From : KDD 95 Proceedings . Copyright © 1995 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Exploiting Visualization in Knowledge Discovery
Hing Yan Lee , Hwee Leng Ong and Lee Hian Quek
Information Technology Institute , National Computer Board email : {hingyan , hweeleng , leehian}@itigovsg
7 1 Science Park Drive , Singapore 05 11
Republic of Singapore
Abstract
Todate visualization has not been extensively harnessed in knowledge discovery in databases ( KDD ) . In this paper , we show that a multidimensional visualization ( MDV ) technique can be used synergistically with a machine learning program like C4.5 to uncover new knowledge . Used together , the two approaches span the KDD spectrum between complete automation on one hand and fully manual on the other . We introduce MDV , its implementation in a tool named WinViz , and show how WinViz supports the various tasks in KDD .
Keywords : dam and knowledge visualization , multidimensional visualization , interactive data exploration
1 . Introduction
The literature reveals several approaches to knowledge discovery in databases ( KDD ) . These can be summarized by the KDD spectrum as follows : At one extreme , complete automation using machine learning to discover knowledge is advocated by one school of thought ( eg , data dredging ) , while at the other extreme , another school favors a dialectic and interactive orientation ( eg , data archaeology ( Bra&man et al . 1992 , Bra&man et al . 1993 , Brachman et In between are machine assisted ( eg , al . 1994) ) . ( Bhandari 1994 ) ) and human assisted knowledge discovery methods . This spectrum can be depicted in Figure 1 .
Data Dredging
MachineAssisted Discovery Method
HumanAssisted Discovery Method
Data Archaelogy rxrrrlrp 1 I~ULY I .
I . t ha rnn I II ” l Y cnapfnlm “ p ” w ” Lull
In practice , the truth lies somewhere along the KDD spectrum and seldom exclusively at the ends . In this paper , we describe an approach that spans between machineassisted and human assisted discovery methods . Our work exploits data visualization and machine learning to harness
198
KDD 95 their respective strengths for KDD . Except for ( Grinstein et al . 1992 ) , the use of visualization technology has largely been ignored in KDD work . We describe a multidimensional visualization ( MDV ) technique that allows a user to visually examine a tabular database and to formulate query interactively and visually . MDV has been realized in a tool named Win& , which a user can use to interactively explore a database and identify patterns and trends hidden in the data . The user can uncover new properties of the data and detect any deviations . We get a picture of ‘what the data is trying to tell us’ the observations can then be rmnfi nrl l$+Te sho?&P ~"IIIUIII~U how WinViz , when integrated with a machine learning component can support KDD . cto+;n+Lo1 iYJL4L,JL‘Vc+I CuKuya,~ . m~.m"+;r\"~l ""IIYL.,ICI"IIcu
,.a;nn "VUlLj onnl.,":"
1.1 Motivation The use of visualization in WinViz for KDD has its motivation from the adage that “ a picture is worth a thousand words . ” Instead of using if then production rules as a knowledge representation formalism , we seek to present the same knowledge visually and graphically . Visualization has been used in a limited extent in several KDD tools . The hope is that patterns and trends can be detected more easily than reading production rules .
1.2 Related Work Projects that have incorporated some form of visualization to aid in KDD include IMACS , MMV , and Netmap . IMACS ( (Bra&man et al . 1992 ) , ( Bra&man et al . 1993 ) , ( Terveen 1993 ) , ( Bra&man et al . 1994 ) ) uses conventional graphs and plots as an interface for the analyst to segment data with mouse clicks , appearing as breaks in a graph to indicate segment boundaries . MVV ( Mihalisin et al . 1991 ) uses bar charts ( histogram within histogram within histogram ) and slider bars ( with horizontal scales ) to locate clusters in multidimensional space that allows the display of multiple views of a given data set . The nested j&gPmms be WLcviz . ( (Davidson 1993 ) , ( Wright 1994 ) ) is a line based visualization tool that uses a circle as the basic graphical device . Its circumference is divided into several groups , one for each attribute of Individuals are represented by nodes within the group . Lines drawn across the circles indicate relationships between subgroups or individuals by linking their nodes . Netmap uses clustering resamhlp . cT __1 _ I _ _ interest . the gc~p
N&q hws drag operation . The workspace region displays the data graphicaiiy . Tile vaiues of each database attribute are represented by rectangles , known as group bars , on a vertical axis in the workspace region . The width of each group bar corresponds to the number of records with the value of the group bar . The height of each group bar is immaterial and has no significance . The total population region displays information with respect to the entire dataset . It changes in values , Thm ntntian rmnin\n armnrr4ino UWW ” Y ” ‘~ Lll ” ~CUCUU 1Y~A ” ll provides statistical information of a group bar that the mouse cursor is pointing at .
Initially , tn thp n~wrv nr ~lmc~c . ” v&II y w&J “ I WIxYVY wLYU*Iu . it is empty . rrec~~I
!O!s! population region
Figure 2 : MDV Display Regions
3 . The KDD Process
The process of KDD can be viewed as an iteration of stages , as depicted in Figure 3 . After the data has been prepared in some appropriate file format and rendered consistent ( eg , removal of noisy data , filling in of missing values , and discarding hopelessly corrupted records ) , trends and patterns can then be generated , from which hypotheses are elicited for interpretation and analysis .
2 . The WinViz Architecture
In this section , we introduce the MDV technique used in WinViz .
2.1 Parallel Coordinates ma one concept 01 me garaiiei coordinates , as originaiiy conceived by Alfred Inselberg ( Inselberg 1987 ) , can be described as follows :
2 ,a
“ A J ” hrrA LW ” a,‘? , o3haon:ra JUbwzJJIVG
*l.n+ 111caL civay
“ In parallel coordinates , the principle coordinate axis are parallel and equidistant to each other . That is , for an N dimensional data set , N vertical axis are placed .Tm 0 ml.B ” ,a “ I , cl puuN7 , unit part from each other . An N dimensional data entry is represented by a broken ( polygonal ) line whose vertices lie on the parallel axis and whose height @ position ) is determined by the entry ’s attributes , ie , first attribute determines the height of the vertex placed on the first vertical axis , etc . A data set , then , is represented by a collection of these polygonal lines ” ( Chomut 1987 ) . the value of the a_ “ I16 nv:n MIJ
,a al=
2.2 MDV ’s Parallel Coordinates The MDV version of the parallel coordinates differs from Inselberg ’s in several aspects : l While the polygonal lines exist , they no longer play a significant role . WinViz supports a polygonal line display toggle whereby the user can select between the choice of having a polygonal line to represent a tuple ( or database record ) or several tuples satisfying the attribute values specified by the user . l Group bars appear in the place of attribute values on each vertical axis . The group bars help to reduce the complexity of lines when the dataset gets too big . l The concept of class is introduced where a class is a .L L CAL J A. me sumei into classes and see how these classes are represented in the dataset and how they relate to other attributes . l Horizontal histograms are provided on the right hand portion of group bars when the data is divided into classes . This allows the user to compare against other attributes .
.__ __ .LZ I J?LL_ __L user
01 mterebt sugecLs
01 me group aara . can
:
2.3 The WinViz Interface h iv ” 4 display b Xyy$ “ ,iZ is divided &go tLmee mant regions : the workspace region , the total population region , and the status region ( see Figure 2 ) . The labels correspond to the attribute names . The initial order in which the attributes appear is dependent only on the order of the attributes in the dataset , ie , the leftmost attribute in the d& g& is the ieftn?r?st aft&ute by the display : The d&piay order can easily be changed , if desired , using a click and
Figure 3 : Knowledge Discovery in Databases Process
3.1 Data Preparation For purpose of illustration , a dataset from the Machine Learning Repository maintained by the University of
Lee
199
California at Irvine is used . This credit screening dataset contains 125 records of past credit applications .
The MDV technique accepts conventional tabular data as input . Each column is treated as an attribute , which can be either discrete or continuous . When the credit screening dataset is loaded into WinViz , the MDV display appears as in Figure 4 .
We can see that there are more successful applicants ( indicated by the width of the group bar GRANTED=Yes ) than rejected ones ( indicated by GRANTED=% ) . The display aiiows us to deduce that most of the credit applicants are in the younger and middle age group ( as indicated by the width of group bars for AGE where the age value increases up the vertical axis ) . In addition , we observe that there are more applicants who are employed versus those jobless ; general distribution of items for which credit is being sought ; and proportion of male and female Immediately upon initial data loading , we applicants . already have an overview of the record distribution visually . The same information is difficult to obtain using other techniques or tools .
Figure 4 : WinViz Display of Credit Screening Dataset
Wry c;dll
SGVGI ill
~UIC;KJ)‘ .
;rlllUIIldllGS
UG S~UllW
2l ~ls111GG ,
^_.^ 1 I:
3.2 Data Cleaning AL , ^^ L Ad 1 _ : ,I AL If a vertical axis has only a single group bar , we essentially have a one value attribute . This is uninteresting for purpose of analysis and can be eliminated by interactively dropping the attribute ; the selected attribute will disappear from the MDV display . If there is more than the expected number of attribute values , it is likely that we have invalid values . For example , instead of the normal two group bars appearing for the SEX attribute with values MALE and FEMALE , we encounter additional group bars labeled A4 , F , m , and f ; this indicates that the noise exists for this attribute . Missing values for an attribute are indicated on the MDV display by an extra group bar is unlabeled ( if it is
200
KDD 95 a blank field in the actual data ) or labeled as ‘?’ ( if it is indicated as such in the actual data ) . nrl auu
3.3 Hypothesis Generation In any analysis , no less in knowledge discovery , the most difficult task is to formulate a hypothesis and see if the dataset substantiates it . Often , this is an iterative process whereby it is necessary to refine and re formulate the hypothesis , eventually either discarding it or having found one that is satisfactory . Where the domain expert is familiar with formulating a hypothesis is somewhat easier than when confronted with a In hypothesis generation , WinViz totally new dataset . supports only in the interactive data exploration and display aspects ( as will be elaborated in the next subsection ) . The user still has to manually formulate a hypothesis . the dataset , the task of
r;nnl YlJUIIl
;m+,mon+&,:+r orl.ron+nnr?la UU ” cuICqpjVY .
+hz , UI 2 mrtxau , “ lry
Tt h. amnoono AC AICUIICIDJLG
To alleviate this shortcoming in WinViz , we have integrated the C4.5 machine learning program ( Quinlan 1993 ) so that if then production rules generated by the latter can be visualized on the former . This integration has ‘xr‘mal ~U ” “ IUI representation of WinViz on one hand . On the other hand , it exploits the generalization capability of C45 Thus , induced knowledge is provided as shortlisted hypotheses , which can then be stepped through and visualized on MDV . Rules can be visualized one at a time . Alternatively , all the rules for a decision class can be viewed together . In the second case , the conditions of each rule of the selected decision class are “ transferred ” onto MDV one by one , with outliers of that class becoming apparent . An outlier is : l one that satisfies the conditions of the rules of the selected decision class , but does not belong to that class ; or l one that belongs to the decision class , but does not satisfy the conditions of the rules of that class .
In Figure 5 , the first rule ( generated by selecting all the attributes except GRANTED which is the decision class ) has been selected for display on MDV . The hatched boxes represent the conditions of the rules . We observe that there are 13 records that satisfy the rule ( as shown in the third box in the status region ) . Polygonal lines shaded according to the classes are displayed . Of these only 12 records belong to the class GRANTED=Yes ( this is obtained by moving the mouse cursor to this group bar and getting the statistic from the status region ) while the remaining case belong to class GRANTED=No ( as evident by the colored polygonal line intersecting GRANTED=No ) . We observe that for this exception case , the applicant is unemployed and female ( as evident by the colored polygonal line intersecting JOBLESS=Yes and GRANTED=No and SEX=Female ) . to non jobless applicants ( Figure 6 ) . A hatched patch appears around the group bar indicating the query condition chosen .
Figure 6 : Query on Applicants who are Employed normalized mode
Such a query causes the group bars for the all other attributes to become partially shaded indicating the number of records satisfying the current query . In the normalized mode , the sizes of all the group bars are the same and the shading in each group bar corresponds to the percentage of records satisfying the query within the group . In this case , we observe that 97.65 % ( as shown in the third box of the status region of Figure 6 ) of successful applicants have inhs . a , requirement for credit approval . emnlovment = , indicatine a
WinViz allows one to formulate simple AND and OR type queries . AND conditions are permitted across different attributes while OR conditions are allowed across the values of an attribute . For example , Figure 7 shows a query ( GRANTED=Yes ) AND ( BOUGHT=medinstr OR The hatched patches indicate the BOUGHT=jewel ) . conditions A more comprehensive discourse of the WinViz query mechanism is described in ( Lee et al . 1995 ) . that have been specified . inpxbnt that is an
Lee
201 linm reoinn ‘b ” .’ int~m~rtina
3.4 Interpretation & Analysis This stage comprises examining the hypothesis , viewing to see whether the data supports it , refining the hypothesis by querying the dataset , segmenting it where necessary , and generally making sense of what the data says . 341 Viewing Data . An individual record in the dataset can be represented by a polygonal line that intersect all the vertical axes at the coordinate points ( or group bar values ) . This display mechanism allows the user to identify critical regions of interest indicated by the cluttering of polygonal If the display of the entire dataset shows a large lines . nmnhm the AGE s ~prtain nf “ L 1UAWY LL’WXYIIYlb . “ “ a llcull ” “ l attribute , it may be a potential region of interest which the user can zoom in to ‘drill down’ into the data further . However , as lines can get quite cluttered as the database gets bigger , the group bar display becomes useful to determine the critical areas of interest . 342 Querying Data The MDV display interface of multidimensional data is also the query interface . WmViz is in query mode when the mouse cursor changes from being an arrow to being a question mark as the cursor is moved near any attribute axis . A user can formulate a query interactively using a point and click metaphor . There is no need to learn any arcane command based query language . In SQL , the result of a query is a relation . In WinViz , query results can be visualized by observing the shaded group bars or the polygonal lines . nf .,a .A* A I
A visual query in WinViz is specified by clicking the group bars corresponding to the conditions used in the query . For example , clicking the mouse cursor over the group bar where JOBLESS=No selects all records relating the longer darker boxes than the lighter boxes along the attribute , BOUGHT . We also observe that although the number of males and females are about the same ( as indicated by the widths of the group bars on tbe left of the axis for SEX ) , males are more successful at getting credit approvals ( as evident by the longer darker box on the right of the axis at SEX=Male ) .
,,. , ,
., , ,
Figure 8 : Classification by Credit Approvals
344 Other KDD Support Operators WinViz additionally provides several operations in support of knowledge discovery ; they include : a . It is unnecessary to load all the attributes for a dataset into MDV at the same time . After all , the human mind is limited in its ability to handle too many attributes and their relationships at any instant . Studies ( eg , ( Miller 1956 ) ) have shown that the magic number is 7 , plus or minus 2 . We can therefore reasonably expect a user to select between 5 and 9 attributes for analysis . Conceptually , there is no limit on the number of attributes that can be displayed on MDV ; rather the physical screen size will force the display to be squeezed and hence may appear very small . b . The order of attribute display may be changed by using a click and drag on the attribute label to its intended position on the MDV display . This is useful when the placement of related attributes close together facilitates analysis . c . Upon data loading , the MDV display is initially in the unnormalized mode . The relationship among the group bars can also be viewed through normalization , in which all the group bars are forced to the same width but the shadings are adjusted accordingly to reflect percentage . In this way , a particular trend such as , increasing percentage as an attribute value increase , could be easily seen .
Figure 7 : Making Queries on WinViz
343 Segmenting Data A dataset can be segmented in two ways to facilitate analysis : vertically and/or horizontally . A vertical subset can be created interactively by selecting attributes to be included or excluded from the analysis . Attributes that are added appear on the MDV display while those that are dropped disappear on the fly .
Horizontal segments can be created by discretization of numeric attribute and by defining classes . For the convenience of analysis , it is often useful to refer to a range of numeric values as a group . In the credit screening dataset , AGE is a numeric attribute that , for the purpose of the analysis , can be splitted into several groups such as young adults , adults , and senior citizens , with each associated with a specific age range . Very often such ranges are domain sensitive . In WinViz , this discretization function can be achieved easily and interactively by a feature called partitioning . For example , attribute AGE can be split into five subgroups each represented by a group bar . The AGE attribute axis now has only five group bars instead of the previous forty three in Figure 7 .
In addition to merely grouping numeric attributes , WinViz also supports the creation of groups , more precisely called classes , based on several attributes . Exploring potential correlations among attributes is supported by allowing the user to interactively classify subjects of interest and see how these classes are represented in the database . For example , we may try to coneiate credit approvai Wan other a~ibutes by color coding the applicants according to credit approvals and rejections .
In Figure 8 , two classes are formed for GRANTED=Yes ( represented by darker boxes on the right of the axis ) and GRANTED=No ( represented by lighted boxes on the right of the axis ) . For all types of items bought except bikes , the chances of getting a credit approval is higher , evident by
202
KDD 95
4 . Status & Future Directions
WinViz has been implemented in C++ for the Microsoft Windows platform on the PC . It currently supports and accepts data using dBase ( dbf ) tile format , Lotus l 2 3 spreadsheet file format , and IBI Hold file format . To handle very large databases , a client server version of WinViz is also being developed to provide ODBC support and to download computation to the server .
5 . Conclusion
We have presented a system that integrates multidimensional visualization , exemplified by MDV in WinViz , and machine learning , through using C45 Such a system harnesses the respective strengths of the two technologies to provide support for interactive data exploration and knowledge discovery . Acknowledgments the MDV technique and the WinViz software have been the work of many talented individuals whose contributions are gratefully noted ; they include ( in alphabetical order ) Chan , S . K . , Eickemeyer , J . S . , Quek , C . Y . , Sodhi , K . S . , Toh , E . W . , and Yit , L . L .
The development of
References Bhandari , I . 1994 . Attribute Focusing : Machine Assisted Knowledge Discovery Applied to Software Production Process Control . ln Proceedings of AAAI 93 Knowledge Discovery in Databases Wkshp , Seattle , WA . Bra&man , RJ , Selfridge , PG , Terveen , LG , Altman , B . , Borgida , A . , Halper , F . , Kirk , T . , Lazar , A . , McGuinness , DL , and Resnick , LA Nov 1992 . Knowledge Representation Support for Data Archaeology . In Proceedings of the Intl . Conf . on Information & Knowledge Management ( CIKM ‘92 ) , Baltimore , MD , pp 457 464 . Bra&man , RJ , Selfiidge , PG , Terveen , LG , Altman , B . , Borgida , A . , Halper , F . , Kirk , T . , Lazar , A . , McGuinness , DL , and Resnick , LA 1993 . Integrated Support for Data Archaeology . Id . Journal of Intelligent & Cooperative Information Systems . Brachman , RJ , Selfiidge , PG , Terveen , LG , Altman , B . , Borgida , A . , Halper , F . , Kirk , T . , Lazar , A . , McGuinness , DL , and Resnick , LA Aug 1994 . Integrated Support for Data Archaeology . In Proceedings of the Proc . AAAI 93 Knowledge Discovery in Databases Wkshp , Seattle , WA . Chomut , T . 1987 . Exploratory Data Analysis Using Parallel Coordinates , MSc Thesis , UCLA Computer Science Dept . , IBM LA SC . Cen . Rep . No . 1987 2811 , . Davidson , C . 9 Jan 1993 . What Your Database Hides Away . New Scientist , pp 28 3 1 . Grinstein , G . , Sieg , J . , Smith , S . , and Williams , M . Sep 1992 . Visualization for Knowledge Discovery . Intl . Journal of Intelligent Systems , Vol . No . 7 , pp 637 648 .
Inselberg , A . , and Dimsdale , B . 1987 . Parallel Coordinates for Visualizing Multi Dimensional Geometry . In Proceedings of the Computer Graphics Intl . Conf . Lee , H . Y . , Ong , H . L . , Toh , E . W . , and Chan , S . K . , 1995 . A Multi Dimensional Data Visualization Tool for Knowledge Discovery in Databases . Forthcoming . Mihalisin , T . , Timlim , J . , and Schwegler , J . 1991 . Visualization and Analysis of Multi Variate Data : A Technique for All Fields . In Proceedings of Visualization ‘91 . Miller , GA Mar 1956 . The Magical Number Seven , Plus or Minus Two : Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information , Psychological Review , Vol . 63 , pp . 81 97 . Quinlan , R . J . 1993 . C4.5 : Machine Learning Programs . Morgan Kauflnann Publishers . Terveen , LG 1993 . Archaeology . In Proceedings of Information & Knowledge Management ( CIKM ‘93 ) . Wright , M . 1994 . Drilling for Data , InterCity , pp 38 . for Data Intl . Conf . on
Interface Support the
Lee
203
