From : KDD 95 Proceedings . Copyright © 1995 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Available Technology for Discovering Causal Models , Building Bayes
Nets , and Selecting Predictors : The TETRAD
II Program
Clark Glymour
Department of Philosophy Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh PA . 15215 cg09@andrewcmuedu
Abstract for discovering
This paper describes the facilities available for knowledge discovery in databases using the TETRAD II program . While a year or two shy of state of the most advanced research on discovery , we believe this program provides the most flexible and reliable suite of procedures so far availabIe commercially causal structure , semiautomatically constructing Bayes networks , estimating ~nmmntnrr in cwk n‘akmrb . nnrl ,*nAa+;nn l h , . ntrrnrsm lrnn ~SuauIIWLY YL U ” “ , . ,C ” “ APIY , YXLU “ yvU~ “ qj . I ” ya ” ~‘cu ” YUll also be used to red&e the number of variables needed for classification or prediction , for example as a neural net preproceesor . The theoretical principles on which the program is based are described in detail in Spirtes , Glymour and Scheines ( 1993 ) . Under assumptions described there , each of the search and discovery procedures we will describe have been proved to give correct information when statistical decisions are made correctly.’
1 . What Does TETRAD Do ? This paper describes the facilities available for howledge discovery in databases using the TETRAD II program . While a year or two shy of state of the most advanced research on discovery , we believe this program provides the most flexible and reliable suite of procedures so far available commercially for discovering causal structure , semiautomatically constructing Bayes networks , estimating parameters in such networks , and updating . The theoretical principles on which the program is based are described in detail in Spirtes , Glymour and Scheines ( 1993 ) . Under assumptions described there , each of the search and discovery procedures we will describe have been proved to give correct information when statistical decisions about independence and conditional independence
’ Research supported by the Navy Office of Personnel Research and Development , and the Office of Naval Research , contract N00014 93 1 0568 . This work is a collaboration with C . Meek , R . Scheines and P . Spirtes .
130
KDD 95 have correct outcomes correct in the population distribution . Each of the procedures has also been extensively tested on simulated data samples of realistic sizes .The program includes : l A module ( BUILD ) that combine the user ’s lolowledge about the system under study with principles for extracting causal structure from statistical patterns for data sets with continuous variables , or for data sets with disaete variables . The procedure contains a switch that permits the user to assume , or not , that no latent variables are present . l Functions that indicate when two or more measuced variables may all be influenced by an unmeasured common cause . l A module ( ESTIMATE ) that gives maximum likelihood estimates for parameters in statistical models describing influences between measured discrete variables . With discrete data and a little help from the user , BUILD and ESTIMATE will construct a fully parameterized Bayes network for a domain . A module ( UPDATE ) fully parameterized Bayes network to make predictions about any of the properties of a new unit or example from information about some of the properties in that unit . l A module ( PURIFY ) that takes a raw data or a covariance matrix for normally distributed variables the user assumes to have at least one unmeasured common cause and finds a subset of variables that have exactly one unmeasured common cause and no other causal relations with one another . that determines structural l A Module ( MlMbuild ) dependencies among latent variables given correlational d&& a.tl_ nwified meanm3ment mnMn . __ _ _ __ . l A module that prepares input files for other estimation and testing packages ( EQS , LISREL , CALIS ) for linear models . that updates a l
~
___ _ l A module ( MONTE ) that allows the user to generate simulated data for a wide variety of causal models . The TETRAD II program does not do routine data cleanup task checks for outliers , variable transformations to approximate normal distributions , etc . Neither does it do model diagnostics of the kind performed by many readily available statistical packages such as MINITAB , S AS , BMDP or SYSTAT . We recommend that where possible checks and adjustments of the data be carried out frst by one of these systems prior to a TETRAD II analysis . The Tl7l D nf ILjLl“ 1 linear “ structural equation models ” or provide tests of significance for such models , since these procedures are carried out by a number of commercial packages such as CALIS , LISREL and EQS . thm v.nmmn~nrc LI1U pcuaJtww.u
TT r\mnmm 11 ~‘ “ ~‘cu ” pir+kmtc . WU‘l‘cLCcr r 7 c U D
An nr\+ ll ” L
2 . Graphical Models . Many statistical models that are given by equations and distribution assumptions can be described more vividly but equally precisely by simple directed graphs . A directed edge X > Y indicates both that X influences Y and that Y is a function of at least X . For example , suppose we consider a regression model for Y with regressors Xl,,X4 The model might be given by an equation
~~~~ and a distribution claim : all variables are jointly normally distributed , each variable in the set {Xl , , X4 , E} is independent of the other variables in the set and E has mean zero . The statistical model has a number of firee .~ LlA A L dL c’ l L AL_ ICdC FL . parameters cnilI mubt DC : esumdwu rnoy include the numerical values of the coefficients , al , q , etc . , the variance of E and the means and variances of Xl,,X4 We could equally describe the model by saying that the variables are jointly normal and giving the picture : udtd .
UIC : mm
Figure 1
The equations can be easily recovered from the picture by writing each variable as a linear function of the variables with edges directed into it . In this case Y is the only variable with any edge into it . The picture is always understood to the hypothesis of statistical imply by a sequence of independence for any pair of variables , such as Xl d X2 , or X3 and E , that are not connected directed edges from one to the other , or by two sequences of directed edges from some third variable that is a common cause of both . The numerical values of linear coefficients such as al are not specified in the diagram , just as they are not specified in the equation . For brevity “ error terms ” such as E are often omitted in the diagram , but they are meant to be added if the diagram is translated into a set of equations . The pictorial representation can be Iii ih& exm& ‘@ hclude wuT,m& conpiion ( %aus(aas case we adopt the common convention of writing the measured variables inside rectangles and unmeasured variables ( except error terms ) inside ovals .
Diagrams can also represent causal and statistical hypotheses among discrete variables . Suppose , for example , that in figure 1 the variables are discrete . Then the statistical hypothesis represented by the diagram is that the joint probability distribution is equal to the conditional distribution of Y on the other six variables , multiplied by the marginal distributions of each of those six . That is :
P(Y,Xl , x2 , x3 , X4,X5,& ) = P(YIXl,X2,X3,X4,X5 , E ) X P(X~)P(X~)P(X~)P(X~)P(X~)P(E )
In the computer science literature graphical models that represent a factorization of the probabilities for discrete variables are usually called “ Bayes networks . ”
3 . Applications . influences
Selection of Causal Regressors . Many empirical investigations attempt to judge how much one or more variables influence an outcome of interest , for example , recruitment or how much advertising influences purchases of a product . Multiple linear and non linear regression are the methods most commonly used to make these decisions . The results of a regression can , however , be misleading if some of the regressors are not causes of the outcome variable . A number of techniques are available in commercial packages for selecting a set of regressors from a larger set of variables . Unfortunately , unless the investigator knows beforehand a great deal about the causal relations among the potential regressors , these techniques a~ unreliable means to determine which variables are actually direct causes of the outcome variable , and regression itself is unreliable in determining the importance of causal influence , no matter how large or representative the sample . TETRAD II can
Glymour
131 be used to help select direct causes of an outcome variable more reliably .
In data on naval air traffic controller training we analyzed for the Navy Personnel Research and Development Center , trainees were given a battery of tests , and scores on several of these batteries were combined into an “ AFQT ” score . We obtained data that included the AFQT scores and a battery of test scores , including three test scores arithmetic reasoning ( AR ) , numerical operations ( NO ) , and word knowledge @‘X) that are components of the AFQT score and four others that are not electronics information ( EI ) , general science ( GS ) , mechanical comprehension ( MC ) and mathematical knowledge ( MK ) . ACAT nnt ruyc ll ” C included in our data set . A true ( but incomplete ) account of the dependencies in this data is then : r~nmv.nnontr b ” ,r#y ” rw,rw ewwmA IIIclaJLubu
,~,a VVCIIC , that CIIctC r\ehor “ LIIkA hnc . ,,a3
AR
NO
WK there am also In fact , there is good reason to think unrecorded common causes at work these relating variables with others included in AFQT . For the actual sample data , an ordimuy linear regression of AFQT against all of the variables gave significant values for all but two of the coefficients . Given the prior information that the other variables cannot be effects of AFQT , the TETRAD the exact latent variables switch ) determine correctly that among the seven tests , only AR , NO and WK are components of the AFQT . When we fust conducted this analysis we had been misinformed that all seven variables are components of AFQT , and the correct answer was thus found without prior knowledge .
II procedures ( BUILD with
Sometimes when we are trying to understand the causes of a variable of interest , or to predict how to manipulate that variable , we may , without knowing it , measure , P ~1~ c rl eJJeca ol me v#av,e we wislj ‘@ exp’&l a2d prp&i . hi such cases regression methods may be badly misleading . In many cases of this kind , the TETRAD II procedures can sometimes help . Consider the following diagram :
132
KDD 95
Figure 3
Suppose the task is to fmd from among Xl,,X5 , those variables that actually influence Y directly , and the figure represents the true but unknown structure . If Y is some characteristic we want to change in a population , and the Xs represent variables we think we can manipulate , then we want to find out which of the Xs actually influence Y . We can fmd linear systems with this causal structure aud also systems in which the variables are discrete . In the linear case , for almost any values of the linear coefficients and variances , linear regression will give us false results . Even with population correlations , linear regression will tell us incorrectly that Xl , X2 , X3 , and X5 have significant regression coefficients , and methods for selecting subsets of regressors do no better . Given population data , the Build procedure in TETRAD II will correctlv identifv XI and X5 as the onlv nossible causes of Y among the five X variables . For discrete variables logistic regression meets with similar problems . Twenty data sets were generated by C . Meek using Monte Carlo methods from the model in figure 3 , each with a sample size of 5,000 . The variables and the disturbance with distributed normally and the linear coefftcients were generated randomly for each sample . In all 20 data sets a straightforward the coefficients for Xl , X2 , X3 , and X5 am significant . Regression selector packages did even worse . In all 20 cases , best subsets ( Mallows CP and Adjusted R2 ) and stepwise procedures picked either all five X variables or omitted only X4 . In all twenty cases , by contrast , the Build procedure in TETRAD II correctly identilied only Xl , X3 , and X5 as adjacent to Y , and for 94 % of the adjacencies the procedure found the causal order correctly as well . regression
4 r ~ ~ inferred linear that
The same regression mistakes would occur if in figure 3 X3 and Y were connected by an unmeasured common FOI.EP 77;l R TWO ” , LYLLW correct information in such a case .
11 wmlA LI W ” U ” in tha 111 Urn ”
ZQ~P Ycull ”
,,a , “ UJ , wwl ULlU
An n;.m 5 ” ” flor Discrete or Causal Models Bayes Networks . Many variables of interest are better measured by categories than by a real variable , and the properties of models of discrete variables have been extensively studied in the last twenty years . Just as with
Variables , linear models , one of the common uses of models for discrete variables is to attempt to represent and quantify causal dependencies .
The diagram in figure 4 below , called the ALARM network , was developed for use as an emergency medical system ( Beinlich , et al . 1989 ) . The variables am all discrete , taking 2 , 3 or 4 distinct values . In most instances a d&ted arrow indicates that one variable is regardedas a cause of another . The physicians who built the network also assigned it a probability distribution : each variable V is given a probability distribution rnnrlitinnsll V ” ,nCYU ” .ICY having edges directed into V . nf the “ S U . ”
VW tnr 7 L ” . valn~c . WV ” pm h “ ss , ye$$eg nn “ 1 . nf “ I
Figure 4 including
II program recreates almost all of information about
The directed graph has 37 variables and 46 edges . Herskovitz and Cooper ( 1990 ) used the diagram to generate simulated emergency medicine statistics for 20,000 individuals . From half or even a tenth of the data , the TETRAD the ALARM network , the directions of the edges . Depending on sample size , the program makes two or three errors in identifying edges and four or five errors in determining the directions of influence . Given the data and a causal diagram , the Estimate module of the TETRAD II program will provide a maximum likelihood estimate ( assuming a multinomial distribution ) for any Bayes network without cycles or latent variables .
.
.& a
F , I ” 1
*lc l.IlG l.nnr\ “ cell domam , l:1t “ UUL
. Al1:+zc~
. yl ” “ a ” ‘LluGa
The UPDATE Module . Suppose a Bayes network hnn llaa associated with the network have been estimated . The network can function as an “ expert system ” that will make predictions for new units in the population . Given the measured values of one or more variables for a new unit ( for example , a new patient ) the program will use the Bayes’ network to compute the new probabilities for values of any other variables for that unit . Thus with the ALARM network , if the program is given values for the variables attached to some of the nodes , it will compute a new set of probabilities for the values of any other node in the network .
Causal
Involving
Relations
Finding Unmeasured Variables . Unmeasured variables are important in two roles . On the one hand , they may be responsible for statistical associations among measured variables , and we must then correctly recognize the latent structure if we am to predict the results of policies or interventions . Uniquely , II program contains an asymptotically correct pmcedme for this problem . the TETRAD
Figure 5
Given large sample data for the variables shown in rectangles but not for the variables in ovals in figure 5 , the BUILD procedure will reconstruct the graph shown , but with double headed arrows indicating the iatent variables , and leaving uncertain whether income and parent ’s smoking habits are respectively related to smoking by unmeasured common causes .
On the other hand , in many cases the variables we measure are only indicators of the variables that are of interest . That is typically the case in personnel studies , psychometric studies , sociomeuic studies , and many other cases . Often the data are from questionnaires or other sources for which the investigator has a fairly clear idea as to which sets of measured variables form clusters that indicate the same unmeasured causal factor . The investigator may be fairly confident , for example , that a certain collection of items are all affected by a particular personality factor , that another collection is affected by perceived economic opportunity , and so on . But how am the influences of the unmeasured variables on one another , or on other behavioral variables , to be estimated ? Under the assumptions of linearity . normality , and two
Glymour
133
.
Given the clusters in figure 8 and the original data , the \ “ \ ” program men returns the correct information nu~ouuo about the unmeasured variables , shown in figure 9 .
. . , the causal relations among
I
Originally Specified
Measurement Model
El1
42
E13
E14 %5 tt+++
'16
&I9
%?O
46 47 ttttt assumptions characteristic of graphical models ( see n . .~ aplrres , et ai . , i993 for detaiisj , when the sample is ‘kirge enough that cortxct ( in the population distribution ) statistical decisions are made , the PURIFY and MIMbuild modules of TETRAD II will provably give reliable information about the connections among the unmeasured variables provided is given correct the program
:,c, & : , lllL ” llll&lu ” ll l Y,*h , l.qgxKx as
^I iw
CA L ”
. hLl WIULII
. . . . “ aluuJIciJ
zhl~ ”
,l “ , , l.x ” 3LCI indicators of a common unmeasured latent variable . The procedure will work when some of the indicators of one latent variable are also affected by other latent variables , and even when some of the measured variables directly influence one another . Parts of the procedure have been used successfully on real data by Steve Sorenson and his associates at the Navy Personnel Research and nwdnnmmt Y ” . “ I ” ynwC CaSe .
Ppntm WP grill . nz “ “ nWn dth A*,& u “ Y,.U a ~imdmwl ilhrcfratn lll ” “ YuI ”
I , ”
From the linear structure given by the diagram in figure 6 a sample of 2,000 units of the measured variables was generated by the Monte Carlo module of the TETIUD II r&eons = ~ nrnmam . that confound the original clustering of the measured variables : r r~resent
&mows
I The thicker cau=J ttttt
&6
& I
E9
E9 eiO
Figure 7
Largest Pure Measurement Model
True Structure
El1
El2
El3
84
E15
E16 cl7
'18 fi9 @O
Figure 6 the clusterings of
The data for the measured variables was then given to the PURIFY module , along with the measured variables shown in figure 7 . For each cluster , TETRAD II automatically finds a sub collection of measured variables that are not affected by the latent variables of other clusters or by other measunxl variables . The output of PURIFY is shown in figure 8 .
134
KDD 95
Figure 8
Causal Structure
Among the Latents
Figure 9
Selection of Prediction Variables . Given a set S of variables and a variable Y one wishes to predict from S , it is often important in applications to minimize the illustrate the use of neural nets number of variables in S needed for prediction . The Build procedure excludes variables by finding a subset of S condiitonal on which all other variables in S are independent of Y . For example , Neuralwate divides Fisher ’s well known Iris data into a training and test set in a simple to classification problem in which variety Y to be predicted from a set S of four features of flowers . BUILD identifies two of the four variables that suffice for predicting Iris type . When the same Neuralwam pmcedum is applied using only these two variables as predictors , the resulting network misclassifies only a single extra case than does the original larger network , which made a single error in 75 test cases . is
Researchers in a number of areas have begun to make use to TETRAD II procedures . The program has been used to develop models of plant metabolism , to study job satisfaction , to develop scales of pain and grief , to detect leakage in frequency channels in devices for measuring sound , to locate structural defects in satellites , to study evoked response potentials , in universities , pneumonia triage , and in other applications . retention student
References :
Beinlich , I . , Suermondt , H . , Chavez , R . , and Cooper , G . ( 1989 ) . The ALARM monitoring system : A case study with two probabilistic inference techniques for belief networks . ProcSecond European Conference on Artiicial Intelligence in Medicine , London , England . 247 256 .
Cooper , G . and Herskovitz , E . ( 1992 ) . A Bayesian method for the induction of probabilistic networks from data . Machine Learning .
P . Spirtes , C . Glymour and R . Scheines , 1993 , Causation , Prediction and Search , Springer Verlag Lecture Notes in Statistics .
R . Scheines , P . Spirtes , C . Glymour and C . Meek , TETRAD II , Lawrence Erlbaum , 1995 .
Glymour
135
