2012 IEEE 12th International Conference on Data Mining 2012 IEEE 12th International Conference on Data Mining
Towards Annotating Media Contents through Social Diffusion Analysis
Tong Xu1 , Dong Liu2 , Enhong Chen1 , Huanhuan Cao2 , Jilei Tian2
1School of Computer Science and Technology , University of Science and Technology of China tongxu@mailustceducn , cheneh@ustceducn
2Nokia Research Center , Beijing , China dongeliu@gmailcom , happiacao@gmailcom , jileitian@nokiacom
Abstract—Recently , the boom of media contents on the Internet raises challenges in managing them effectively and thus requires automatic media annotation techniques . Motivated by the observation that media contents are usually shared frequently in online communities and thus have a lot of social diffusion records , we propose a novel media annotating approach depending on these social diffusion records instead of metadata . The basic assumption is that the social diffusion records reflect the common interests ( CI ) between users , which can be analyzed for generating annotations . With this assumption , we present a novel CI based social diffusion model and translate the automatic annotating task into the CI based diffusion maximization ( CIDM ) problem . Moreover , we propose to solve the CIDM problem through two optimization tasks , corresponding to the training and test stages in supervised learning . Extensive experiments on realworld data sets show that our approach can effectively generate high quality annotations , and thus demonstrate the capability of social diffusion analysis in annotating media .
Keywords Automatic annotation ; common interests ; diffusion maximization ; social diffusion ; social media .
I . INTRODUCTION
Recent years have witnessed the boom of media contents on the Internet . On one hand , traditional media , like television or newspapers are accelerating digitized . On the other hand , thanks to the emergence of Web 2.0 , various social media applications “ allow the creation and exchange of user generated content ” [ 6 ] . Those huge amount of media contents raise significant challenges for efficient management and retrieval , eg keyword based search on non textual contents . Thus , automatic media annotation techniques are required . In this case , the annotation set is predefined by the content manager as system level annotations , which target on describing the general properties of media contents .
From the machine learning perspective , the system level automatic annotation can be casted as a ( supervised ) multilabel classification problem . In the literature , there are several sources to be used for automatic annotating . First , the metadata , usually provided by the publishers , is valuable , but “ user generated contents ” often lack high quality metadata . Second , the textual context , such as the title , description and comments . However , the context may not directly relate to the media , and even unavailable in some cases . Third , the personalized tags given by end users could be analyzed , but the ambiguity and irrelevance of personalized tags may influence the results [ 4 ] , and also , processing the tags is not
1550 4786/12 $26.00 © 2012 IEEE 1550 4786/12 $26.00 © 2012 IEEE DOI 101109/ICDM201223 DOI 101109/ICDM201223
1158 697 a easy work due to problems like cross language translation [ 11 ] . Last but not least , some works learn annotations from the characteristics of the media content itself , eg lowlevel image/video features [ 12 ] . However , feature extraction from multimedia is computationally expensive and the learning effectiveness is restricted due to the gap between lowlevel features and high level semantic annotations .
A distinct property of user generated media contents is that many of them are frequently shared in online communities such as social network services ( SNS ) , which leading to a lot of social diffusion records . With this observation , in this paper , we propose a novel media annotation approach that adopts mining the social diffusion records , which are on hand or can be easily extracted from the web log of social network services . Our basic idea is motivated by a common phenomenon in our daily life that the diffusion of media contents usually reflects the common interests between sharers as well as the property of shared media . Researches have indicated that , on one hand , users tend to rely on their friends as “ collector ” and “ filter ” of interesting information rather than the other sources like system recommendations [ 10 ] ; on the other hand , users with similar interests tend to build more tight social relationships , even constitute social communities , which in turn strengthens the influence from friend to friend [ 9 ] .
Thus , we propose to use the common interests ( CI ) between users as the intermediate when learning social diffusion records to annotate . Note that common interests can be discovered from the media contents that users have shared . The more sharing concerns the same category , the stronger “ common interest ” is obvious . Reversely , users’ sharing behaviors indicate that the shared media content meets their common interests . In order to describe such relationship , we present a novel Common interest based ( CIbased ) diffusion model . With this model , we need to solve two problems . First , how to learn the parameters to describe common interests . Second , how to use the model to annotate media contents . In this paper , borrowing the idea from traditional social diffusion analysis , we translate these problems into two optimization tasks , known as the CI based Diffusion Maximization ( CIDM ) problem . For the model building , a diffusion maximization problem is formulated based on the set of annotated media contents with social diffusion records , and then solved to learn the “ common interests ” .
For the annotation , another diffusion maximization problem is formulated for the set of media contents to be annotated , and then solved to get the annotations . We conduct extensive experiments on several data sets and the experimental results clearly show that our approach can effectively generate high quality annotations for shared media contents , and thus demonstrate the capability of social diffusion analysis on media annotation .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows . Section II describes our proposed CI based diffusion model , and mathematically presents the CIDM problem . Followed in Section III , we present how to solve the two optimization tasks of the CIDM problem , respectively . Section IV presents the experimental results to validate the effectiveness of our approach . Section V discusses some related work , and finally , section VI concludes this paper .
II . ANNOTATING MEDIA CONTENTS THROUGH CIDM In this section , we will first introduce the CI based diffusion model and then discuss how to annotate media contents through the common interest based diffusion maximization . And finally , we formally propose the formulation of the CIDM problem as two optimization tasks .
A . CI based Diffusion Model
Social diffusion models are usually adopted to analyze the spread of information in social networks , eg the diffusion of media contents . A social network is depicted by a graph G = .V , Efi , where V is a set of nodes representing users , and E includes the edges or links between users . Each edge {esr|us , ur ∈ V } is augmented with a weight wsr , which measures the probability of diffusion from us to ur . On this graph , social diffusion can be simulated as stochastic processes . At any time , nodes are either active , which means they have the information , or inactive . Active nodes will propagate the information to their inactive neighbors with the probabilities defined on the corresponding edges . At the beginning of the process , some nodes have the information and these are known as “ seed ” nodes , ie activated initially . As time unfolds , more and more nodes become active .
As discussed in Section I , the diffusion of media contents between users indicates that the content more or less meets the common interests between users . Therefore , in our adapted common interest based diffusion model , W = {wsr} , the edge weights in the graph G , will vary for different contents , and will relate to the “ common interest ” parameters . Let Ti denote the set of annotations for the item i , Ti ⊂ T , where T is the complete set of pre defined annotations . And C = {csr|us , ur ∈ V } denote the common interest parameters between pairs of users . Note that in this assumption , common interests are independently considered for each pair of users , and independent from different items . We assume wi sr ( the superscript i indicates wsr depends on sr ≈ corr(Ti , csr ) the item i ) can be approximated by wi
6981159
( T ∗ i , C∗
) = arg max ( Ti,C )
P ( Gi|Ti , C ) ,
( 1 ) where corr( ) denotes a correlation function between the item properties and the common interests . Details of the correlation function will be discussed in Section III B . B . CIDM based Media Annotation
Now let us turn to the social diffusion records of media contents . Still using the graph model , for the item i , its diffusion records can be summarized as one graph Gi = .Vi , Eifi . Here Vi consists of the users who viewed the item , and Ei depicts how the item was diffused . Note that the edges in Ei indeed represent historical behaviors rather than “ potential links ” , thus edges are directed and no circle exists , ie it is a directed acyclic graph ( DAG ) .
As mentioned in Section II A , social diffusion can be simulated as stochastic processes on a general social graph ; Therefore , we try to “ reproduce ” the Gi ’s by social diffusion , rather than to predict how the diffusion may happen . Using our common interest based diffusion model , where Ti and C are parameters , we can mathematically present the “ reproducing ” problem as follows : given the diffusion graph Gi , how to find out the proper C and Ti , so that Gi has the maximum likelihood , ie where P ( Gi|Ti , C ) can be represented as P ( .Vi , Eifi|Ti , C ) . We further propose to run the social diffusion simulation only on the graph Gi , ie diffusion may happen only on the fixed edges in Ei . This way , Ei is embedded into the diffusion processes . Thus , max P ( Gi|Ti , C ) can be simplified as max P ( Vi|Ti , C ) , while the latter is virtually the traditional diffusion maximization task on the nodes Vi . Should be noted that “ seed ” nodes are no longer free variables here , while P ( Vi ) indeed relies on three factors : Gi , Ti , and C|Ei denoting part of the common interest parameters C that are relevant to the edges in Ei . C . CIDM Problem Formulation
We cast the automatic annotating task as a supervised learning problem and divide the CIDM problem into two optimization tasks , which correspond to the training and test stages in a typical supervised learning problem , respectively . For simplicity , the target function of the CIDM problem , ie the maximum expected diffusion , is denoted as max D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) .
Problem Formulation : 1 ) Training Stage – given a set of annotated media contents and their social diffusion graphs , ie , a set of .Gi , Tifi which denotes the diffusion graph and annotations for item i , where Gi = .Vi , Eifi , and i ∈ Ia is a training the problem is how to find a common interest sample , parameter set C∗ so as to maximize the diffusion of training samples , which can be formulated as follows : D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) .
= arg max
C∗
.
( 2 )
C i∈Ia
2 ) Test Stage – given a set of media contents to be annotated , and their social diffusion graphs {Gi} where i ∈ Iu is an item to be annotated , and C|Ei learnt from the training stage , the problem is how to find an annotation set Ti for each item i to maximize the likelihood of Gi , which can be formulated as follows :
T ∗ i = arg max
Ti
D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) , ∀i ∈ Iu .
( 3 )
Indeed , both training and test stages utilize our CI based diffusion model , but the optimization objectives and the control variables are different . In the training stage , we regard the common interest parameters C as the control variables to maximize the expected diffusion , and during this process , the proper C∗ will be learnt . In the test stage , we utilize the common interests learnt during the training stage , and regard the annotations Ti as control variables to maximize the expected diffusion , then the solution T ∗ that leads to the maximum diffusion is the answer for annotation . i
III . CI BASED DIFFUSION MAXIMIZATION
In our approach , both the optimization tasks in the training and test stages are dependent on common interest based diffusion simulation . In this section , we first explain how to simulate CI based diffusion , and then introduce the details of the two optimization tasks , respectively .
A . Simulating Social Diffusion
As mentioned in Section II B , diffusion simulation in our model is the same as in traditional models . Actually , the diffusion simulation in our approach can adopt any generic social diffusion model . For computation simplicity , here we adopt the state of the art Steady State Spread ( SSS ) model [ 1 ] for diffusion simulation as an instance .
Generally , the activation probability of one node will be determined by two factors : 1 ) the statuses of its neighbors , and 2 ) diffusion probabilities from neighbors . Thus , the SSS model intuitively simulates the diffusion as a step bystep evolving procedure , and the expectation of activation probability of node ur at step k is
Pr(k ) = 1 − fi us∈N ( r )
( 1 − wsrPs(k − 1 ) ) ,
( 4 ) where Vi includes all the nodes but those “ seed ” nodes in the graph Gi , and Pr,i(k ) denotes the activation probability that the user ur has accessed the item i at the k th step . Since all the Gi ’s are DAGs , it is easy to prove that according to the SSS model all the Pr,i(k ) will keep unchanged after limited steps , thus the convergence of D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) is ensured .
B . Introducing Common Interest into Diffusion Simulation
According to Eq ( 4 ) , activation probability Pr(k ) relies on the weights {wsr} . Thus , we need to design a method for calculating wsr , ie , a proper corr(Ti , csr ) function mentioned in Section II A .
First , we need to determine the form of common interest parameter csr . Usually , multiple common interests may exist between users at different levels . Further , since we aim to leverage common interests to annotate the shared media contents , predefined annotations set T can be used to describe the abstract concept of “ interest ” . Therefore , we propose to use a |T| dimensional vector {cz sr} to represent the “ common interests ” between users us and ur , where cz indicates the level of the z th ( 1 ≤ z ≤ |T| ) “ interest ” , or sr indeed the z th predefined annotation . For normalization , we sr = 1 . have a constraint that Also , the item wise annotations Ti can be represented as a |T| dimensional vector {tz i } as well , in which each element tz i indicates whether the z th predefined annotation is selected ( tz i = 0 ) . Based on these two |T| dimensional vectors , we treat the edge weights on the graphs , or the diffusion probabilities , as an accumulation of multiple interests as : i = 1 ) or not ( tz z cz
. sr = 1 − wi
|T|fi z=1
( 1 − cz sr · tz i ) .
( 6 )
C . Learning Common Interests
By simulating CI based diffusion we can now address the optimization problem of Eq ( 2 ) . If we simply expand Eq ( 2 ) with Eqs . ( 4)–(6 ) , the optimization problem will be very complex and difficult to solve since there are so many diffusion graphs and each contains thousands of edges . To simplify the optimization problem , we observed that each D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) in Eq ( 2 ) is a sum of several Pr,i(k = ∞ ) according to Eq ( 5 ) . Also , according to the other variables are fixed , Pr,i(k ) is Eq ( 4 ) , monotonically non decreasing with respect to wi sr . Thus , the original optimization problem could be simplified as to sr ≡ maximize all the wi 1,∀s , r , i : esr ∈ Ei . Then , we relax the original problem as min sr ) , where Ia denotes the training sample set . Combined with Eq ( 6 ) for weight calculation , we utilize the gradient descent method to deal sr , which has a trivial solution wi s,r,i:esr∈Ei,i∈Ia
( 1 − wi if all
. where wsr and Ps(k − 1 ) correspond to the two factors mentioned above : wsr denotes the diffusion probability from us to ur , and Ps(k−1 ) denotes the expectation of activation probability of us at the previous step ; N ( r ) includes the neighbors of node ur . At step 0 , those “ seed ” nodes have Pr(0 ) set to 1 , while all the others have 0 . And then , stepby step iterations will be executed . tion probability , the expected diffusion D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei Section II C can be defined as
With the SSS model defining the expectation of activa ) in
D(Gi , Ti , C|Ei ) = lim k→∞
. ur∈Vi
Pr,i(k ) ,
( 5 )
6991160 with the optimization task as :
( 1 − cz sr · ti z ) )
.
|T|fi
F = s,r,i:esr∈Ei,i∈Ia sr(l ) − λ cz sr(l + 1 ) = cz
( z=1 ∂F ∂cz sr
= cz sr(l ) + λ
. s,r,i:esr∈Ei,i∈Ia
( 7 ) z · fi ( ti y=z
( 1 − cy sr(l ) · ti y ) ) where l indicates the round of iterations . After each step , csr should be re normalized . It is worth noting that according to the above algorithm , we can calculate csr if and only if esr appears in {Ei} , which means at least one training item has been diffused from us to ur . However , in practice , especially in the “ cold start ” period , training samples are not enough so that {csr} may be sparse . There are several alternative approaches to solve the problem , currently , we simply define sr = 1/|T|,∀z as a remedy for those edges that are needed cz but not covered in training samples .
D . Annotation Selection for Maximizing Diffusion
After learning common interest parameters from training samples , we can focus on the optimization task of the test stage , ie , Eq ( 3 ) , which is indeed similar to a typical diffusion maximization problem , whereas the annotation set replaces “ seed ” node set as control variables . Theoretically , ie , 2|T| − 1 kinds of all combinations , can be enumerated as input to find out the maximal diffusion . But in practice , although the pre defined annotation set T is usually not too large , the computational complexity of exhaustive search is still too expensive . the non empty subset of T ,
Therefore , when the efficiency is considered as an important factor , we can adopt a greedy algorithm , similar to the one to find the optimal seed nodes in the traditional diffusion maximization problem [ 1 ] . To be specific , we can test all the unselected annotations , and put the annotation that leads to the maximum incremental diffusion into the selected annotation set . This process will repeat until enough annotations are selected in order .
IV . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In this section , we report the results of extensive experiments to verify the effectiveness of our approach , then some further discussion is presented .
A . Experimental Setup
Raw data . We perform our experiments on two realworld data sets extracted from Douban.com , one of the most famous Chinese SNS which allows users to contribute comments on movies , books , and music1 . Totally , we extract view logs of 107,164 users . For Douban Movie data set , 89,667 contents are extracted , and the number is 475,820
1 http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Douban/ ( on Wikipedia ) for Douban Book . For each data set , 2,500 media contents are randomly selected and labeled for experiments .
Diffusion records extraction . In typical online SNS , if one user “ share ” ( eg mark a movie as “ have seen it before ” in Douban ) some media contents , all the friends ( or “ followers ” , ie unidirectional friends such as in Twitter or Douban ) will be notified , then they can continue the sharing to more friends . Thus , we extract diffusion trace based on the social relationship and the time of sharing , in a similar way to some previous work ( eg [ 2] ) . Specifically , if us shares the media content i , and later on , ur , a follower of us shares the same content , we extract a diffusion record of i from us to ur , ie , the edge esr exists in the diffusion graph Gi . With this method , we extract on average 1393.82 diffusion records for each item in the Douban Movie data set , and 167.18 for Douban Book . In our approach , three parameters are needed , namely , iteration stopping threshold and the step length for the gradient descent algorithm in training stage , and the iteration stopping threshold for the SSS model in test stage . In our experiments we empirically set the iteration stopping threshold and the step length for the gradient descent algorithm to be 0.0001 and 0.01 , respectively . For the SSS model , since the iteration will onverge after limited steps , the stopping threshold is set to 0 .
Parameters .
Evaluation metrics . To measure the effectiveness of our approach , precision ( P ) and recall ( R ) are calculated for the top K annotation results , where P means the ratio of correct annotations in the test result , and R means the ratio of retrieved annotations in the ground truth . To reflect the trade off between precision and recall , F measure is also introduced as F = 2×P×R P +R .
Besides , the mean reciprocal rank ( MRR ) is also used for evaluation . As one item may have multiple annotations , we define the MRR N as 1 Li , where N is the number N of retrieved correct annotations , and Li , i = 1 , 2 , . . . , N represents the rank of each correct annotation . This measure evaluates the ranking quality of test result .
.N i=1
1
B . Baseline Approaches
Since we focus on the media annotation task that does not rely on metadata and/or textual description , traditional annotating approaches are not directly applicable for comparison . Here we select three baselines that rely on the same data source as our approach .
1 ) Voting of users’ preferences : This approach is based on the assumption that the aggregated preferences of all viewers may indicate the feature of media content , where preferences are represented by annotations extracted from the individual view logs . Then , viewers vote with their preference , and the top ranked annotations are selected .
2 ) Item based CF : It is adapted from the basic itembased collaborative filtering ( CF ) , with the assumption that “ similar items attract similar users ” . In our experiments , the
7001161
( a )
( b )
( c )
Figure 1 . Comparison results of different annotation methods on the Douban Movie data set , with different values of K : ( a ) precision vs . recall ( both for top K ) , ( b ) F measure wrt K , and ( c ) MRR N wrt K .
P ( t | i ) ∝ . . s,r:esr∈Ei
= s,r:esr∈Ei
P ( t | ffus , ur ) P ( ffus , ur | t)P ( t ) ' t P ( ffus , ur | t)P ( t )
,
( 8 ) non negative matrix factorization ( NMF ) technique [ 14 ] is utilized to represent items as vectors over latent factors by decomposing the original user item matrix , and the similarity between items is calculated as the distance between the latent factor vectors . Then , given an item to annotate , training samples vote with their labels , and similarity is treated as weight , then the top ranked annotations are selected .
3 ) Diffusion based Bayesian approach : It is a naive Bayesian approach based on the diffusion records as extracted in our CIDM approach . Assuming that all the pairwise diffusion records are independent , the annotating task can be translated into a maximum a posteriori probability ( MAP ) estimation problem as
|
Here the likelihood P ( .us , urfi t ) , which means the probability that us shares an item with annotation t to ur , can be estimated as P ( .us , urfi | t ) = Nt(us,ur ) N ( us,ur ) , where N ( us , ur ) indicates the total number of diffusion records from us to ur in the training data , and Nt(us , ur ) indicates the number of diffusion records on training items that have annotation t . Besides , P ( t ) can be obtained from the global frequency of annotation t in the training data . C . Experimental Results
We first evaluate our CIDM approach as well as the three baselines on the Douban Movie data set . A standard 5 fold training test is performed , and the average results of the 5 tests are reported with different values of K for more detailed comparison . As the average number of annotations of each movie is about 3 according to ground truth , and 95 % of movies contain less than 5 annotations , thus , we set the value of K from 3 , 5 , 8 , up to 10 . The results are shown in Figure 1 . We can clearly see that our approach consistently outperforms the baselines . Moreover , the improvement are more significant under smaller K . Note that in practice , a small K is preferred for the purpose of content management , then our CIDM approach seems more promising .
7011162
Table I
TWO CASES OF ANNOTATING RESULTS
Name
Annotations
CIDM
Bayesian
Voting
Item CF
Final Destination
America , Suspense , Horror America , Horror , Suspense
Comedy , Love , China
Action , Hongkong
America , Comedy , Love Horror , Drama , Suspense
China , Hongkong
America , Comedy , Love Classic , Drama , Hongkong
Action , Animation
Love , Comedy , TV Series
Japan , Hongkong , Animation
Drama , Horror
We Were Soldiers
America , War , Action , History
America , Action , Classic Comedy , Sci Fi , Drama
War , Love
America , Comedy , Love Action , Drama , Classic
Hongkong , Sci Fi
America , Drama , Comedy
Classic , Action , Love
Hongkong , Sci Fi
Comedy , Love , Hongkong Japan , TV Series , Animation
Drama , Suspense
Then , we further evaluate our CIDM approach and the three baselines on the data set extracted from Douban Book . Again , standard 5 fold training test is performed , and we achieve similar results with the Douban Movie data set that our approach consistently outperforms the baselines under different K values , and for smaller K , the improvement of our approach is more significant . Due to the limitation of space , the figures of experimental results are omitted .
D . Case Study & Discussion
To better understand the experimental results , two exemplar movies are selected from the Douban Movie data set , which are shown in Table I . For each movie , its ground truth annotations are first listed out , followed by the annotating results given by different approaches , where top K = 8 annotations are shown in order .
Obviously , in both cases our CIDM approach generates better annotations compared to baselines , since almost all the ground truth annotations are retrieved and ranked at prior positions by the CIDM approach . When looking into the results , we could clearly find that our CIDM approach is able to not only find the frequent annotations such as “ America ” , but also find less frequent ( and correct ) ones like “ Horror ” or even rare ( and correct ) ones like “ War ” . On the contrary , the Bayesian and Voting approaches are good at finding out the frequent annotations , but are less capable in finding less frequent ones , or rank them at posterior positions ( such as
“ Horror ” and “ Suspense ” in the result of Final Destination by the Bayesian approach ) . Moreover , since comedy movies or love stories are quite popular in the Douban movie data set , the baseline approaches ( Bayesian , Voting , Item CF ) are always prone to assign these hot annotations , but this is not correct in the shown cases We may conclude that our CIDM approach is less influenced by varying frequency of annotations , thanks to the detection of common interests among minorities .
V . RELATED WORK
A . Media Annotation
The most related work to ours is media annotation techniques . Based on the utilization of user factors , the work on automatic annotation could be roughly divided into two categories : generalized annotating and personalized annotating , while the former is more relevant to our work . As introduced in Section I , rich textual descriptions [ 16 ] or characteristics of multimedia [ 18 ] could all be utilized for automatic annotating . Besides , personalized tags are also used , for instance the tagging graph based approach [ 20 ] .
For personalized annotating , the task is translated as to recommend the proper open vocabulary tag to certain user . Usually , connections between user , item and tags are formed as tuple structure , and then methods like adapted PageRank [ 5 ] or tensor factorization [ 13 ] are utilized to “ generate ” the new connections . Some other works ask end users to input some “ seed tags ” , and then other tags are recommended based on the correlation like “ co occurrence ” frequency [ 15 ] .
B . Social Diffusion Analysis
Another category of related work is social diffusion analysis . Though some work studies social diffusion in implicit networks ( eg [ 19] ) , where potential links exist between any pair of nodes , most researches in this field focus on social diffusion in explicit networks , ie the links between nodes are given . Among them , the Independent Cascade ( IC ) model [ 7 ] , following the assumption that influences from different nodes are mutually independent , is one of the most widely studied models . Other simulation models are also proposed , such as the maximum influence arborescence ( MIA ) model [ 3 ] , the shortest path based approximated model in [ 8 ] , and the iteration based Steady State Spread ( SSS ) model [ 1 ] that we adopted in our approach . With introducing topical factors , Tang et al . proposed a Topical Affinity Propagation ( TAP ) model [ 17 ] to represent the topic level social influence on large networks .
VI . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we focused on automatic annotating task for media contents based on social diffusion analysis . As the “ common interests ” between users influence social diffusion behaviors , the annotating task was converted to the CIbased diffusion maximization ( CIDM ) problem . Then , we formulated the CIDM problem as two optimization tasks and proposed the solutions with CI based diffusion simulation . The experimental results show that our approach can effectively generate high quality annotations and outperforms baseline approaches with a remarkable margin .
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The work described in this paper was supported by grants from Natural Science Foundation of China ( Grant No . 61073110 ) , The National Major Special Science & Technology Projects ( Grant No . 2011ZX04016 071 ) , and Research Fund for the Doctoral Program of Higher Education of China ( 20113402110024 ) , the Key Program of National Natural Science Foundation of China ( Grant No . 60933013 ) . Finally , thanks to the help from Nokia Research Center , Beijing .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] C . Aggarwal , A . Khan , and X . Yan , “ On influential node discovery in dynamic social networks , ” in SDM ’11 , 2011 , pp . 522–533 .
[ 2 ] M . Cha , A . Mislove , and K . Gummadi , “ A measurement driven analysis of information propagation in the flickr social network , ” in WWW ’09 , 2009 , pp . 721–730 .
[ 3 ] W . Chen , C . Wang , and Y . Wang , “ Scalable influence maximization for prevalent viral marketing in large scale social networks , ” in ACM SIGKDD ’10 , 2010 , pp . 1029–1038 .
[ 4 ] J . Gemmell , M . Ramezani , T . Schimoler , L . Christiansen , and B . Mobasher , “ The impact of ambiguity and redundancy on tag recommendation in folksonomies , ” in ACM RecSys ’09 , 2009 , pp . 45–52 .
[ 5 ] R . J¨aschke , L . Marinho , A . Hotho , L . Schmidt Thieme , and G . Stumme , “ Tag recommendations in folksonomies , ” in PKDD ’07 , 2007 , pp . 506–514 .
[ 6 ] A . Kaplan and M . Haenlein , “ Users of the world , unite! the challenges and opportunities of social media , ” Business horizons , vol . 53 , no . 1 , pp . 59–68 , 2010 .
[ 7 ] D . Kempe , J . Kleinberg , and E . Tardos , “ Maximizing the spread of influence through a social network , ” in ACM SIGKDD ’03 , 2003 , pp . 137–146 .
[ 8 ] M . Kimura and K . Saito , “ Tractable models for information diffusion in social networks , ” in PKDD’06 , 2006 , pp . 259–271 .
[ 9 ] K . Lerman , “ Social information processing in news aggregation , ” IEEE Internet
Computing , vol . 11 , no . 6 , pp . 16–28 , 2007 .
[ 10 ] K . Lewis , M . Gonzalez , and J . Kaufman , “ Social selection and peer influence in an online social network , ” PNAS , vol . 109 , no . 1 , pp . 68–72 , 2012 .
[ 11 ] T . Noh , S . Park , H . Yoon , S . Lee , and S . Park , “ An automatic translation of tags for multimedia contents using folksonomy networks , ” in ACM SIGIR ’09 , 2009 , pp . 492–499 .
[ 12 ] G . Qi , X . Hua , Y . Rui , J . Tang , T . Mei , and H . Zhang , “ Correlative multi label video annotation , ” in Multimedia ’07 , 2007 , pp . 17–26 .
[ 13 ] S . Rendle , L . Marinho , A . Nanopoulos , and L . Schmidt Thieme , “ Learning optimal ranking with tensor factorization for tag recommendation , ” in ACM SIGKDD ’09 , 2009 , pp . 727–736 .
[ 14 ] H . Seung and D . Lee , “ Algorithms for non negative matrix factorization , ” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol . 13 , pp . 556–562 , 2001 . [ 15 ] B . Sigurbj¨ornsson and R . van Zwol , “ Flickr tag recommendation based on collective knowledge , ” in WWW ’08 , 2008 , pp . 327–336 .
[ 16 ] Y . Song , Z . Zhuang , H . Li , Q . Zhao , J . Li , W . Lee , and C . L . Giles , “ Real time automatic tag recommendation , ” in ACM SIGIR ’08 , 2008 , pp . 515–522 .
[ 17 ] J . Tang , J . Sun , C . Wang , and Z . Yang , “ Social influence analysis in large scale networks , ” in ACM SIGKDD ’09 , 2009 , pp . 807–816 .
[ 18 ] L . Wu , L . Yang , N . Yu , and X . Hua , “ Learning to tag , ” in WWW ’09 , 2009 , pp .
361–370 .
[ 19 ] J . Yang and J . Leskovec , “ Modeling information diffusion in implicit networks , ” in ICDM ’10 , 2010 , pp . 599–608 .
[ 20 ] Z . Yin , R . Li , Q . Mei , and J . Han , “ Exploring social tagging graph for web object classification , ” in ACM SIGKDD ’09 , 2009 , pp . 957–966 .
7021163
