An Automatic Semantic Relationships Discovery
Approach1
Hai Zhuge , Liping Zheng , Nan Zhang and Xiang Li China Knowledge Grid Research Group ( http://kgictaccn ) ,
Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing ,
Institute of Computing Technology , Chinese Academy of Sciences , China
01062562703 , 086 zhuge@ictaccn
ABSTRACT An important obstacle to the success of the Semantic Web is that the establishment of the semantic relationship is labor intensive . This paper proposes an automatic semantic relationship discovering approach for constructing the semantic link network . The basic premise of this work is that the semantics of a web page can be reflected by a set of keywords , and the semantic relationship between two web pages can be determined by the semantic relationship between their keyword sets . The approach adopts the data mining algorithms to discover the semantic relationships between keyword sets , and then uses deductive and analogical reasoning to enrich the semantic relationships . The proposed algorithms have been implemented . Experiment shows that the approach is feasible .
Categories & Subject Descriptors : H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing – indexing methods , linguistic processing . General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation . Keywords : Algorithm , analogical reasoning , Semantic Link Network , Semantic Web , data mining . 1 . INTRODUCTION Semantic Web is to overcome the shortcomings of the current Web by making the semantics of web pages machineunderstandable . The Semantic Link Network ( SLN ) is a directed graph where nodes are semantic components and arcs are semantic links . A semantic component can be another SLN , a concept , or an atomic semantic component like a piece of text or an image . A semantic link is an arc between two semantic components . Each arc is marked with a type and a certainty degree between 0 and 1 that reflects the inexactness of semantic relationship . There are eight basic types of the semantic relationships : cause effect ( ce ) , implication ( imp ) , sub type ( st ) , instance ( ins ) , reference ( ref ) , similar to ( sim ) , sequential to ( seq ) and undefined ( und ) . Previous studies on SLN include SLN definition , ranking of semantic components and SLN based reasoning [ 2,3,4,5,6 ] . However , they are confined to an existing SLN manually
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17 22 , 2004 , New York , NY USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . constructed . How to effectively build an SLN for large scale resources is still an open issue . Thus the requirement for automatically semantic relationships between web resources arises . This paper presents an approach that combines data mining and SLN based reasoning to solve this issue . semi automatically generating or
2 . RELATED WORK The proposed approach in this paper is similar to web mining in principle and adopts frequent pattern mining , an important technique of data mining to investigate those simultaneous and frequent occurrences of data [ 1 ] , as one of its major parts . Semantic link deduction is used to find out the implied semantic relationships between semantic components from existing semantic links in SLN , which is based on a set of semantic link connection rules . It can be realized through the adjacent matrix representation of SLN and the special matrix self multiplication . Two semantic components are determined to have a particular semantic two semantic components similar that have such relationship . However , such discovered relationship has to be verified manually on whether it is valid . there are another them respectively relationship if to
3 . TECHNICAL PATH We only discuss the semantic relationships between web pages and leave alone the certainty degree of semantic relationship . For each web page we extract a number of keywords ( keyset ) that can properly describe its subject . Then we construct a small set ( training set ) that includes a number of web page pairs among which each pair of web pages has a certain type of semantic relationship . Apriori like algorithm can be used to mine relationship between keyword sets . Reasoning is used to complement the mined frequent rules so as to further find out more relationships between keywords sets : ( 1 ) st•st = st , ~sim = sim ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ce•l = ce , l∈{ce , imp , st , sim , ins} ; l•ce = ce , l ∈{imp , st , ins} ( 6 ) seq•seq = seq ; ~l•seq•l = seq , l ∈{ce , imp , ref , ins , st} l•ins = ins , l∈{ins , st , imp} imp•l = imp , l∈{imp , st} ; l•imp = imp , l∈{st , ins} l•ref = ref , l∈{ref , ins , st , imp}
1 This work was supported by the National Science Foundation of China ( NSFC ) .
278 ( 7 ) ( l1+l2)•l3 = l1•l3+l2•l3 , and l3•(l1+l2 ) = l3•l1+l3•l2 ( 8 ) sim•l•sim = l , l∈{ce , imp , ref , ins , st , imp , seq} In an SLN environment comprising only web pages , reasoning can be realized by our proposed approach through the multiplication and addition operations on matrix entries defined by the above eight operation laws . The general system architecture of the proposed approach is shown in Figure 1 . Herein we construct a small training set by SLN definition tools . After using the Apriori algorithm on the training set to generate frequent antecedents and consequents , we connect them to generate candidate rules . For each candidate rules we compute its support degree and confidence degree , and them with min_s and min_c respectively . Those compare candidate rules with support degree and confidence degree more than min_s and min_c respectively are output as frequent rules . Reasoning then acts on frequent rules to generate complementary rules . At last , frequent rules together with complementary rules are used on test sets ( a deposit of web pages not within the training set ) to divide the web pages in test sets into corresponding web pair groups with particular semantic relationship . Web users will verify the validity of the classification results . include
4 . MINING FREQUENT RULES Mining frequent rules two consecutive algorithms : Apriori like algorithm to generate frequent antecedents and consequents ; and connection algorithm to connect them into candidate rules , compute the support degrees and confident degrees of them , and output those candidate rules with support degrees more than min_s and confident degree more than min_c as frequent rules . In Apriori like algorithm , we store the training subsets in a binary tree structure so as to save the I/O overhead and make mining efficient and highly scalable . The algorithm consists of two consecutive phases : tree construction organizing the training subsets in a compact structure similar to the data structure of the FP growth method , and rule generation . In the rule generation phase , Apriori like checks each keyword in the binary tree . If one keyword β passes the support degree threshold , Apriori like investigates the subsequent keywords following β in those paths starting with β . If the combination of β and some of its subsequent keywords passes the support degree threshold , Apriori like outputs the combination as frequent item . Note that if a keyword cannot pass the support degree threshold , then the keywords combinations including the keyword will not be checked .
5 . CONCLUSIONS To automatically discover the semantic relationship between web resources is the key to the success of Semantic Web . This paper proposes an approach to automatically build a Semantic Link Network through automatically finding out semantic relationships between web pages . The proposed approach integrates the datamining algorithm and the semantic link reasoning , and reduces the issue of automatically discovering the semantic relationship to establishing the semantic relationships between the keyword sets of web pages . The approach could avail effective organization of web resources and favor current web data mining research . Ongoing work includes extending the approach by taking into account the relationship between keywords , the certainty degree of semantic link and dealing with other types of web resources other than web pages .
SLNSLNSLNSLN def i ni t i on def i ni t i on def i ni t i on def i ni t i on t ool s t ool s t ool s t ool s
Const r uct i on
Tr ai ni ng set Tr ai ni ng set Tr ai ni ng set Tr ai ni ng set
Apr i or i Apr i or i Apr i or i Apr i or i
Fr equent Fr equent Fr equent Fr equent ant ecedent s ant ecedent s ant ecedent s ant ecedent s
Apr i or i Apr i or i Apr i or i Apr i or i
Fr equent Fr equent Fr equent Fr equent consequent s consequent s consequent s consequent s
Connect i on Connect i on Connect i on Connect i on
Candi dat e r ul es Candi dat e r ul es Candi dat e r ul es Candi dat e r ul es
Comput e SUPSUPSUPSUP and Comput e and CCCCONFONFONFONF and Comput e Comput e and
SUP >= min_s and CONF >= min_c ?
Yes
Fr equent r ul es Fr equent r ul es Fr equent r ul es Fr equent r ul es
Test i ng set Test i ng set Test i ng set Test i ng set
Reasoni ng Reasoni ng Reasoni ng Reasoni ng
Compl ement ar y Compl ement ar y Compl ement ar y Compl ement ar y r ul es r ul es r ul es r ul es
Cl assi f i cat i on Cl assi f i cat i on Cl assi f i cat i on Cl assi f i cat i on
Ver i f i cat i on
Semant i c Semant i c Semant i c Semant i c r el at i onshi ps r el at i onshi ps r el at i onshi ps r el at i onshi ps
Web user s
Figure 1 . The system architecture of the proposed approach .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Agrawal , R . , and Srikant , R . Fast algorithms for mining association rules . Proceeding of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases , 1994 , 478 499 .
[ 2 ] Zhuge , H . Active e Document Framework ADF : Model and
Tool . Information & Management , 2003 , 41 : 87 97 . [ 3 ] Zhuge , H and Zheng , L . Deductive and Analogical
Reasoning on Semantic Link Network . Technical Report of China Knowledge Grid Research Group .
[ 4 ] Zhuge , H . and Zheng , L . Ranking Semantic linked Network . The 12th International World Wide Web Conference , 2003 , Budapest .
[ 5 ] Zhuge , H . , China ’s e Science Knowledge Grid Environment ,
IEEE Intelligent Systems , 2004 , 19(1 ) : 13 17 .
[ 6 ] Knowledge Grid Forum , http://wwwknowledgegirdnet
279
