SPT Based Topology Algorithm for Constructing Power
Efficient Wireless Ad Hoc Networks
Szu Chi Wang
Department of Electrical Engineering
National Taiwan University
Taipei , Taiwan wsc@lioneentuedutw
David S . L . Wei
Sy Yen Kuo
Department of Computer and
Information Sciences Fordham University Bronx , New York wei@dsmfordhamedu
Department of Electrical Engineering
National Taiwan University
Taipei , Taiwan sykuo@cceentuedutw
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a localized Shortest Path Tree ( SPT ) based algorithm for constructing a sub network with the minimum energy property for a given wireless ad hoc network . Each mobile node determines its own transmission power based only on its local information . The proposed algorithm constructs local shortest path trees from the unit disk graph . The performance improvements of our algorithm are demonstrated through simulations .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C21 [ Network Architecture and Design ] : Network topology .
General Terms Algorithms .
Keywords Wireless ad hoc networks , topology control , power consumption .
1 . INTRODUCTION A wireless ad hoc network is formed from mobile nodes without using an infrastructure . Each mobile node is responsible for serving not only as a user but also as a router . The connectivity of the network is maintained through the cooperation of all nodes in the network . It is known that the performance of a protocol for an ad hoc network can be enhanced if the protocol is designed based on overlaying a virtual infrastructure over the ad hoc network . Also , due to the finite power supply of a mobile computer , power conservation has been widely used as a primary control parameter in the design of protocols for wireless ad hoc networks . Therefore , the problem of power efficient topology control has been attracting more and more researchers from the areas of mobile computing and networking . A wireless ad hoc network can be modeled by a weighted directed graph G = ( V , E ) , where V represents the set of all mobile nodes and E represents the set of interconnections between pairs of mobile nodes . For each edge ( u , v ) ∈ E , node v must be in the transmission range of node u . We use ||uv|| to denote the Euclidean distance between node u and node v . The weight of the edge ( u , v ) , namely w ( u , v ) , can be formulated as t ⋅ ||uv||α + rp ( u , v ) in the most widely used power attenuation model , where t is a threshold related to the signal to noise ratio at node u , α is a constant between 2.0 and 5.0 depending on the wireless transmission environment . The former part of the equation is typically called the transmitter power and is the power consumed
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . for transmitting signal from node u to node v . The remaining part is the power consumed at the receiver node and is denoted as receiver power . The sum of transmitter power and receiver power is called transmission power in the rest of this paper . We assume that all the mobile nodes are distributed in a twodimensional plane and each mobile node has a GPS receiver on board for acquiring its own location information . We also assume that initially all mobile nodes are operated at full transmission power and have the transmission radius equal to one unit by a proper scaling . Consequently , the resulted graph G will be a unit disk graph ( denoted as UDG ( V ) ) and there is an edge between two nodes if and only if their Euclidean distance is at most one . We assume that UDG ( V ) is strongly connected . All of the mobile nodes have unique identifiers ( ID ) numbered from 1 to N , where N = |V| . Each mobile node can individually adjust its own transmission power . We assume that omni directional antennas are used by all of the mobile nodes to transmit and receive signals . Hereafter we adopt several definitions given in [ 1 ] . Let f be a complete transmission power assignment on V , and Gf be the associated communication graph . The total power consumption of f is defined as Σu∈V f ( u ) , where f ( u ) is the minimum transmission power needed to reach all the neighbors of u in Gf . Given a ( unicast ) path Π ( u , v ) from node u to node v in Gf , the path can be expressed as Π ( u , v ) = v0v1…vh 1vh , where u = v0 , v = vh . The path length of Π ( u , v ) ( denoted as |∏ ( u , v)| ) is h . The total transmission power of this path is defined as : p
(
Π vu ,(
) )
= vw ( i
− 1 v , i
)
. h
∑
= 1 i
Given a communication graph H , the minimum energy path between node u and node v , denoted by ΠH min ( u , v ) , is a path whose total transmission power is the minimum among all the paths that connect these two nodes in H . A subgraph H of G has the minimum energy property if for each ( u , v ) ∈ V there is a minimum energy path in H from u to v .
2 . RELATED WORKS In [ 2 ] Rodoplu and Meng described a distributed protocol for constructing a topology that guarantees the minimal energy path between every pair of nodes that are connected in a given graph . Recently , Li et al . [ 3 ] proposed a protocol based on their results but performs better and is computationally simpler . In [ 1 ] Li et al . studied the power efficiency property of several well known proximity graphs , such as the constrained Gabriel graph ( denoted by GG ( G) ) , the constrained relative neighborhood graph ( denoted by RNG ( G) ) , and the constrained Yao graph ( denoted by YGk ( G) ) , over a ( directed ) graph G . They also showed that if G = UDG ( V ) and receiver power is negligible , the power stretch factor of GG ( G ) is always one , namely the minimum energy property is guaranteed .
234 The power stretch factors of RNG ( G ) and YGk ( G ) could be as large as N – 1 and 1 / ( 1 – 2sin ( k/π) ) , respectively .
3 . OUR LOCALIZED ALGORITHM Due to the characteristics of wireless ad hoc networks , it is preferred that the underlying network topology can be constructed in a localized manner [ 4 ] . In our case , a distributed transmission power control algorithm is called localized if every node u can decide its transmission power based only on the information of the nodes reachable in a small number of hops . The local topology view of node u , denoted by LTV ( u , k ) = ( V’ , E’ ) , is a subgraph of G such that ( 1 ) a node vi ∈ V’ if the hop distance between vi and u is no more than k ; ( 2 ) an edge ( vi , vj ) ∈ E’ if ||vivj|| is less than the transmission radius of vi . Our localized algorithm operates based on LTV ( u , 1 ) . The location information of the one hop neighbors can be obtained by using some form of beacon messages that are sent periodically and asynchronously by each node ; the weight of each edge in LTV ( u , 1 ) can thus be derived . Each node u applies Dijkstra ’s algorithm independently to get the shortest paths from the source node u to the other nodes in LTV ( u , 1 ) . As a result , the local shortest path tree of node u , denoted by LSPT ( u ) , can be obtained . The direct children of node u , DC ( u ) , is defined as DC ( u ) = {v ∈ V’ | h ( LSPT ( u ) , v ) = 1} , where h ( LSPT ( u ) , v ) is the height of a child node v in LSPT ( u ) . Node u then removes the edge set {(u , w ) | w ∉ DC ( u)} from its edges and decides its logical links . Each node sends the result to its one hop neighbors . The topology generated under the above descriptions is denoted as G1 . Since for each node u , only the onehop neighborhood information is available for constructing LSPT ( u ) , some links in G1 may be uni directional . However , unidirectional links are unfavorable in wireless ad hoc networks . Our solution to remove uni directional links is simple : since all nodes are aware of the logical links of its one hop neighbors after the above process is completed , each node deletes the uni directional links and adjusts its transmission radius according to the remaining logical links . The resulted topology is denoted as G2 . An example is illustrated in Fig 1 ; the gray circle is the initial transmission range of p1 and the dashed circle represents the transmission range after adjustment . p3 p3 p2 p2 p5 p5 p1 p1 p4 p4 p6 p6 p7 p7 p3 p3 p2 p2 p1 p1 p4 p4 p6 p6 p7 p7 p5 p5
Fig 1 . Illustrative example .
The critical properties of the topology generated by our algorithm are listed below . Due to the limited space , we omit the proofs here . Lemma 1 : The minimum energy path between any two nodes in G is preserved in G1 . Lemma 2 : The minimum energy path between the two end nodes of each deleted link in G1 is preserved in G2 . Lemma 3 : G2 preserves the network connectivity of G .
4 . PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS Via simulations , we compared the performance of our algorithms with that of others in terms of the total power consumption ( denoted as tpc ) and the average/max node degree ( denoted as avg/max nd ) of the topologies constructed by the algorithms being compared . The experimental results are summarized in Table 1 . Our algorithm is denoted as LSPT . The unit disk graph ( denoted as UDG ) is chosen as a basis for comparison . We chose the algorithm proposed by Li and Halpern [ 3 ] ( denoted by SMECN ) since it performs significantly better than the one proposed by Rodoplu and Meng [ 2 ] in terms of total power consumption . Likewise , the constrained Gabriel graph ( denoted by GG ) has the minimum energy property and outperforms those described in [ 1 ] ; it is thus chosen for comparison here . In our simulations , α was set to 4.0 and the receiver power was ignored . Be advised that tpc is normalized to lie in between 0.0 and 1.0 by dividing its values by the total power consumption of UDG . The transmitter range R is fixed at 500 meters . The map sizes are equal to s × R by s × R , for s = 3 and 5 . The x and y coordinates of each node are selected at random in the interval [ 0 , m ] , where m is the map size . The experimentation was performed for N = 100 .
Table 1 . The performance measurements s = 3 s = 3 avg nd max nd avg nd max nd 25.5408 25.5408 tpc tpc 1.0 1.0 tpc tpc 1.0 1.0
0.245597 0.245597 0.159539 0.159539 0.122629 0.122629 s = 5 s = 5 avg nd max nd avg nd max nd 10.4232 10.4232 3.4496 3.4496 2.6596 2.6596 2.45 2.45
27 27 8 8 5 5 5 5
53 53 8 8 6 6 5 5
UDG UDG GG GG
SMECN SMECN LSPT LSPT
0.05339 0.05339 0.026874 0.026874 0.01495 0.01495
3.59 3.59 2.7016 2.7016 2.4284 2.4284
From Table 1 we observe that the topology constructed by our algorithm has a tpc much less than that of UDG , GG and SMECN . Our algorithm also outperforms the others in terms of average and max node degree .
5 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we develop a distributed algorithm that requires only local information for constructing a logical topology on the given unit disk graph . The concept of k redundant edges is proposed by Li and Halpern [ 3 ] . The algorithm in [ 3 ] , however , comes with 2redundant edges only . Our proposed algorithm tackles k redundant edges for k ≥ 2 . That is , we achieve a better result by a means that is totally different from those given in [ 2 , 3 ] . Moreover , the topology constructed by our algorithm has several desired features such as low total power consumption and the minimum energy property .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] X . Y . Li , P . J . Wan , Y . Wang , and O . Frieder , “ Sparse Power Efficient Topology for Wireless Networks , ” HICSS , Hawaii , January 2002 .
[ 2 ] V . Rodoplu and T . H . Meng , “ Minimum Energy Mobile Wireless Networks , ” IEEE Journals on Selected Areas in Communications , 17(8):1333 1344 , August 1999 .
[ 3 ] L . Li and J . Halpern , “ Minimum Energy Mobile Wireless Networks Revised , ” IEEE International Conference on Communications ( ICC 2001 ) , June 2001 .
[ 4 ] I . Stojmenovic and X . Lin , “ Power aware Localized Routing in International Parallel and
Wireless Networks , ” Distributed Processing Symposium , 2000 .
IEEE
235
