Automatic Extraction of Web Search Interfaces for
Interface Schema Integration
Hai He , Weiyi Meng Dept . of Computer Science
SUNY at Binghamton Binghamton , NY 13902
Clement Yu
Dept . of Computer Science Univ . of Illinois at Chicago
Chicago , IL 60607 yu@csuicedu
Zonghuan Wu
Center for Adv . Compu . Studies Univ . of Louisiana at Lafayette
Lafayette , LA 70504 zwu@cacslouisianaedu
{haihe , meng}@csbinghamtonedu
ABSTRACT This paper provides an overview of a technique for extracting information from the Web search interfaces of e commerce search engines that is useful for supporting automatic search interface integration . In particular , we discuss how to group elements and labels on a search interface into attributes and how to derive certain meta information for each attribute . Categories & Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services – Commercial Services , Web based Services . H52 [ Information Interface and Representation ] : User Interfaces – User Interface Management Systems . General Terms Algorithms , Management , Performance , Design . Keywords Search interface representation , Search interface extraction , Search engine , Metasearch engine . has four elements including a textbox and three radio buttons . The label of an attribute is referred to as attribute name , and element(s ) of the attribute are treated as attribute domain . If an attribute contains multiple elements , these elements may be related in some way . For example , among the four elements of author in Figure 1 , the textbox is treated as domain element while the three radio buttons are treated as constraint elements since each of them specifies a constraint on the domain element . In addition to such explicit composition information of attributes , each attribute is also implicitly associated with a set of metainformation such as the domain type ( eg , finite , range ) and value type ( eg , date , currency ) , which is essential for enhancing attribute matching [ 1 ] .
1 . INTRODUCTION This paper provides an overview of a technique for extracting information from the Web search interfaces of e commerce search engines ( ESEs ) that is useful for constructing e commerce metasearch engines ( EMSEs ) . More specifically , the aim is to extract information that supports automatic search interface integration . In [ 1 ] , we presented a model to capture the information on a search interface and a tool ( WISE Integrator ) that can automatically build a unified search interface over multiple heterogeneous ESE search interfaces of the same product domain based on the model . However , in [ 1 ] , the information in the model was manually obtained from each search interface . In for automatically this paper , we outline our constructing the model . A Web search interface for e commerce typically contains some HTML form control elements such as textbox ( ie , a singleline text input ) , radio button , checkbox and selection list ( ie , a pull down menu ) that allow a user to enter search information . Each element usually has a label – a descriptive text – associated with it . An element may have one or more values . For example , a selection list usually has a list of values ( options ) for users to select , and a radio button/checkbox usually has a single value . Logically , elements and their associated labels together form different attributes of the products in the underlying database of the search engine . Often an attribute may consist of one or more labels and elements . For example , the author attribute in Figure 1 technique
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
Figure 1 . The book search interface of amazoncom
2 . INTERFACE EXTRACTION In our work , interface extraction consists of two major steps : ( 1 ) Attribute extraction : given all search interfaces of a domain , extract labels and elements appearing in each form and then group them into logic attributes ; ( 2 ) Attribute analysis : analyze the labels and elements of each attribute to derive meta information of the attribute such as domain type and value type . 2.1 Attribute Extraction We observe that labels and elements of the same attribute have a certain layout and are usually close to each other , and that in most cases they share some similar information . The layout of labels and elements can be captured as an interface expression(IEXP ) . For a given search interface , its IEXP is a string consisting of three basic items ‘t’ , ‘e’ and ‘|’ , where ‘t’ denotes a label/text , ‘e’ denotes an element , and ‘|’ denotes a row delimiter which represents a physical row border in the search interface . IEXP provides a high level description of the layout of different labels and elements on the interface while ignoring the details like the values of the elements and the actual implementations of laying out labels and elements . For example , the IEXP of the search interface in Figure 1 is “ te|eee|te|eee|te|eee|te|te|t|te|te|te|te|tee|t|te ” , where the first ‘t’ denotes the label “ author ” , the first ‘e’ denotes the textbox following the label “ author ” , the first ‘|’ is the first row delimiter , the following three ‘e ’s denote the three radio buttons below the textbox ( the text on a radio button or checkbox is treated as the value of the element , thus the text and its radio button/checkbox together are a whole entity ) .
We employ a two step approach to perform automatic extraction of attributes . In the first step , the IEXP of a given interface is constructed . Starting from HTML tag “ <form> ” of the search engine form , when a label or an element or a row delimiter is encountered , we append a ‘t’ or ‘e’ or ‘|’ to the IEXP ( initially it is empty ) accordingly . The delimiter is identified by “ <p> ” , “ <br> ” and “ <tr> ” tags in the HTML source code . This process continues until tag “ </form> ” is reached . The IEXP organizes labels and elements into multiple rows . In the second step , based on the IEXP , labels and elements are grouped such that each group corresponds to a separate attribute . For each element e in a row , we need to find the text either in the same row or some rows above the current row that is most likely to be the attribute label for e . To this end , some special features of search forms are applied such as : ( a ) texts ending with a colon are likely to be attribute labels ; ( b ) an element is likely to appear close to its attribute label . 2.2 Attribute Analysis When attributes are extracted , attribute analysis is to analyze each attribute interface representation , four types of meta information for each attribute are defined and they are domain type , value type , default value and unit . Deriving meta information is fairly straightforward . In the following , we sketch how to automatically extract each type of meta information . its meta information . In our to derive
Domain type : Four attribute domain types are defined : range , finite , infinite , and Boolean . The domain type of an attribute can be derived from its label(s ) and associated element(s ) . If an attribute has element(s ) with range semantics such as “ betweenand ” and “ less than ” patterns , its domain type is range . If it has a list of pre defined values for users to select and they have no range semantics , its domain is of finite type . If it has just a single checkbox , the attribute is considered to have a Boolean domain type . An attribute with infinite domain type usually consists of textbox(es ) with no range semantics .
Value type : Value types defined in our model include date , time , datetime , currency , id , number and char . To identify date , time , datetime , currency and id , we provide a thesaurus for each type , which just contains domain independent information such as keywords and patterns . If the labels and element values contain relevant keywords and patterns , the attribute ’s value type is determined . A pattern can be defined by a regular expression . For example , keywords “ date ” or regular pattern “ [ 0 1]?[0 9]/[03]?[0 9]/([0 9]{2}|[0 9]{4} ) ” imply a date value type . If an attribute does not belong to one of these five value types , then the value type is declared to be number if the values of each element are numeric ; otherwise the value type is char .
Default value : Not all attributes have its default value . If an attribute just contains textboxes , then the attribute has no default value . The default value may occur in a selection list , a group of radio buttons/checkboxes . It is always marked as “ checked ” or “ selected ” in the HTML source code of forms .
Unit : The unit defines the meaning of an attribute value ( eg , kilogram is a unit for weight ) . To identify the unit of an attribute , we construct a unit library that contains the most popular units in e commerce sites , such as “ currency ” , “ weight ” , “ age ” and “ date ” .
From the labels and values of an attribute , we may get some information about its unit . Then we use the information and the library to derive the appropriate unit for the attribute . For example , if a label containing “ US$ ” implies that the unit is “ USD ” ; “ age ” implies that the unit is “ year ” . If an attribute has multiple domain elements , we also identify their relationship and their semantics . In our model , three types of relationships for multiple domain elements are defined and they are group , range and part . If an attribute contains just multiple checkboxes/radio buttons , the group type is recognized for these elements . Since range is a special type of part , we consider range type first . A range domain type implies that the elements are of range related . Then the elements that are not of range type would be treated as part type by default . 2.3 Experimental Results We evaluated our interface extraction technique using 184 search interfaces from 7 application domains . Grouping extracted labels and elements into separate attributes is the most complex problem in the interface extraction . In this task , we need to group the labels and elements that conceptually represent the same concept into a single attribute . Meanwhile , an attribute label should be identified for each attribute . To evaluate our method , we manually identified the attributes of each search interface , and then manually compare them with the results of our method . We evaluate the accuracy in two levels of granularity : element level and attribute level . Element level : A label is correctly extracted for an element if it matches the manually identified label . This criterion is also used in [ 3 ] to evaluate the LITE method for label extraction . The overall accuracy of our method based on 1582 elements from 184 forms is 9766 % Attribute level : An attribute consists of up to three aspects of information : the name/label of the attribute , the set of domain elements and the set of constraint elements . An extracted attribute matches a manually extracted attribute if they match on all three aspects . No results on attribute level accuracy were reported in [ 3 ] . The overall attribute level accuracy of our method is 9561 % Our approach also has good accuracy in obtaining metainformation of extracted attributes , such as domain type , value type , unit , default value and the relationships of elements . The average accuracy of our method for each of the above category of meta information is above 97 % . 3 . RELATED WORK The works reported in [ 2 , 3 ] are the most relevant to our work . Our approach is different from the above works in many ways and the major difference is that our approach is attribute oriented ( ie , labels and elements are grouped into attributes ) , more comprehensive , and more suitable for search interface integration . 4 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This work is supported in part by the following grants from NSF : IIS 0208574 and IIS 0208434 . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . He , W . Meng , C . Yu , and Z . Wu . WISE Integrator : An Automatic Integrator of Web Search Interfaces for Ecommerce . VLDB Conference , Berlin , 2003 .
[ 2 ] O . Kaljuvee , O . Buyukkokten , H . Garcia Molina , and A . Paepcke . Efficient Web Form Entry on PDAs . 10th WWW conference , 2000 .
[ 3 ] S . Raghavan and H . Garcia Molina . Crawling the Hidden
Web . VLDB Conference , Italy , 2001 .
