ProThes : Thesaurus based Meta Search Engine for a Specific Application Domain
Pavel Braslavski
Institute of Engineering Sciences
34 Komsomolskaya St .
620219 Ekaterinburg , Russia
+ 7 ( 343 ) 374 5953
Gleb Alshanski
Institute of Metal Physics 18 Sofia Kovalevskaya St . 620219 Ekaterinburg , Russia
+ 7 ( 343 ) 378 3563 pb@imachuranru alshansk@impuranru to employ domain specific knowledge , which
ABSTRACT In this poster we introduce ProThes , a pilot meta search engine ( MSE ) for a specific application domain . ProThes combines three approaches : meta search , graphical user interface ( GUI ) for query specification , and thesaurus based query techniques . ProThes attempts is represented by both a conceptual thesaurus and results ranking heuristics . Since the knowledge representation is separated from the MSE core , adjusting the system to a specific domain is trouble free . Thesaurus allows for manual query building and automatic query techniques . This poster outlines the overall system architecture , format , and query operations . ProThes is implemented on J2EE platform as a Web service . thesaurus representation
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.3 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] . H31 : Content Analysis and Indexing – thesauruses ; H33 : Information Search and Retrieval – query formulation , information filtering ; H35 : Online Information Services – Web based services .
General Terms Experimentation , Design , Human Factors , Languages .
Keywords Information retrieval , meta search , user interface , thesaurus , query operations , Web services .
1 . INTRODUCTION The growth of the Web leads to high popularity of the online search services . Meeting the demand , Web search engines ( SE ) show superior productivity and extensive content coverage . Aiming for satisfying as many Web surfers as possible , search engines employ modest user interfaces in addition to simple query syntax by default and make strong assumptions about user behavior , preferences , etc . Searchers with specific information needs do not always benefit from this approach . In this poster , we propose a solution for focused Web information retrieval , which emphasizes the query specification stage of the retrieval process ( in contrast for example , to analyzing page contents or link structure [ 2 ] ) and aims at employing the power of the all purpose search engines . We introduce ProThes , a system
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17 22 , 2004 , New York , NY USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
Anton Shishkin
Institute of Engineering Sciences
34 Komsomolskaya St .
620219 Ekaterinburg , Russia
+ 7 ( 343 ) 374 5953 whoarym@imachuranru that combines meta search , graphical user interface for query specification , and thesaurus based query techniques . ProThes customization is achieved by means of a conceptual thesaurus that is used for various query operations and simple heuristics for results merging and partial re ranking . The separation of the domain specific knowledge from the system logic allows easily switching between different domains .
2 . SYSTEM DESIGN ProThes is a Web service developed using Java 2 Enterprise Edition ( J2EE ) platform . The server part includes a thesaurus component ( T ) , query and response dispatchers ( QD and RD respectively ) , and search engine gates ( fig . 1 ) . The gates to Google ( wwwgooglecom ) and Yandex , Russian leading SE ( wwwyandexru ) have already been implemented .
GUI Client
XML/SOAP
QD
RD
T
Google Gate
Yandex Gate
ProThes Server
XML/SOAP
XML/HTTP
Google
Yandex
Figure 1 . Overall System Architecture
The client is a GUI application developed using Java Swing library . It consists of a thesaurus visualization component , a query constructor , and a results representation area ( in a separate window ) .
3 . THESAURUS The thesaurus is a key component of the proposed MSE . The basic element of the suggested thesaurus is a concept rather than a term . A concept is defined purely through associated terms . By this approach , we , first , gain a simple structure for describing various types of synonymy ( including cross language equivalents ) and polysemy . Second , we can effectively choose the appropriate granularity of the knowledge representation . Third , we operate on a higher conceptual level than the lexical one . Moreover , we assume that an accurate knowledge description can demand various semantic link types between concepts . Hence we would not limit link types set supposing that it must be adjusted to the specificity of each domain . However , as a singular case a
222 thesaurus can be imagined in which each concept is presented by a single term and concepts are connected by no named ( eg statistically produced ) links . The main idea is to let the developers choose thesaurus structure and link types freely . An XML Scheme for thesauri was developed . In general , the instance thesaurus consists of a header and a set of concept entries ; each of them consists in its turn of definition , links , and a set of term entries . On the bottom level lie terms along with associated acronyms , cognates , variants , and usage contexts . Most of the thesaurus elements are optional . Developer of an instance thesaurus can expand the set of link types using the XML redefine mechanism . Discussion on the thesaurus model and the format particularities can be found in [ 1 ] . The developed core XML Schema is available at http://imachuranru/pb/thesaurus/thesaurusxsd A Russian English thesaurus of the domain “ Automated Optical Inspection of the Printed Circuit Boards ” was build manually from scratch . It consists mainly of PCB and computer vision related concepts . The thesaurus contains approximately 200 concepts , 800 terms , and 750 one way links as of January 2004 .
4 . FUNCTIONALITY Visualizing concept network along with definitions , related concepts , associated terms , terms usage etc . , ProThes maintains the pick up metaphor of manual query building . User can specify a query as an AND OR ANDNOT tree , choosing appropriate terms from the thesaurus network ( fig . 2 ) .
( eg a Russian query is sent to Yandex , an English one – to Google ) . For queries built with the thesaurus appear frequently too strict , the second kind of automatic transformations is query loosening and is similar to the one proposed in [ 3 ] . A query can be loosened gradually by omitting quotation marks , adding quasi synonyms , replacing AND with OR . An important task ProThes has to execute is results merging and re ranking . Domain specific preferences can be expressed in an initialization XML file , so the final document ’s position in the merged list depends on its position in the initial response list , the SE confidence , the file size , date and extension , as well as domain name . In the latter case the URLs from specific Web directory sections can be used . However , lacking for both global statistics and documents themselves , we can concern only partial reranking .
5 . CONCLUSION Combining three established techniques , – meta search , graphical user interface for query specification , and thesaurus based query operations , – we try to balance out the universality of the Web search engines and the specificity of the user information needs . Our preliminary experiments have shown that automatic query techniques , although being very helpful in many cases , fail to deliver consistently good results . Hence , the automatically produced expressions should be considered rather as suggestions than as ready to send queries . Manual procedures of thesaurus building can be a bottleneck of the proposed approach . In our future work we are going to address the problem of the automated lexical acquisition .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The project was supported in part by the Russian Fund of Basic Research , grant # 03 07 90342 . Pavel Braslavski is especially grateful for the hospitality of the Computer Science Department at the Freie Universität ( FU ) Berlin , where part of his contribution to this project was made . His research at the FU Berlin was supported by the German Academic Exchange Service ( DAAD ) .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Braslavski , P . Thesaurus for Query Expansion for the Web Search Engines : Structure and Functions ( in Russian ) . [ Tezaurus dlya rasširenija zaprosov k masinam poiska Interneta : In Proceedings of Dialogue’2003 ( Protvino , Russia , June 2003 ) , Nauka , 95100 . struktura i funkcii ] .
[ 2 ] Chakrabarti , S . , Berg , M . , and Dom , B . Focused Crawling : A New Approach to Topic Specific Web Resource Discovery . In Proceedings of the WWW8 ( Toronto , Canada , May 1999 ) , http://www8org/w8 papers/5a search query/crawling
[ 3 ] Gauch , S . , and Smith , JB An Expert System for Automatic Query Reformulation . In Journal of the American Society of Information Science , 1993 , 44 ( 3 ) , 124 136 .
Figure 2 . ProThes’ GUI two kinds of automatic query
Moreover , we propose transformations . The first one is based on templates . A template defines term entry fields to be used , link types along with the appropriate operators ( AND , OR , ANDNOT ) , expansion depth , and language options . Starting from the pointed pivot concept , ProThes builds a query using thesaurus breadth traversal . Selected elements within a concept are ORed ; the resulting query can be translated and split between different search engines depending on language options
223
