Business Objective Based Resource Management S . Wasserkrug
A . Landau N . Razinkov
S . Aiber D . Gilat
A . Sela
IBM Haifa Research Lab
Haifa University , Mount Carmel , Haifa 31905 , Israel
972 4 8296211
{ sarel , dagang , ariel , natali , sela , segevw }@ilibmcom process autonomous
ABSTRACT Enterprises today wish to manage their IT resources so as to optimize business objectives , such as income , rather than IT metrics , such as response times . Therefore , we introduce a new paradigm , which focuses on such business objective oriented resource management . Additionally , we define a general simulation based such optimizations , and describe a case study , demonstrating the usefulness of such a process . Categories & Subject Descriptors : C.4 [ Performance of Systems ] : Modeling techniques and Performance attributes . I.6 [ Simulation and Modeling ] : I63 Applications and I64 Model Validation and Analysis . General Terms : Management , Measurement , Performance , Economics . Keywords : IT Policy , Optimization , Simulation , Business Objective , Economic Considerations , Modeling Techniques . enabling these
1 . INTRODUCTION The major challenges in the runtime resource management in any enterprise are both the initial optimization of these resources , and keeping resources optimized when changes occur . Traditional IT optimizations typically focus on IT measures ( eg , increase the site ’s availability by 1 % ) . Nowadays , however , many enterprises are keen on achieving business objectives , optimizing the total revenue generated by the infrastructure . Therefore , resource management should focus on these business goals , rather than the more conventional IT metrics .
2 . RELATED WORKS Current IT related runtime resource management efforts focus on optimizing IT level metrics , such as round trip response times [ 1 ] . However , these IT metrics are not directly related to business level goals , such as revenue or return on investment ( ROI ) . Some products attempt to manage IT so as to better align it with business the Peakstone eAssurance product [ 2 ] attempts to manage a web site so that a set of service level agreements ( SLAs ) is not violated . However , we are unaware of any works in which a generalized approach , an architecture and technologies are introduced for runtime resource management according to high level business objectives . level objectives . For an example ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
3 . OPTIMIZED RESOURCE MANAGEMENT We define a general automatic optimization process implementing business objective based resource management . Figure 1 depicts this process . First of all , business goals are defined . Then , based on these definitions , both business rules detailing how IT level metrics affect these business goals , and SLAs ( or other contracts ) , are generated . Then the following continuous loop is executed : 1 . business objective based optimization is carried out ( see the following sub section ) . 2 . The IT policy defined by the optimization process is enforced to the runtime environment ( by effectors ) that manages the resources of the IT infrastructure according to this policy . 3 . Available monitoring tools monitor the IT resources , the conformance to the contracts , and the business objectives achieved by the infrastructure . 4 . The Significant Change Detection ( SCD ) component uses the results of the monitoring process to recognize a significant enough change between the model and the business environment . 5 . If a significant change is determined , the model used for the optimization is updated , and the loop begins again starting with the optimization process .
Business Objective Definitions
Business Objective Based Optimization
Business
Rule
Definitions
SLA/
Contract Definitions
&
IT Policy Enforcement
IT Policy Definitions Parameters Figure 1 . Business Objective Based Resource Optimization
Significant Change Detection
Monitoring
3.1 Models for Business Objective Based Optimization In order to carry out business objective based optimization , a model of the system is required . In our implementation , this model is composed of three main sub models : a business level model , an IT model and an IT to business level impact analysis model . The business level model supports the calculation of the business metrics , eg , gains from commissions , explicit penalties paid to customers whenever SLAs are violated , etc . In order to enable
236 optimization , this economic model should calculate an “ end result ” —a single quantity that can be used to quantify the alignment of the IT with the business objectives . We term this quantity the overall business metric ( OBM ) . An example of such an OBM is the total income generated by the IT infrastructure . The IT model is composed of the system model and the system user behavior model . The system model takes into account items such as the hardware configuration of the IT , and the software installed on this hardware . The system user behavior model takes into account the manner in which the users of the IT infrastructure use the systems supported by this infrastructure . In our current implementation , the system user behavior model and the system model are modeled using hybrid simulation models ( ie , simulation models combining both conventional detailed simulation modeling techniques , and other techniques ) . The IT to business level impact analysis model defines how events at the IT level impact the business objectives defined by the business level model . Examples of this are how individual response times measured for a customer impact the penalty paid to a customer and the measurement of a customer ’s dissatisfaction with poor response times . In order to optimize the IT according to the business objectives , an optimizer is coupled with the model . The optimization process itself is a search over the space of possible actions/policies , which attempts to find the setting in this space that optimizes the business objectives . Figure 2 depicts the architecture of the optimization mechanism .
User Behavior
Simulation
Model
System & Effector Simulation Models
Generate Traffic
Current Policy
Events
Situations
AMIT Situation Manager
Situations
Optimizer
Overall Business Metric Calculation
( AMIT )
Figure 2 . Resource Optimization Architecture
Figure 3 . Use Case Configuration
The effector used in this case study was the bandwidth allocation component of IBM ’s Edge Server ’s TQoS component [ 4 ] . This component allows allocating the network bandwidth of the user ’s HTTP requests , thereby allowing prioritizing the requests of one customer over another . The edge server policy was optimized using the architecture described in Section 31 With no bandwidth limitation ( ie , all customers receive equal priorities , and , therefore , equal resource allocation ) , the total income was $475,376 . The optimization process , after 7 iterations , found a policy improving the total income and brought it to $179,088 , ie , changed an initial negative income to a positive value . Figure 4 shows these results .
$
C o m p arison o f Policies
1200000 1000000 800000 600000 400000 200000
0
Co m m issio n
Penalty
Incom e
200000 400000 600000
O ptim ize d Policy D efault P olicy ( no B and width Lim its )
Figure 4 . Comparison of Default & Optimized Policies
4 . CASE STUDY In order to validate the above approach , an e Trading web site ( ie , a web site allowing the buying and selling of stocks on the internet ) was optimized according to business objectives . This eTrading web site was based on IBM ’s Trade3 benchmark application [ 3 ] , ie , a three tier J2EE e Trading web application . The architecture of this site appears in Figure 3 . The business objectives in this case study were the following : • For each buying/selling of a stock , a commission of maximum of 4 % or $25 is collected .
• Two types of SLAs exist : Platinum and Gold . A customer pays a daily flat fee of $50 and of $20 for Platinum and Gold SLA respectively .
• A customer is promised an average response time of 1 second for platinum and of 2 seconds for gold agreement respectively .
• For each 1 % deviation from this response time , the site pays a penalty of $5.5 or of $3.5 for platinum and gold agreement respectively .
5 . SUMMARY This paper presents a process and algorithm for managing the IT resources of an IT business infrastructure according to high level business objectives . This approach has the advantage of constantly keeping the infrastructure aligned with business objectives , and clearly connects IT related policy decisions to business level metrics such as profit or ROI . In addition , a case study demonstrating the usefulness of this approach was described .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Menasce , D . Barbara , and R . Dodge , “ Preserving QoS of Ecommerce Sites Through Self Tuning : A Performance Model Approach ” , Proceedings of 2001 ACM Conference on Ecommerce , Tampa , 2001 , pp . 224–234 .
[ 2 ] http://wwwpeakstonecom [ 3 ] http://www 3ibmcom/software/webservers/appserv/ benchmark3.html
[ 4 ] http://wwwibmcom/software/webservers/edgeserver
237
