On a Web Browsing Support System with 3D Visualization
Toshihiro YAMAGUCHI , Hiromitsu HATTORI ,
Takayuki ITO , and Toramatsu SHINTANI
Dept . of Computer Science and Engineering , Nagoya Institute of Technology gokiso , shouwa , Nagoya , 4668555 , JAPAN {okina , hatto , itota , tora}@icsnitechacjp
ABSTRACT Existing commercial Web browsers provide various utilities and functions , eg , Web bookmarks and a browsing history list . Since the bookmark and history functions only the title and URL of the Web page , users who cannot remember the contents of each Web page have difficulty retracing their steps . In this paper , we propose a bookmark system based on a 3D interface . Additionally , our system offers three main functions ; a 3D browsing history function , a marker function , and a look ahead loading function . These functions enable users to browse Web pages more effectively .
Categories and Subject Descriptors D22 [ Software Engineering ] : Design Tools and Techniques— User interfaces ; H52 [ User Interfaces ] : [ Graphical user interfaces ( GUI) ] ; I38 [ Computer Graphics ] : Applications
General Terms Design
Keywords 3D Technology , Web browser , Visualization
1 .
INTRODUCTION
A variety of technologies and softwares for the World Wide Web are being developed these days . Since a huge number of Web pages exist today , most Web browsers offer a bookmark function for more effective Web browsing . However , in most browsers , the bookmark function cannot retain a lot of information and is restricted to items such as the title and URL of each Web page . In this paper , we propose a system for viewing Web bookmarks with 3D visualization . Users tend to forget the content of Web pages that has a low access frequency . If the content is forgotten , it is difficult for users to remind it with only a title and URL . Additionally , when a Web page is updated , users must access it in order to check the updates . Our system loads the image of each Web page in advance and shows it alongside the addition to the title and URL . It also uses a 3D visualization technology that can a display images in several modes , ie , a book mode , a circle mode , and a cube mode .
Hascoet has proposed a BookMap [ 1 ] . This BookMap is a user interface for Web navigation systems . In BookMap such as the Web bookmark and browsing history data are made into graphs , and shown visually . Kaasten [ 2 ] and others proposed the importance of the Back button , a browsing history , and Web bookmark Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . and expressed concerns about these issues . Their system offers an interface that shows small Web pages at one side of the title and URL . These systems are implemented with a 2D user interface . Compared to the 2D interface , our 3D interface system has high browsability , and enables users to check Web pages clearly and easily . Struart[3 ] has proposed a 3D Web browsing environment WebBook/WebForager which employs a book metaphor into work space . Users can be browsing Web pages in 3D space . Our 3D visual Web bookmark system has two different points compared with this system ; ( 1 ) Our system can use be used with and kind of Web browsers . ( 2 ) A page pre reading function is implemented .
2 . THE VISUAL BOOKMARK SYSTEM
2.1 System Outline
Our visual Web bookmark system can display several Web page image simultaneously . Figure 1 shows an example of the system . Using our system , users can see an overview of the cached pages . Therefore , it is easy to check for modifications in each page . For example , if the design of a Web page has changed , a user will be able to recognize it .
As shown in Figure 1 , our Web bookmark system has three layout modes ; a book mode , a circle mode , and a cube mode . Image ( a ) in Figure 1 shows a book layout mode , based on a book metaphor . In this mode , users can see each page as if he/she were browsing books in the real world . Since the book metaphor has been applied in some systems , it is easy for most users to use . Image ( b ) in Figure 1 shows a circle layout mode , that allows users to browse several Web pages , the images of Web pages are drawn around the circumference of a circle . In this mode , three pages are situated in a circle with the center page that is interesting for the user being is bigger than the other pages . Image ( c ) in Figure 1 shows a cube layout mode . In this mode , images of Web pages are on the surface of a cube . A user can follow his/her browsing history by rolling over the cube .
In all layout modes , there are several buttons and a slider under the 3D interface . These are the next button , the prev button , the load button , and the save button , located at the bottom of the screen . The next button and the prev button can turn images over and move them to the left or right . The load button obtains current data for each Web page . The save button is for saving the current layout . The slider can change the transparency of the interface .
2.2 System Architecture
The Architecture of our bookmark system is shown in Figure 2 . There are three main modules ( an image generator module , a data handling module , and 3D interface module ) , as well as database .
316 ( a ) : Book mode
( b ) : Circle mode
( c ) : Cube mode
Figure 1 : 3D Layout Mode
Changing HTML to a picture Save to Database
Acquiring Web page
Our System
Database
Image generator Module
Pictures of Web page itself , URL/Page Data
Data handling Module
3D interface Module
Web Browser
Bookmark , History Data acquired reading
Showing Request
Input
Output
Showing Bookmark/History
User
Figure 2 : System architecture
The image generator module obtains bookmark data from the database . This module takes the title and URL of Web pages from the bookmark and then accesses the URL to obtain Web page data ( ie , HTML text and some image files ) . In order to generate an image of the Web page , this module displays the obtained data as a Web page in a virtual Web page viewer . Since the viewer is constructed virtually , it is invisible to users . The displayed Web page is converted to an image file and stored in the database .
The data handling module obtains the bookmark , which is created by Web browser and registers the Web page data from the database . This module extracts the titles and URLs from the obtained data , and sends them to the 3D interface module . Moreover , the titles and URLs extracted from the Web browser ’s bookmark are added to the database .
The 3D interface module obtains images of Web pages from the database , based on data from the data handling module . This module constructs the 3D user interface using an OpenGL graphics library . The transparency of the interface can be changed by adjusting the alpha value , giving the transparency information .
3 . FUNCTIONS FOR EFFECTIVE WEB
BROWSING
Our bookmark system has three functions ; ( 1 ) a 3D browsing history function , ( 2 ) a marker function , and ( 3 ) a page pre reading function .
1 . 3D browsing history function
This function shows the user ’s browsing history based on the 3D interface . The operation is basically the same as that in the 3D bookmark . Also , the function offers a sort function for the history . Namely , users can arrange the order of the images of Web pages .
2 . Marker function
This function offers a method for attaching memos to images of Web pages displayed in a 3D bookmark . Using this function , users can add more detailed information to the image . This function helps users to know the contents of each Web page .
3 . Page pre reading function
This function enables users to generate images of Web pages in advance . The system extracts the URLs included on a Web page , and then accesses each URL to generate images of Web pages . Since a hyperlink is shown in a text , there is little information about the linked page . For example , an user can not see the design of a linked Web page . Using this function , users can check the Web page overview in advance . This function is especially effective when a user uses a search engine such as Google . The search results may contain many URLs . Generally , it is time consuming for users to access to each URLs . The page pre reading function can generate images by accessing the URLs . Accordingly , this function offers a preview list for Web pages included in the search results .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
Our 3D Web bookmark system can offer an alternative user interface for Web bookmarks . Our system is based on advanced 3D visualization technology . Advantages of our system can be described as follows ; ( 1 ) Users can check bookmarks using various layouts . This enables users to check the overview of Web pages more efficiently . ( 2 ) The 3D browsing history function , marker function , and page pre reading function can support more effective Web browsing .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Mountez Hascoet : A User Interface Combing in Navigation
Aids , The eleventh ACM on Hypertext and hypermedia , pp.224 225 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] Kaasten , S . and Greeenberg , S . : Integrating Back , History and Bookmarks in Web Browsers , In Proc . of CHI’01,2000 .
[ 3 ] Stuart K . Card , George G . Robertson , and Willam York : The WebBook and the WebForager : An Information Workspace for the World Wide Web , In Proc . of CHI’96 , ACM Press , pp.111 117 , 1996 .
317
