Publishing Museum Collections on the Semantic Web
– The MuseumFinland Portal
Eero Hyv¨onen , Miikka Junnila , Suvi Kettula , Eetu M¨akel¨a ,
Samppa Saarela , Mirva Salminen , Ahti Syreeni , Arttu Valo , and Kim Viljanen
Helsinki Institute for Information Technology ( HIIT ) , University of Helsinki
PO Box 26 , 00014 UNIVERSITY OF HELSINKI , FINLAND http://wwwcshelsinkifi/group/seco/ firstnamelastname@cshelsinkifi
ABSTRACT Museum collections contain large amounts of data and semantically rich , mutually interrelated metadata in heterogeneous databases . The publication of museum collections on the web is therefore a very promising application domain for semantic web techniques . We present a semantic web portal called \MuseumFinland | Finnish Museums on the Semantic Web"1 [ 3 ] that contains some 4,000 cultural artifacts from the collections of three museums using three different database schemas and database systems . The system is based on seven RDF(S ) ontologies consisting of some 10,000 classes and individuals . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H36 Information Systems : Online Information Services General Terms : Design Keywords : Semantic Web , ontology , content publishing
1 . THE GOALS
The goals of developing the system were : 1 ) Provide the public a global view to the heterogeneous collections in Finland . 2 ) Provide the end user with a content based searchengine for finding objects of interest , and a semantic recommendation system for browsing the collections . 3 ) Create for the museums a national publication channel for publishing contents on the Semantic Web . In this paper , these goals and solutions developed in our work are summarized .
2 . GLOBAL VIEW OF COLLECTIONS
The heterogeneity of museum collection databases creates a severe obstacle to information retrieval . The traditional solution to this problem is to use multi search2 . Here the query is send to the local museum database systems , answered there locally , and the results are then appended into the global answer ( hit list ) by the portal . In contrast , MuseumFinland solves the problem by creating a dynamic seamless space of web pages depicting collection objects . For example , figure 1 shows the web page of a distaff , a
1http://museosuomicshelsinkifi 2Artefacts Canada , http://wwwchingcca/ , Australian Museums and Galleries Online , http://wwwamolorgau/ , etc .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . part used in a spinning wheel . The metadata is seen in the middle and links to other object pages on the right . The web space can 1 ) be searched by a semantic searchengine and 2 ) be browsed using the links on the right . The multi search paradigm cannot facilitate such services based on global inter collection associations between objects .
3 . VIEW BASED SEARCH ENGINE
The semantic search engine is a new server based version of Ontogator3 [ 4 ] . It is based on the multi facet search paradigm [ 6 , 2 ] . The idea is to organize the concepts and individuals of the underlying knowledge base into orthogonal category taxonomies called views . Views are used extensively in the user interface in helping the user to formulate the queries . The user can express the query easily in the right terminology by selecting ( sub)categories from the views . For example , by selecting \carpet" from an artifact type taxonomy and \silk" from a material taxonomy , silk carpets are found .
There are nine view hierarchies in use grouped under the four headings of \Artifact Characteristics" ( object type and object material views ) , \Artifact Creation" ( manufacturer , manufacturing time , and manufacturing location views ) , \Usage" ( user , place of usage , and usage event views ) , and \Collections" ( museum collection view ) . The view hierarchies are projected from the underlying seven ontologies used in annotating the collection data . The projection is based on logical predicates that define how the hierarchy is formed . For example , in the object type view the relations rdfs:subClassOf and rdf:type are used , while in the manufacturing location and place of usage views the part of relation is used . More complex projection rules are needed , eg , for associating objects with the usage event view . SWI Prolog4 with its RDF parser is used for creating the projections .
Finding relevant categories becomes a search problem of its own when dealing with thousands of categories . To help the user , Ontogator also contains a search engine for finding view categories .
4 .
SEMANTIC RECOMMENDATIONS
A major goal of the MuseumFinland is to reveal the rich semantic linkage connecting the collection objects with each
3Ontogator http://wwwhplhpcom/semweb/jenahtm 4http://wwwswi prologorg is written
Java in and
Jena
2.0 ,
418 Figure 2 : Data transformations in MuseumFinland . and RDF annotations , and Protege 20006 is used for manual editing .
6 . DISCUSSION
MuseumFinland is an application of the idea of semantic portals to solving interoperability problems of museum collection databases when publishing their content on the Semantic Web . The novelty of the view based search engine of MuseumFinland with respect to other view based systems [ 6 , 2 ] lies in its capability of using RDF(S ) ontologies as the basis of search [ 4 ] . The idea of semantic recommendations is related to Topic Maps , Open Hypermedia [ 1 ] , and the HyperMuseum [ 7 ] . Acknowledgments Our work is funded mainly by the National Technology Agency Tekes , Nokia , TietoEnator , the Espoo City Museum , the Foundation of the Helsinki University Museum , the National Board of Antiquities , and the Antikvaria Group consisting of some 20 Finnish museums .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] C . Goble , S . Bechhofer , L . Carr , D . De Roure , and W . Hall .
Conceptual open hypermedia = the semantic web ? In Proceedings of the WWW2001 , Semantic Web Workshop , Hongkong , 2001 .
[ 2 ] M . Hearst , A . Elliott , J . English , R . Sinha , K . Swearingen , and
K P Lee . Finding the flow in web site search . CACM , 45(9):42{49 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] E . Hyv(cid:127)onen , M . Junnila , S . Kettula , , E . M(cid:127)akel(cid:127)a , S . Saarela ,
M . Salminen , A . Syreeni , A . Valo , and K . Viljanen . MuseumFinland|Finnish Museums on the Semantic Web . User ’s perspective . In Proceedings of Museums and the Web 2004 ( MW2004 ) , Arlington , Virginia , USA , 2004 .
[ 4 ] E . Hyv(cid:127)onen , S . Saarela , and K . Viljanen . Ontogator : combining view and ontology based search with semantic browsing . In Proceedings of the XML Finland 2003 conference . Kuopio , Finland , 2003 .
[ 5 ] E . Hyv(cid:127)onen , M . Salminen , S . Kettula , and M . Junnila . A content creation process for the semantic web . In Proceeding of OntoLex 2004 : Ontologies and Lexical Resources in Distributed Environments , Lisbon , Portugal , 2004 ( forthcoming ) .
[ 6 ] A . S . Pollitt . The key role of classification and indexing in view based searching . Technical report , University of Huddersfield , UK , 1998 . http://wwwiflaorg/IV/ifla63/63polstpdf
[ 7 ] P . Stuer , R . Meersman , and S . De Bruyne . The HyperMuseum theme generator system : Ontology based internet support for active use of digital museum data for teaching and presentations . In Museums and the Web 2001 : Selected Papers . Archieves & Museum Informatics , 2001 .
Figure 1 : A collection object web page . other . The linkage is shown to the end user as hypertext links . The links are defined declaratively in terms of Prolog predicates . Each predicate defines a semantic association and gives it a label as an explanatory name for the link .
For example , in figure 1 the semantic links on the right point to to objects used at the \same location" ( categorized according to the name of the common location ) , to objects related to \similar events" ( eg , objects used in spinning , and decorative objects , because distaffs are usually beautifully decorated ) , to objects manufactured at the \same time" , and so on . Since a decoratively carved distaff used to be a typical wedding gift in Finland , it is also possible to recommend links to other objects used as wedding gifts , such as wedding rings .
The semantic recommendation system is implemented as a logic server called Ontodella based on the SWI Prolog HTTP server version . The MuseumFinland system itself is a Cocoon based server5 that communicates with Ontogator and Ontodella servers with XML/RDF messages .
5 . CONTENT PUBLICATION PROCESS
A practical goal of our work is to design a process for Finnish museums to publish their collections on the Semantic Web . In our process scheme [ 5 ] , the museum first transforms its collection data into XML ( cf . figure 2 ) . Each collection object is represented as an XML card that describes the object in terms of 22 properties whose values are strings and numbers read from the underlying database . The XML Schema used is agreed upon the participating museums and guarantees syntactic interoperability of the collections .
Next , each XML Card is transformed into an RDF card with similar RDF properties , but where up to 16 string values are transformed into the URIs of the corresponding classes and individuals in the ontologies . This transformation is based on a set of term cards that map terms with ontology resources . MuseumFinland provides the museums with 1 ) the RDF(S ) ontologies , 2 ) a set of term cards . The museums can adapt their terminological conventions to the portal by creating new term cards of their own . Two special tools has been developed for creating terminologies
5http://cocoonapacheorg
6http://protegestanfordedu/
419
