Online Feedback by Tests and Reporting for eLearning and Certification Programs with TCmanager G . Wilts D . Bade
G.Nüssel
SoftDeCC Software GmbH
Kobellstrasse 2a
D 80336 München , Germany
0049 89 89067840 db@softdecc.com
SoftDeCC Software GmbH
Kobellstrasse 2a
D 80336 München , Germany
0049 89 89067837 gn@softdecc.com
SoftDeCC Software GmbH
Kobellstrasse 2a
D 80336 München , Germany
0049 89 89067836 gw@softdecc.com
ABSTRACT The evaluation of eLearning success is an indispensable business requirement of education programs : the easy registration of ‘visits’ to eLearning websites is , however , not sufficient in most cases . Additional metrics from authenticated logins and reports of learning activity and success as obtained from specific online tests – are required . The aim is to document the acceptance , progress and return of investment ( ROI ) of eLearning programs , and set up additional training well tailored to the needs of a specific learning community . An example from a corporate certification program proves the applicability of the proposed processes .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.1 [ ADMINISTRATIVE DATA PROCESSING ] : Education K31 Learning
[ COMPUTER USES IN EDUCATION ] Distance
K31 [ COMPUTER USES IN EDUCATION ] Collaborative Learning
General Terms : Management , Human Factors , Economics
Keywords : eLearning , Blended Learning , Online Tests
1 . INTRODUCTION Students and professionals asking for additional knowledge are usually pleased with the wide scope of knowledge sources available electronically and wish to “ learn on demand ” [ 4 ] . This implies a high level of student ’s independence from locations and time schedules , which have been described by other terms like ‘Open learning’ or ‘Distance learning’ previously [ 2 ] . However , electronic information sources may eventually turn out to be useless [ 3 ] without an editor or moderator . Therefore many training organizations tend to extend or enhance but not replace classroom training by web based training ( WBT ) . Then – besides finding skilled multimedia instructors [ 1 ] the integrated administration of the learning program and implementation of a
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . feedback channel between students and tutors as well as the training organization is critical for the success and of such blended learning concepts .
2 . INTEGRATED ADMINISTRATION An integrated administration example is TCmanager , a seminar administration system with integrated eLearning platform implementing SCORMTM 1.2 runtime . It provides efficient operational support for the delivery of training and in order to minimize administrative efforts , collect feedback from eLearning programs and therefore make eLearning a profitable business . For students the first visible result is the integrated training catalogue including both classroom training and WBT offerings .
Fig 1 Integrated internet catalogue
3 . AUTHENTICATED ACCESS Training or test material may be provided anonymously , but authenticated access is needed whenever the information becomes specific to the student , eg in a communication channel between trainer and tutor . In TCmanager authenticated access may be opened even temporarily for selected students and therefore allows to precisely tailor the access to eLearning material : certain students may get access to the eLearning platform at certain times and will be able to execute just the booked eLearning courses . In addition to authenticated access for students , TCmanager provides authenticated access for trainers , who may then inspect their time schedules or even deliver tutorial work from all internet access points available in their current environment .
432 is supported removal of all over the world and not be influenced by local preferences of regional business responsibles . 5.1 Solution For preselection a set of multiple choice tests was created using its online test creation and configuration functionality . These tests can be executed anonymously by everybody feeling qualified . The quality of the questions was insured by an elaborate review and translation process , the results of which can be used in the test sequences still at runtime . On preparation for the test individually by a “ personal every candidate consultant ” pointing to additional educational offerings . Nevertheless the proof of a successful test is a prerequisite to register for personal certification . 5.2 Benefits of the solution The most important benefits of the solution are the homogeneous standard , cost efficiency , time constraints , transparency of the process and even ongoing progress . 5.3 Project result The process was successfully implemented and is currently operational . Preselection and comparable qualification is ensured for the candidates entering the costly and time consuming theoretical and practical exams .
( cid:131 ) ( cid:131 ) select courses with recommendations from TCmanager tests Benefits ( cid:131 ) homogeneous standard , time restrictions removed , cost effective
( cid:131 ) Solution ( cid:131 ) supply qualification tests on TCmanager eLearning platform
Worldwide Certification Process Problem ( cid:131 ) world wide certification program for qualified partners only register preselected and qualified trainees only ( world standard )
( break even for >500 students ) , success immediately visible limited resources ( time & money ) available
Fig 4 The certification process problem
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Hirning , A . , From Traditional Classroom Training to ELearning And Back : Education For Real Multimedia Instructors , in “ Collaboration and Cooperation ” , Online Educa Berlin , 8th International Conference on Technology Supported Learning & Training , ICWE GmbH , Berlin 2002
[ 2 ] Rumble , G , . ‘Open learning’ , ‘distance learning’ , and the misuse of language , Open Learning ( June 1989 ) , 28 36
[ 3 ] Stoll , C . Silicon Snake Oil . Second Thoughts on the
Information Highway , New York , Doubleday 1995
[ 4 ] Trondsen , E . & Vickery , K . Learning On Demand , The next 1996 frontier http://wwwsric bicom/BIP/Rsums/RS840shtml competitive advantage . building in
Fig 2 Trainer Schedule obtained via authenticated access
4 . ONLINE TESTS AND EVALUATIONS Online tests may be used as ( i ) anonymous prerequisite tests to check the skills level of eLearning students , ( ii ) didactical tests with multiple choice answers and the right answer(s ) displayed after each question or even ( iii ) tutorial tests to be configured and used by an eLearning tutor at runtime in order to establish a common level of understanding or just terminology for further learning . Evaluations are then available at runtime and yield a highly useful feedback eg to the tutor on the skills level of the students .
Fig 3 Online test evaluation : test statistic by theme
5 . WORLDWIDE CERTIFICATION EXAMPLE Integrated administration for eLearning , internet catalogue , authenticated access and online tests have been used by a large corporation wanting to qualify its world wide partners for special tasks and safeguard the qualification by a certification process . The certificate should finally be awarded after passing an elaborate theoretical exam in an independent professional test center and a practical exam in the corporation itself . The preselection should be done according to the same requirements
433
