Can I Find What I’m Looking For ?
Patrizia Andronico
IIT , National Research Council via Moruzzi , 1 56010 Pisa , Italy +39 050 3152090
Marina Buzzi via Moruzzi , 1 56010 Pisa , Italy +39 050 3152631
IIT , National Research Council
ISTI , National Research Council
Barbara Leporini via Moruzzi , 1 56010 Pisa , Italy +39 050 3152034
PatriziaAndronico@iitcnrit
MarinaBuzzi@iitcnrit
BarbaraLeporini@isticnrit
ABSTRACT In recent years , search engine research has grown rapidly in areas such as algorithms , strategies and architecture , increasing both effectiveness and quality of results . However , a very important aspect that is often neglected is the user interface . In this work we analyzed the interfaces of several popular search tools from the user ’s point of view , and collected individual feedback in order to determine whether it is possible to improve interface design Categories & Subject Descriptors : H52 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : User Interfaces – User centered design General Terms : Human Factors Keywords : Search engine , user interface , accessibility , usability .
1 . INTRODUCTION The enormous amount of information available on the Internet today necessitates the use of search tools for retrieval of useful information . People wish to find relevant information quickly . Often this is difficult , and the user navigates back and forth among search engine results , which can be both frustrating and time consuming . Even if a user can rapidly distinguish between the useful and irrelevant pages , unless the set of results is quite small a complete exploration is practically impossible . Finding and accessing information is also very important for people with disabilities , especially for the blind , who have considerable difficulty accessing printed information . The Internet has contributed significantly to increasing the independence of visually impaired people in their jobs , studies , and free time . Thus , it is also important to make search engines universally accessible and easy to use for visually impaired users , who are obliged to use special devices such as screen readers . In order to improve quality of results , search engines apply various functions to assign importance to a page ( ie page rank , similarity , backlinks and mixed approaches ) and give precedence to pages with high weight , supposedly indicating greater relevance . However , the user may still have difficulty performing web searches . Why ? There are various reasons , including user behavior and skill , search engine interface design and web content designers : • A user is unable to formulate the right query and restrict the results set . Using phrases with many words often produces no results . Users then prefer to specify only one or two words , which generates large sets of results .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
• A user interface can be difficult or inaccessible for the unskilled or disabled user .
•
• Ranking functions are applied statically , ie the user is not able to select the criteria most appropriate for him . Some options are present in advanced searches , but are rarely applied by users . Information on the Internet is rarely structured and organized for easy retrieval by search engines . Web page authors do not correctly apply meta tags such as description and keywords and do not use meaningful filenames , titles , link descriptions and alternative texts . In addition , an inappropriate use of metadata produces phenomena called “ search engine spam ” , aimed at deviating search engine results . For this reason most search engines ignore or only partially use metadata .
This work describes the initial results of a study on search engine accessibility and usability . We have started to analyze the interface of the seven following search tools , restricting the analysis to features of interest to users : • Google
( http://wwwgooglecom/ ) ,
Altavista and
( http://wwwaltavistacom/ ) ;
• Yahoo
( http://wwwyahoocom/ )
Excite ( http://wwwexcitecom/ ) web directories and meta searches . Yahoo has its own search engine . and
• HotBot is a meta search which permits customizing the user interface ( http://wwwhotbotcom/ ) ;
• Vivisimo is a meta search which performs on fly clustering of results ( http://vivisimo.com/ ) ;
• Kartoo is a meta search which represents results with a series of interactive maps ( http://wwwkartoonet/ )
1.1 Search engine interfaces Considering the usefulness of search tools , it is very important to make them accessible to and usable by anyone , regardless of their physical condition or environment . Accessibility guarantees use to all ; accessible design ensures graceful transformation , as well as understandable and navigable content . Usability renders Internet navigation more effective , efficient and satisfactory . In [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] a possible combination of accessibility and usability for the visually impaired is considered , since both aspects are crucial to those who must depend on the aid of special devices in order to navigate . The user interface is composed of many features such as : • Arrangement of components . This point is very relevant because value enhancing features are more “ visible ” when positioned in an area rapidly encountered by eye movement and do not require page scrolling . For example , the refinement function of Google , which allows searching into results , is not very obvious thanks to its position and font
430 •
( size and color ) : it is found at the end of page results , so inexpert users may not benefit from them . Expressive power : a visual representation can communicate certain kinds of information much more rapidly and effectively than other methods [ 3 ] .
• Number of elements . Simplicity helps unskilled users navigate the interface easily . Web directories are organized according to categories of goods and services offered . Depending on the type of search it may be more appropriate to utilize a search engine or directory . On the other hand , their interfaces are quite full and can create confusion in an unskilled user who wishes to formulate a search query . Functions . A user typically performs a simple search and specifies one or more words , obtaining a large set of results . Further criteria selection can be specified to restrict search on the results . Preferences and commands , although very powerful , are rarely used , even by skilled persons .
•
• Clustering of results permits users to explore results grouped by categories . In this way users can navigate a single branch of results more efficiently .
As we mentioned before , this work in progress represents the first stage of a study concerning the usability and accessibility of popular search engines . As a first step we verified the conformity of W3C accessibility guidelines [ 4 ] by using automatic tools ( validators ) : Bobby ( http://bobbycastorg/ ) and Torquemada ( http://wwwwebxtuttiit/testahtml ) The test was performed on four types of interface : home page ( simple search ) , advanced search interface , preferences and results pages . Concerning usability , when a user interacts using special devices such as a screen reader , there are no standard guidelines for performing an evaluation by means of an automatic tool . In [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] usability criteria for improving web navigation using a screen reader have been proposed , by which a first inspection evaluation could be carried out . However , even a non disabled user may have difficulty using search engines . Testing with different categories of users is fundamental to discovering the source of difficulties . As a second step , in order to collect user feedback , we drew up and distributed a four part questionnaire divided into : user characterization ; general knowledge of search tools ; use of simple/advanced search interface and preferences ; difficulties . The questionnaire was distributed to a population equally divided into women and men , age ranging from 20 – 60+ years , of whom 50 % use the computer at work , and 25 % are blind .
2 . DISCUSSION Of all tools analyzed , only Google conformed to priority 1 of WCAG 1.0 [ 4 ] meaning that it satisfies a minimal level of accessibility ( level A ) , whereas other search engines , directories and meta searches presented some priority 1 errors . Analyses showed that errors are common , not only between interfaces of the same search tools , but also between those of different search engines . For instance , tables are frequently used for the layout of page results , ignoring the needs of visually impaired persons for whom a sequential reading renders access very difficult . In some interfaces , we found that the same error was present in one part of the code but not in another . This clue suggests that various page updates had been performed by different tools/persons , resulting in inconsistent attention to accessibility . Questionnaire results offer some useful information : normal users declared they could find what they were looking for on nearly every search , while some visually impaired individuals have problems . In general , users insert more than one word in their queries and explore only the first two pages of results . It is remarkable that 80 % of impaired people think it is not always easy to use search tools , while normal users consider it easy . On the other hand 70 % of the entire population have difficulty choosing the right keywords for the queries , while visuallyimpaired users report difficulty reading search results . In our opinion a driven query and results refinement may improve search engine quality . We believe that user interfaces need more interactivity : they should be more adaptable to user needs . User Centered Design ( UCD ) is a philosophy that places the person ( his tasks and goals ) at the center of the design and a process that focuses on cognitive factors ( ie perception , memory , learning , problem solving ) used by people when interacting with things . Thus the user interface must satisfy graphic requirements , balancing expressive power with simplicity as well as logic . To render content easily understandable and navigable is difficult , but it provides substantial advantages . An increase/decrease in customers leads to increased/loss of revenue . Investing in accessibility yields many returns in terms of the future : UserCentered Design cuts costs and increases user satisfaction and productivity . In conclusion , web contents and search tools should be easily available to all , including the disabled . User interfaces can be improved . This should be simple for search engines in terms of code revision , and would benefit all users , making it possible to reach a larger number of people .
3 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We’d like to thanks all the participants to our investigation . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Leporini , B . , Paternò , F . , 2002 . Criteria for Usability of Accessible Web Sites . In proceedings of the 7th ERCIM Workshop "User Interfaces for All" , Paris ( Chantilly ) , FR , 23 25 Oct "Universal Access : Theoretical Perspectives , Practice , and Experience" published by Springer Verlag , Lecture Notes in Computer Science n.2615 ( 2003 ) , pp . 43 55 .
2002 ,
[ 2 ] Leporini , B . , Paternò , F . , 2003 . Increasing Usability when Interacting through Screen Readers . Springer International Journal Universal Access in the Information Society ( UAIS ) , Special Issue on "Guidelines , Standards , Methods and Processes for Software Accessibility" ( in press ) .
[ 3 ] Marti A . Hearst , User Interfaces and Visualization , In Modern Information Retrieval by Ricardo Baeza Yates and Berthier Ribeiro Neto , published by Addison Wesley ( 1999 ) , pp257 323
[ 4 ] WAI Accessibility Guidelines . Web Accessibility Initiative ,
W3C Consortium , 1999 . http://wwww3org/wai
431
