Semantic Web Applications to E Science in silico
Experiments
Jun Zhao
University of Manchester
Kilburn Building , Oxford Road Manchester , United Kingdom zhaoj@csmanacuk
Carole Goble
University of Manchester
Kilburn Building , Oxford Road Manchester , United Kingdom carole@csmanacuk
Robert Stevens
University of Manchester
Kilburn Building , Oxford Road Manchester , United Kingdom robertstevens@csmanacuk
ABSTRACT This paper explains our research and implementations of manual , automatic and deep annotations of provenance logs for e Science in silico experiments . Compared to annotating general Web documents , annotations for scientific data require more sophisticated professional knowledge to recognize concepts from documents , and more complex text extraction and mapping mechanisms . A simple automatic annotation approach based on “ lexicons ” and a deep annotation implemented by semantically populating , translating and annotating provenance logs are introduced in this paper . We used COHSE ( Conceptual Open Hypermedia Services Environment ) to annotate and browse provenance logs from myGrid 1 project , which are conceptually linked together as a hypertext Web of provenance logs and experiment resources , based on the associated conceptual metadata and reasoning over these metadata .
Categories and Subject Descriptors E.5 [ Data ] : Files ; H28 [ Information Systems ] : Database Management—Database Applications ; H54 [ Information Systems ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia
General Terms Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords provenance , integration , annotation , ontology , Semantic Web , eScience
1 .
INTRODUCTION e Science in silico experiments complement traditional lab work by using computer based information repositories and computational analysis to test a hypothesis , search for patterns , or demonstrate a known fact . myGrid , as a pilot e Science research project in the UK , intends to build a personalized workbench for biologists and bioinformaticians to enact in silico experiments , and to organize variety of experiment resources ( like data , services , experiment designs , conclusions , etc ) . Data results from in silico experiments are of reduced value without provenance , which records the
1http://wwwmygridorguk
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . lineage of data , experiments , and the context information of experiments . Provenance is helpful to evaluate a scientific hypothesis , to share results and avoid duplication of work , to verify the credit and accountability of scientific discoveries and to trace the ownership and version of data .
Complex interlinking information reside in collections of provenance logs . In practice , users expect higher level linkings between provenance logs to support drawing experiment conclusions . The Semantic Web , as an extension to the current Web , greatly succeeds in defining and linking documents or resources based on the associated conceptual metadata for more effective knowledge discovery , integration and cooperation across computers and people . By annotating provenance logs with a suite of commonly shared bioinformatics and other generic ontologies [ 2 ] , we aim to conceptually link provenance logs and other experiment resources together , to give a higher level of view over these documents ; and provide a friendly interface for querying by navigation through these documents , supported by COHSE [ 1 ] .
2 . COHSE
COHSE integrates three technologies : an Ontology Service , which uses rich knowledge representation techniques and reasoning abilities to produce a machine processable semantics to the conceptual metadata associated with documents , and the relationships between these concepts ; an Annotation Service , which annotates documents or sections of documents with concepts from the ontology and maintaining the mappings from concepts to documents ; and a Link Service , which generates target links for the concepts associated with Web documents and displays links in a hierarchy supported by the reasoning of the Ontology Service . COHSE supports both proxy based and browser based annotation approaches . In this project , we adopted the browser based approach for annotation and conceptual linking .
Annotations are stored and managed as independent objects in COHSE . A central link base , implemented in a mySQL database , holds all the annotations and provides an HTTP/CGI interface for inserting and querying the annotations . When COHSE loads a new Web page , the Link Service retrieves all the words that appear in the page . By identifying all the concepts in the page through the lexicon and the Annotation Service , the Link Service in COHSE contacts the Annotation Service to identify target links to other URLs with corresponding concepts as inferred by the Ontology Service . Consequently , we are able to link Web pages together based on the concepts associated with their contents . By changing the ontology , we can get different link “ views ” over those resources .
Figure 1 : Linked Logs through Semantic Annotations .
3 . ANNOTATING PROVENANCE LOGS
When a biologist , whose research interest is human genetics , plans to run experiments in the myGrid workbench , in order to find new genes in the critical region that leads to a DiseaseX , he wants to navigate linked provenance logs from repeated experiment runs in order to compare and verify the results , and test his hypothesis . Also he hopes to discover supporting materials , like research literature , experience materials from his colleagues , etc .
By a manual process annotation authors can recognize concepts for scientific data and services from documents and manually annotate the corresponding concepts with these objects . Thus provenance logs are conceptually linked together based on the associated semantic metadata . But the process of manual annotation is timeconsuming and error prone , which motives our research in automatic and deep annotation .
In the process of automatic annotations , language terms are recognized by the control of DOM ( Document Object Model ) objects in documents and unsupervisedly mapped to lexicons in an ontology . So the home page of the biologist ’s colleague ( a human geneticist ) can be linked to the provenance log run by him , based on the underlying semantic concepts in respective document and their relationships that “ Human Geneticist ” is somebody who studies “ Human Genetics ” . But this automatic annotation currently is not intelligent enough for complex term mappings and can easily result in redundant linkings between documents .
In myGrid project , for each experiment run , there is a corresponding file which provides semantic information about the data and services invoked in the experiment . “ Deep annotation ” is a process exploiting the semantic information from these files , for each data and service object in the experiments , based on the unique identifiers of these objects which are applied in both information resources . Thus deep annotation saves users from recognizing and annotating documents by hand , and applies more professional concepts , like bioinformatics terms , to complex scientific data . As shown in Figure 1 , provenance log of an experiment run by the bi ologist which uses a Affymetrix probe set id ( a semantic concept ) as input is semantically linked with other provenance logs which use Affymetrix probe set id as either input , output or parameter for services invoked in an experiment . Links to these logs are provided to the biologist in the pop up window ( Figure 1 ) nearby the annotated concept in the log . So the user can browse these conceptually linked logs by just pointing and clicking .
Our semantically linked provenance logs successfully provide a higher level view between these logs and experiment resources . Currently , this deep annotation design is based on a single bioinformatics ontology . myGrid is working on building an annotation template which supports annotating with multiple ontologies and expects to improve the provenance model with richer semantic ability .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS myGrid project , grant number GR/R67743 , is funded under the UK e Science programme by the EPSRC . The authors would like to acknowledge the other members of the myGrid team for their contributions ; Sean Bechhofer who developed the COHSE system ; Yeliz Yeslida for her help in getting COHSE up and running . We also thank Mark Greenwood and Chris Wroe for their help during our annotation implemetation process .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Bechhofer , L . Carr , C . Goble , and W . Hall . Conceptual Open Hypermedia = The Semantic Web ? In SemWeb2001 , The Second International Workshop on the Semantic Web , Hong Kong , May 2001 .
[ 2 ] C . Wroe , R . Stevens , C . Goble , and M . Greenwood . A suite of
DAML+OIL Ontologies to Describe Bioinformatics Web Services and Data . International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems , 12(2):197–224 , 2003 .
