Next Generation Web Technologies in Content
Management
Norberto
Fern´andez Garc´ıa Telematic Engineering
Department
Carlos III University of Madrid
Avda . Universidad , 30 Legan´es , Madrid , Spain berto@ituc3mes
Luis S´anchez Fern´andez
Telematic Engineering
Department
Jes´us Villamor Lugo Telematic Engineering
Department
Carlos III University of Madrid
Carlos III University of Madrid
Avda . Universidad , 30 Legan´es , Madrid , Spain
Avda . Universidad , 30 Legan´es , Madrid , Spain luis@ituc3mes jvl@ituc3mes
ABSTRACT The development of information and communication technologies and the expansion of the Internet means that , nowadays , there are huge amounts of information available via these emergent media . A number of content management systems have appeared which aim to support the management of these large amounts of content . Most of these systems do not support collaboration among several , distributed sources of managed content . In this paper we present a proposal for an architecture , Infoflex , for the efficient and flexible management of distributed content using Next Generation Web Technologies : Web Services and Semantic Web facilities .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Systems ] : Information Storage and RetrievalOnline Information Services
General Terms Design
Keywords Content Management , Web Services , Semantic Web
1 .
INTRODUCTION
At different application domains , there exists the need to offer a service that permits managing , producing and offering quality information . The entities devoted to the production and/or the storage of contents must face several requirements . Some of them are :
( cid:127 ) Content creation and manipulation management . ( cid:127 ) User Profile Management . ( cid:127 ) Decision criteria on the contents to be published . ( cid:127 ) Integration of several fragments in one document ( ie constructing a web page from several content sources ) . for
( cid:127 ) Validation of published contents .
In this paper , we show an architecture ( currently at development process ) for the management of flexible and distributed contents : Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . the Infoflex System . The objective of such system is to provide all the required facilities of up to date Content Management Systems ( CMSs ) , while improving their capabilities for accessing distributed and heterogeneous content sources . As far as we know , the novelty of our approach is the use of Web Services and Semantic Web technologies to allow a client ( human or computer system ) to retrieve information from different distributed and heterogeneous CMSs and to perform a unique query on several of such systems .
This paper is organised as follows . Section 2 introduces how Web Services are used in our framework . Section 3 introduces the uses of Semantic Web facilities in Infoflex . Section 4 describes the proposed working model and architecture . Concluding remarks complete this paper .
2 . WEB SERVICES IN INFOFLEX
Web Services [ 7 ] have been defined as self describing applications that can discover and engage other web applications to complete complex tasks over the Internet . This technology was designed to ease the cooperation among remote applications .
The interoperability model proposed by Web Services perfectly fits our distributed contents access requirements . The choice of Web Services as communication mechanism provides several advantages :
Interoperability and platform independence because Web Services provide a standard text based communication mechanism .
Service location we can use the service location facilities of Web Services to help clients to locate content sources in a dynamic manner .
Service cooperation using BPEL4WS ( Business Process Execution Language for Web Services ) [ 2 ] , we can define complex interactions based on the coordination and cooperation of different Web Services . This way , complex tasks can be performed easily .
3 . SEMANTIC WEB IN INFOFLEX
The Semantic Web [ 3 ] was born with the idea of making information “ understandable ” by machines . Basically this requires to describe data using metadata and define the semantics of such metadata in ontologies .
In the scope of the Infoflex system , Semantic Web facilities are used to deal with heterogeneity of content sources ( differences in
260 4 . The CMS generates dynamically a BPEL4WS document . This document specifies all the steps ( WS invocations ) that Clients must follow to query the CMS . In our proposal , the document is obtained by the Clients using a WS , which is registered by the CMS in a UDDI .
5 . The Client access the UDDI looking for the CMS . It obtains the reference of its WS .
6 . The Client invokes the Web Service of the CMS . It obtains as the result the BPEL4WS document . The Client executes this document to retrieve the desired information .
7 . During the execution , the Client writes a query , using concepts in the general ontology . The BPEL4WS execution engine uses this query ( as is indicated in the BPEL4WS document ) to invoke the QS , which translates it to the CMS model .
8 . The obtained translated query is automatically used by the BPEL4WS engine to invoke the CMS and retrieve the desired information ( if it is avaliable ) .
We have implemented a first prototype of Infoflex system achieving good results in interoperation of a client with an XML/XPath based content provider and a Relational/SQL based content provider .
5 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we have presented a proposal of an architecture for the management of contents in a flexible and distributed manner . This proposal is based on advanced Web technologies such as Web Services or Semantic Web ones . We expect for this system to be useful at environments like business to business portals , news agencies or content syndication sites .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work has been partially financed by the “ Ministerio de Ciencia y Tecnolog´ıa de Espa˜na ” ( Science and Technology Ministry of Spain ) through the TIC2003 07208 “ InfoFlex ” Project .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Amann , B . , Beeri , C . , Fundulaki , I . & Scholl , M . Ontology
Based Integration of XML Web Resources . ISWC 2002 , LNCS 2342 , pp 117 131 , 2002 .
[ 2 ] Andrews , T . , Curbera , F . , Dholakia , H . , et al . Business
Process Execution Language for Web Services . Version 1.1 Specification . 2003 .
[ 3 ] Berners Lee , T . , Hendler , J . , Lassila , O . The Semantic Web .
Scientific American . Vol 284 , n 5 . 2001 . pp 34 43 . [ 4 ] Maier , A . , Schnurr H.& Sure , Y . Ontology Based
Information Integration in the Automotive Industry . ISWC 2003 , LNCS 2870 , pp . 897 912 , 2003 .
[ 5 ] World Wide Web Consortium . OWL Ontology Web
Language Guide . http://wwww3org/TR/owl guide/
[ 6 ] World Wide Web Consortium . Resource Description
Framework ( RDF ) . http://wwww3org/RDF/
[ 7 ] World Wide Web Consortium . Web Services Activity . http://wwww3org/2002/ws/
Figure 1 : Architecture and Working Model data models , in data storage formats , etc ) . We propose to annotate the information of each content source with metadata ( using for example RDF [ 6] ) . This metadata will be described by a content provider specific ontology ( written in OWL [ 5] ) . To achieve the interoperation of different sources , modelled with different ontologies , we must define a general , consensual ontology and mapping rules between this general ontology and each specific one . A special kind of Web Service , that we call Query Server ( QS ) will store the ontologies and the mapping information . This service will allow semantic translation between general and provider specific ontologies .
Other approaches to use ontologies in integration of heteroge neous data sources can be found at [ 4 , 1 ] .
4 .
INFOFLEX WORKING MODEL
In this section we will introduce the proposed working model of our Infoflex framework . The main actors involved in the full process are :
Clients who request information using a specific query language . It will be XML
This language has not been defined yet . based .
Query Servers which translate queries from the model represented in the general ontology ( used by the Client to make his queries ) to the CMS information model .
Content Management Systems ( or Content Providers ) which store and manage the requested information .
UDDI repositories where all the Web Services involved on this scenario are registered .
In figure 1 , we can see the steps which are necessary to obtain information from one provider . These are :
1 . The Query Server registers two Web Service interfaces ( one for clients , other for CMSs access ) into an UDDI repository .
2 . The CMS access the UDDI looking for the Query Server .
3 . The CMS registers its ontology in the Query Server .
261
