On the Temporal Dimension of Search
Philip S . Yu
IBM TJ Watson Research Center
19 Skyline Drive
Hawthorne , NY 10532 psyu@usibmcom
Xin Li
Bing Liu
Department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago
Department of Computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago
851 South Morgan Street , Chicago , IL 60607 7053
851 South Morgan Street , Chicago , IL 60607 7053 xli3@csuicedu liub@csuicedu to
ABSTRACT Web search is probably the single most important application on the Internet . The most famous search techniques are perhaps the PageRank and HITS algorithms . These algorithms are motivated by the observation that a hyperlink from a page to another is an implicit conveyance of authority to the target page . They exploit this social phenomenon identify quality pages , eg , “ authority ” pages and “ hub ” pages . In this paper we argue that these algorithms miss an important dimension of the Web , the temporal dimension . The Web is not a static environment . It changes constantly . Quality pages in the past may not be quality pages now or in the future . These techniques favor older pages because these pages have many in links accumulated over time . New pages , which may be of high quality , have few or no inlinks and are left behind . Bringing new and quality pages to users latest information . Research publication search has exactly the same problem . This paper studies the temporal dimension of search in the context of research publication search . We propose a number of methods deal with the problem . Our experimental results show that these methods are highly effective . Categories & Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage AND Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval Search process , Selection process . General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation . important because most users want the is
Keywords Temporal dimension of search , publication search , Web search .
1 . INTRODUCTION The most successful Web search techniques , PageRank [ 2 ] and HITS [ 6 ] , exploit the hyperlink structure of the Web to find quality pages such as “ authorities ” and “ hubs ” [ 1 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] . However , an important factor that is not considered by these techniques is the timeliness of search results . In this paper , we study search from the temporal dimension . This dimension is essential when users look for the latest information . We believe that the temporal dimension of search is of great importance to the future developments of search technology . In this paper , we take the first step towards this direction . We investigate this problem in the context of research publication search [ 8 ] because of two reasons . First of all , results in the research publication domain can be objectively evaluated , as all the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17 22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . citation data of the paper collection are available . Secondly , concepts in both academic citation and Web domains are largely the same . For example , a research paper corresponds to a Web page , and a citation of a research paper corresponds to a hyperlink in a Web page . We present a number of methods to incorporate time dimension in paper search . These methods are evaluated experimentally . The results show that the proposed methods are highly effective .
2 . THE PROPOSED TECHNIQUES There are many factors that contribute to the potential importance of a paper , such as the citations it has received , the date of these citations , its authors , and the publication journal . PageRank only includes the first factor , the citations that a paper receives . To integrate the time dimension , we add timing factors in the PageRank and propose the TimedPageRank algorithm . 2.1 TimedPageRank Since we are interested in both a paper ’s current importance and its potential , we modify PageRank by weighting each citation according to the citation date . The system calculates the timeweighted PageRank ( PRT ) value for each paper as follows :
T
PR
A )(
−= 1( d
) wd ×+ (
1
× PR T pC ( 1
( ) p 1
) w n
++
× PR pC (
T n
( ) p n
)
)
( 1 ) where
PRT(A ) is the time weighted PageRank score of paper A , PRT(pi ) is the time weighted PageRank score of paper pi that links to paper A , C(pi ) is the number of outbound links of paper pi and d is a damping factor , which is set to 085
Equation ( 1 ) is a modified version of the original PageRank . In this equation , we introduced the timed weight for each citation , wi . Its value reduces exponentially with the citation age ; the base of the exponential function is DecayRate . DecayRate is a parameter ( we use 0.5 in our experiments ) . Note that if DecayRate is 1 , the time weighted PageRank algorithm will be the same as the original PageRank algorithm . In addition , the DecayRate parameter can be tuned according to the nature of a dataset/the user . After the current importance of a paper is evaluated , we also want to know how the importance changes in the future year . Our experimental data show an obvious trend that a new paper is more likely to draw citations than an old paper . Therefore , another parameter called the agingfactor , Aging(A ) ( which is in [ 0 , 1] ) , is introduced . In our experiments a brand new paper ’s agingfactor is 1 . After the publication , it declines linearly with
448
Table 1 : Comparison results of different methods using all papers
1
No . of top papers
10 20 30
3
2 Original PageRank 2516 3406 4024
44 % 46 % 48 %
5
4
TPR
6
7 TPR ( AJEval )
9
8
LR
11 10 LR ( AJ Eval )
3982 5258 6144
70 % 72 % 73 %
4212 5435 6306
74 % 74 % 75 %
4219 5371 6385
75 % 73 % 76 %
4136 5457 6519
73 % 74 % 78 %
Best citation
12 count 5661 7345 8406 time , and its range is from 0.5 to 1 . Thus , a paper A ’s final TimedPageRank ( TPR ) is computed as follows :
TPR(A)= Aging(A ) * PRT(A )
( 2 ) 2.2 Source Evaluation : Author and Journal Although TimedPageRank is able to boost the rank of emerging quality papers , it is not sufficient for all the papers because new papers only have a few or no citation . To assess the potential importance of a new paper , its source information , its authors and the journal , are useful . We compute author evaluation by averaging the time weighted PageRank values of all the past papers of the author , and journal evaluation by averaging the time weighted PageRank values of all the papers published in the journal . We can evaluate paper based on its journal evaluation , or its author evaluation , or the combination of both . 2.3 Linear Regression Another simple technique that can be used to rank a paper is linear regression . That is , one can use citation count of the paper received in the past few years to perform a linear regression to predict the citation count in the coming year . This predicted citation count can be used as the score of the paper for final ranking . This method is fairly straightforward and will not be discussed further . Similar to TimedPageRank technique , linear regression will not be accurate if a paper is published only recently , and has only a few or no citation . In this case , we again used author and journal evaluation to score the new paper . In this case , author or journal evaluation can be done by using actual citation counts of all the papers of the author or journal . After they are computed , we can use the journal evaluation , or the author evaluation , or the combination of both to make the final source evaluation .
3 . EMPIRICAL EVLAUATIONS In our experiments , we used the research publication dataset from the KDD CUP 2003 . The documents are from an archive of High Energy Particle Physics publications . Our system ranks the papers that are relevant to a given query and presents to the user . For the purpose of this research , we assume that a paper is relevant to a query as long as it contains all the query words . We experimented with 25 queries . To evaluate the performance of proposed techniques , we do not compare their rankings directly . Instead , we compare the number of citations that the top ranking papers receive in the following year to evaluate our algorithms . Table 1 presents the experiment results . Only the results for the top 30 papers are given . The results are presented in 3 rows . Each row gives the total citation counts for a group of top papers based on different evaluation methods . Column 2 gives the total citation count for each group of retrieved top papers by
Original PageRank for all 25 queries , Column 3 gives the ratio of the total citation count for this method and the total citation count of the ideal ranking ( called best citation count given in Column 12 ) . Similar to columns 2 and 3 , column pairs , 4 5 , 6 7 , 8 9 , and 10 11 show the citation counts of retrieved papers , and the citation percentage for different techniques respectively . From the data in table 1 , we can draw the conclusion that both TimedPageRank and Linear Regression perform significantly better than the original PageRank . Moreover , the author and journal evaluation is helpful in improving the prediction results in most cases .
4 . CONCLUSIONS This paper studies the temporal dimension of search . So far , little research work has been done to consider time in either publication search or Web search . In this paper , we made an attempt to study this problem . A number of techniques to remedy the situation were proposed . Experiments have also been conducted to evaluate these techniques . Our results show that the proposed techniques are highly effective . Furthermore , the proposed methods can be conveniently adapted to Web search because concepts in the two domains are largely parallel . In our future work , we plan to conduct this research .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Arasu , J . Cho , H . Garcia Molina , A . Paepcke , and S . Raghavan . Searching the Web . ACM Transactions on Internet Technology , 1(1 ) , 2001 .
[ 2 ] S . Brin , L . Page . The anatomy of a large scale hypertextual Web search engine . Computer Networks and ISDN Systems , 30 , 1998 .
[ 3 ] A . Borodin , J . S . Rosenthal , G . O . Roberts , and P . Tsaparas , Finding authorities and hubs from link structures on the world wide web . WWW 2001 .
[ 4 ] S . Chakrabarti ,
B . Dom , D . Gibson ,
J . Kleinberg , P . Raghavan , and S . Rajagopalan . Automatic resource compilation by analyzing hyperlink structure and associated text . WWW 1998 .
[ 5 ] T . Haveliwala . Topic sensitive PageRank . WWW 2002 . [ 6 ] J . Kleinberg . Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment . ACM SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms , 1998 .
[ 7 ] J . Kleinberg , S . R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , S . Rajagopalan , and A . Tomkins . The Web as a graph : measurements , models , and methods . International Conference on Combinatorics and Computing , 1999 .
[ 8 ] S . Lawrence , K . Bollacker , and C . L . Giles . Indexing and retrieval of scientific literature . CIKM 99 .
449
