Time based Contextualized News Browser ( T CNB )
Akiyo Nadamoto
National Institute of Information and
Communications Technology
Hikaridai , Seikachyo , Kyoto , Japan nadamoto@nictgojp
ABSTRACT We propose a new way of browsing contextualized news articles . Our prototype browser system is called a Time based ContextualizedNews Browser ( T CNB ) . The T CNB concurrently and automatically presents a series of related pages for one news source while browsing the user specified page . It extracts the past related pages from a user specified news articles on the web . The related pages outline the progress of user specified news articles . We call the related pages ’contextual pages’ . Using the T CNB , a user only needs to specify one news article on the web . The user then automatically receives past related news articles , which provide a wider understanding of the topic . The T CNB automatically generates and presents contextualized news articles .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H52 [ User Interface ] : Windowing Systems ; I7m [ Document and Text Processing ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Design , Documentation
Keywords contextualized news articles , web browser , topic graph
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Currently , a huge volume of world news is reported on the web . News stories can be reported anytime , and can also change anytime . However , if you miss reading the news for a few days , it is difficult to grasp the progress of current stories . If we want to understand the progress of today ’s news stories , we have to search for related previous articles , and open and read them . We may also have to repeat this operation and we may have to read multiple time series news articles to understand the past progress of today ’s news . Some news sites present related news article anchors on their news pages , but we have to open and read them , and also have to repeat the operation . We cannot get related news articles simultaneously , and the process is tedious . We consider that it would be more convenient if a browser could concurrently and automatically present the user with news stories and their progress . In this paper , we describe a new browser called a Time based Contextualized News Browser ( TCNB ) . The T CNB extracts related web pages from user specified web pages and concurrently and automatically presents a series of past pages relating to one news source . The related pages outline Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
Katsumi Tanaka
Kyoto University
Department of Social Informatics , Graduate School of Informatics
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo ku , Kyoto , Japan ktanaka@ikyoto uacjp
Title
Image
User Specified
Page
Contextual Page
Passage of the contextual page
User specified window
( a )
Time based sequential window
Effect
Page Change
( b )
( c )
Figure 1 : User Interface the progress of user specified news articles . We call the related pages ’contextual pages’ . There have been many studies on news articles,[1],[2],[3 ] . The objective of much of them are to summarize multiple documents , but our research focuses on the computing of structure based topics and topic graphs .
The outline of the T CNB is as follows ; first , users specify news articles that they want to read on the news site . Then , the T CNB searches for contextual pages on the same web site based on the topic graph for the user specified page or pages that have been searched . In this time , the T CNB finds contextual pages that have different passages from similar web pages by using a topic graph . These pages then become candidates for contextual pages . Next , the system presents the passage of the contextual page automatically from oldest to latest by using passive viewing method .
2 . USER INTERFACE
Figure 1(a ) shows an image of the T CNB user interface . The left window shows a user specified page and the right window shows a component of a contextual page . The T CNB automatically presents contextual pages one by one , which users can without any interactions . A news source consists of a series of news articles on a time axis . Each contextual page presents a point in the whole of the
458 California
Firefighter
Bus h wildfire
Firefighter fire
California emergency president tour
( t1 )
( t2 )
( t3 )
California
Bus h wildfire
Firefighter president tour fire emergency
( a )
( b )
:s ubject term
:contentdes cribing term
Figure 2 : Example of Topic Graph news source . Users can understand the outline of a news source by connecting each contextual page in the series . In our system , contextual pages are presented automatically in time order in an animated Microsoft PowerPoint display . There is a fade and zoom effect when a page changes ( Figure 1(b) ) . The T CNB presents a list of the contextual pages when the display ends . This list consists of images and titles . When a user clicks the repeat button , the system restarts the animation . Clicking on a title brings up the web page for the contextual page ( Figure 1 ( c) ) .
3 . CONTEXTUAL PAGE
It is necessary for the T CNB to present similar pages that have meaningful differences . A news article has a main topic and several sub topics . Between related pages , the main topic may become a sub topic or a sub topic may become the main topic . We compare the change value of a set of topics by using a topic graph . Our concept of context relates to the similarities and differences between topic sets . In this way , a contextual page contains both similar and different topic sets . The T CNB extracts contextual pages using a topic graph . The topic graph is based on the topic structure , which consists of subject and content terms . 3.1 Extracting Topic Structure
For given page , its topic , , . , ,fi ' ' ' fi . is simply represented as a pair of a subject term , and a set , of contentdescribing terms . , consists of multiple content describing terms ( , , , ,fi ' ' ' fi , is noun and its term frequency is more than the threshold ff . ( , in a given page is intuitively the term that has a high cooccurrence relationship with , in the page . A web page may have more than one topic , and so , , is associated with multiple ( , . 3.2 Extracting Query Keywords Generating topic graphs The T CNB generates a graph from a web page by using the cooccurrence relationship among extracted subject terms and contentdescribing terms . We call the graph a topic graph . The topic graph is a undirected graph , in which each node corresponds to an extracted subject term or a content describing term . There are usually multiple connected components in the topic graph . Figure 2 shows the T CNB topic graph . In this case , the subject terms ” California ” and ” Firefighter ” co occur . The graph joins them , but the subject term ” Bush ” does not co occur with any other subject terms . Then , the topic graph for page consists of two connected component graphs . Thus , the system creates a topic structure for the web page . Extracting query keywords In the topic graph , the connected component that includes the largest number of terms ( vertices ) becomes the main topic of a web page ; other connected components become sub topics . The T CNB extracts query keywords from the main topic . The subject terms and content describing terms of the main topic become query keywords . Thus , the query keywords for the current page becomes , fi fi fi fi ( , ff ( ff ff ( . Here , ,fi fi and ( ,fi fi ( are the subject terms and content describing terms contained in the maximum connected component . 3.3 Selecting contextual pages
Our hypothesis for selecting contextual pages for page is ( 1)The main topic of page should have a high similarity to both of the main topic and sub topics of the contextual page ( 2)The sub topics of page should have a low similarity to both of the main topic and sub topics of the contextual page . The system extracts web pages that have similar main topic and some variation in sub topics . Similarity detection The T CNB computes the degree of similarity between the main topic of a current page and the connected components of past pages . Let fl and fl , be topic graphs for a current page and a past page , , respectively . The similarity degree of fl , with regard to fl is defined as follows : ffi . fl,fi fl
,
, fi . , ffl fl , ffl fl , fi ffl fl , fi ( ffl fl , where fl , and fl , , correspond to the main topics ( connected components having the largest number of vertices ) of fl and fl,respectively , fl , and fl , fi denote other topics , and ffl fl denotes the set of all the vertices of a graph fl .
The T CNB computes the above similarity degrees of retrieved past pages with regard to a current page , and selects only the past pages as contextual pages for whose similarity degrees are greater than a given threshold . Difference detection The difference degree of fl , with regard to fl is defined as follows :
. fl,fi fl ,  
,
  ,
,
,
, . fi . , ffl fl , ffl fl , fi ffl fl , fi ( ffl fl ,
If . is greater than the threshold Æ , the page becomes a can didate for a contextual page .
4 . CONCLUSION
We have described our Time Based Contextual Browser ( T CNB ) . The T CNB presents a user specified news page and related pages concurrently and automatically . It extracts related pages to the userspecified web page using topic graphs , which consist of the topic structure , and subject and content describing terms . The T CNB compares connected components in the topic graph , finds similarities and differences between each component , and extracts contextual pages . Moreover , the T CNB presents concurrently and automatically the related pages a series of one news source when user read he/she specified page .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M.Spitters and W.Kraaij , ” A Language Modeling Approach to Tracking News Events , ” TDT 2002 Evaluation workshop , Gaithersburg , MD , USA , 2002 .
[ 2 ] J.Allan , R.Papka , V.Lavrenko , ” On line New Event Detection and Tracking ” , Proc . of 21st International ACM SIGIR , pp.37 45 , August 1998 .
[ 3 ] Columbia ’s NewsBlaster site homepage http://www1cscolumbiaedu/nlp/newsblaster/
459
