CS AKTive Space : Representing Computer Science in the
Semantic Web mc schraefel , Nigel R . Shadbolt
Nicholas Gibbins , Hugh Glaser , Stephen Harris
School of Electronics and Computer Science
University of Southampton
Southampton , United Kingdom
{mc , nrs , nmg , hg , swh}@ecssotonacuk
ABSTRACT We present a Semantic Web application that we call CS AKTive Space1 . The application exploits a wide range of semantically heterogeneous and distributed content relating to Computer Science research in the UK . This content is gathered on a continuous basis using a variety of methods including harvesting and scraping as well as adopting a range models for content acquisition . The content currently comprises around ten million RDF triples and we have developed storage , retrieval and maintenance methods to support its management . The content is mediated through an ontology constructed for the application domain and incorporates components from other published ontologies . CS AKTive Space supports the exploration of patterns and implications inherent in the content and exploits a variety of visualisations and multi dimensional representations . Knowledge services supported in the application include investigating communities of practice : who is working , researching or publishing with whom . This work illustrates a number of substantial challenges for the Semantic Web . These include problems of referential integrity , tractable inference and interaction support . We review our approaches to these issues and discuss relevant related work .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H52 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : User Interfaces ; H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : On line Information Services—Web based services ; I21 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Applications and Expert Systems
General Terms Design , Human Factors
Keywords Semantic Web , Ontologies , Semantic Web Challenge
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Within the Semantic Web community , the field has reached a point where we wish to move from either language definition or the
1http://triplestoreaktorsorg/ SemanticWebChallenge/ Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , NY USA . ACM 1 58113 844 X/04/0005 . development of individual Semantic Web services towards a test of the larger Semantic Web project . We need to demonstrate the integration of both dynamic content acquisition/delivery and support services . There are numerous aspects to pulling together such a demonstrator application : how the content will be harvested and stored ; there are referential integrity problems to address ; queries over the space must be time efficient in returning results , and be robust in order to scale ; services must communicate with each other and the content ; the interaction and visualisation must afford both an effective model of the aggregated content as well as a means to interrogate the content meaningfully .
CS AKTive Space represents our effort to consider these issues directly in the context of an integrated semantic web application . It attempts to provide an overview of current UK University based research in Computer Science . The application exploits a wide range of semantically heterogeneous and distributed content relating to Computer Science research in the UK . It provides services such as browsing topics and institutions for researchers , it can show the geographic range and extent of where a topic is researched , provides an estimation of ‘top’ researchers in a topic and by geographic region , is able to calculate a researcher ’s Community of Practice . We chose this area for a number of reasons ; ( i ) we had a real interest in having such a set of services , ( ii ) it is a domain that we understand , ( iii ) it is relatively accessible and easy to communicate as a domain , ( iv ) we were able to secure access to a wide range of content that was not subject to industrial embargo , ( v ) it presented real challenges of scale and scope .
The application exploits a wide range of semantically heterogeneous and distributed content relating to Computer Science research in the UK . For example , there are almost 2000 research active Computer Science faculty , there are 24,000 research projects represented , many thousands of papers , hundreds of distinct research groups .
This content is gathered on a continuous basis using a variety of methods including harvesting and scraping [ 17 ] as well as other models for content acquisition . The content currently comprises around ten million RDF triples and we have developed storage , retrieval and maintenance methods to support its management [ 11 ] . The content is mediated through an ontology [ 3 ] constructed for the application domain and incorporates components from other published ontologies [ 21 ] .
CS AKTive Space supports the exploration of patterns and implications inherent in the content . It exploits a variety of visualisations and multi dimensional representations that are designed to
384 make content exploration , navigation and appreciation direct and intuitive [ 19 ] . As mentioned the knowledge services supported in the application include investigating communities of practice [ 5 ] and scholarly impact [ 16 ] .
This application , which won the 2003 Semantic Web Challenge [ 1 ] , illustrates a number of substantial issues for the Semantic Web which are described in more detail at [ 25 ] . There are issues to do with how to best sustain an acquisition and harvesting activity . There are decisions about how best to model the harvested content ; how to cope with the fact that there are bound to be large numbers of duplicate items that need to be recognised as referring to the same objects or referents ; the degree to which our content presents opportunities in terms of the sorts of inferential services we can support ; how we present the content so that inherent patterns and trends can be directly discerned must be considered ; how all this information is to be maintained and sustained as a community exercise is also an issue that needs to be addressed if the Semantic Web is to become a reality .
In this paper , we present the motivating scenario for CS AKTive Space that has provided a context for integration . We next describe the components of CS AKTive Space and the processes that can be run as a result . We describe the interaction design approach we use to integrate these components at the user interface ( UI ) level . We review related work and discuss the particular research challenges presented by the scenario , and our results to date .
2 . KNOWLEDGE ACQUISITION
2.1 The Role of Ontologies
Even in a distributed environment like the Semantic Web , the physical distribution of data is much less important than the semantic distribution of data brought about by the use of disparate ontologies for the same application domain . For the purposes of this application we have used a single common ontology to express the data which drives the CS AKTive Space . We use this common ontology , the AKT Reference Ontology [ 3 ] , to mediate and guide the integration of the different data sources .
When expressed in terms of our ontology , the RDF data obtained from these sources are made publicly available through the hyphen.info web site ( Hyphen being the name for the knowledge acquisition effort ) and cached in an RDF triplestore [ 11 ] which provides the necessary query and inferential capabilities on which CS AKTive Space is built .
Ontology mapping is seen as a key challenge in semantic web applications [ 15 ] . We have developed a method and a theory for ontology mapping and merging . The approach draws heavily on proven theoretical work but our work goes further in providing a systematic approach for ontology mapping with precise methodological steps . In particular , our method , Information Flow based Ontology Mapping ( IF Map ) [ 14 ] , draws on the proven theoretical ground of Information Flow and channel theory [ 6 ] , and provides a systematic and mechanised way for deploying the approach in a distributed environment to perform ontology mapping among a variety of different ontologies .
The IF Map system formalises mappings of ontology constructs in terms of logic infomorphisms , the fundamental ingredient of Information Flow . These are well suited for representing the bidirectional relation of types and tokens , which corresponds to concepts and instances in the ontology realm . IF Map is focusing on instances and how these are classified against ontology concepts . This reveals the operational semantics that the ontology ’s community has chosen by virtue of how it uses its instances . The IF Map algorithm makes use of this information in order to map onto re lated concepts from another ontology with which its concepts classify the same instances .
In this version of CS AKTive Space we have not included this ontology mapping capability since we have been responsible for engineering the mapping of the heterogeneous information content . In future it is likely that as we move to a push model of information provision we should provide the means to have local variants of ontologies mapping into our AKT computer science ‘standard reference’ ontology .
2.2 Mediators
Due to the wide variety of the data sources that we use , we have found it necessary to invest a degree of effort in developing individual mediators for each of our data sources that recast these sources in terms of our ontology . These mediators range from specialised database export scripts to XML transformation tools [ 17 ] that have been trained to extract the required content from semi structured web pages . Although these mediators are based on a common framework of code ( which handles the rote work of database access , HTTP retrieval , RDF construction and the more common patterns in our ontology , such as date and time expression ) , they each contain specialised capabilities that are tailored to the content and nature of the individual data sources . While the bulk translation of instance data by such a mediator is straightforward , our use of these mediators has shown that the mapping of existing structured and semi structured data at the schema/ontology level is not a task that can be effectively automated in all cases ; the investment of effort in building mediators for our common ontology is reflected in the consequent perceived value of the knowledge base to which they contribute .
The hyphen metadata gathered by these mediators consists of 430MB of RDF/XML files containing some 10 million RDF triples describing 800,000 instances of people , places , publications and other items of interest to the academic community .
2.3 Exploitation of Distributed Content
The CS AKTive Space application requires that a range of content be available for use by the system . As it stands , some of this content already exists in suitable structured forms , while others do not . We adopt a pragmatic attitude that reflects that fact that although the content that we are gathering is the prime mover that drives the interface , we should also be tolerant of inconsistencies in that content . We use a relatively scruffy approach in which we make the immediate best use of the available data sources , perhaps in an imperfect fashion , while anticipating that we will be able to make better use of them in future . Although this comes at a cost ( there is an implicit commitment to future knowledge maintenance ) , such early exploitation of available content is necessary to initiate a community process that should be self sustaining in the future and so justify the investment of effort .
2.4 Models for Knowledge Acquisition
We employ both push and pull models of knowledge acquisition , where push and pull refer primarily to whether the publisher or consumer are responsible for translating the data into a form which is suitable for the consumer . The push model involves a data source ( the publisher ) choosing to express its data in terms of the ontology used by the CS AKTive Space . The publisher is solely responsible for the translation , so the consumer may simply retrieve the translated knowledge base without any further effort required on its part . In comparison , the pull model requires that the consumer takes a raw data source ( which may be published against some other ontology , or which may only exist as a set of unannotated webpages )
385 and construct a knowledge base from that data source .
In some ways , the pull model has advantages over the push model , in that the consumer has a much greater level of control over what information is encoded within the resulting knowledge bases and is better placed to be able to correct inconsistencies or to adapt to changes in the underlying common ontology , but this comes at the expense of a greater cost to the consumer , both in the acquisition phase of the knowledge lifecycle ( when a new data source is acquired ) , but particularly in the maintenance phase .
We use the pull model predominantly for large , comparatively static data sources ( for example , the list of countries and administrative regions given by ISO3166 ) , and as an interim solution for high value data sources that are of general interest to the community ( for example , the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council ’s database of research funding ) as a means to ‘pump prime’ the system with sufficient data to encourage other members of the community to participate by offering to push their local data sources to us ( the viral , rich get richer phenomenon that we later describe needs to start somewhere ) . In the longer term , we aim to encourage the owners of the majority of these pull model sources to move to a push model of delivery .
The issue of community participation is a difficult one , and it is worth bearing in mind that similar past efforts have foundered . The value of such a community dataset is largely derived from the fact that the community as a whole contributes to it . Conversely , if there are few contributing members , the cost benefit ratio for a single member ’s contribution is such that the effort required to generate that contribution ( ie to describe themselves ) is far greater than the perceived immediate benefits to that member .
We believe that the chief inducement to participation is to present members of a community with incomplete information about themselves . This forms a framework within which they can more fully describe themselves ; such a framework should obviate the initial reluctance of members to participate until they see others participating in the same effort .
3 . MAINTENANCE
3.1 Referential Integrity in the Semantic Web The current development of knowledge services on the Semantic Web raises a number of issues which are not commonly encountered in existing knowledge based systems , and which pertain to the distribution of knowledge and the difficulty of obtaining agreement on a conceptualisation in a distributed environment when there is no ultimate authority . One such issue is that of coreference , which arises when more than one Uniform Resource Identifier is used to refer to a given resource , and which causes particular problems when statements from different knowledge bases are to be combined .
While the semantics of the URIs used as names by the Semantic Web require that identical names must refer to the same entity , they do not require the unique names assumption . In the absence of any coordination between data sources , it is reasonable to assume that in most cases the unique names assumption holds within the domain of a single data source , but that it does not hold across the union of several data sources . Two data sources on the Semantic Web may contain statements that refer to the same resource , but by different URIs . When constructing a system like the CS AKTive Space which uses knowledge from different sources , we must be able to integrate the contents of these sources by mapping the URIs used by one source onto the URIs used by another .
In addition , Semantic Web resources are not necessarily digital artifacts like web pages which can be retrieved by resolving the
URI which names that resource ; URIs can also denote resources which are physical entities , such as people or organisations . Since URIs need not denote digital objects , it is not possible to resolve them and determine if two URIs are coreferent by comparing the objects that they denote . In fact , it is current common practice for Semantic Web agents to treat URIs as opaque symbols and to ignore any retrieval semantics that might otherwise be associated with them ( for example , the structure of an HTTP URI gives the necessary means for an agent to be able to retrieve the object indicated by that URI ) .
Unidentified coreferent entities present a problem for Semantic Web applications since they partition the information space in such a way as to reduce the recall of queries made in that space . Even if a SW application is able to use heterogeneous data sources by mediating them through a common ontology , it cannot be properly considered to have integrated those data sources if unnecessary coreferences exist for a resource that is described in more than one data source .
Within the context of a community resource like the CS AKTive Space , the most appropriate – and the simplest – solution to this issue is predominantly social in nature . The emerging knowledge base that is being collaboratively built by the community may be viewed as a gazetteer or name authority containing the agreed names that should be used to refer to entities in the application domain . It is here that the careful selection of data sources in the initial knowledge acquisition phase is important , since the resources that they describe are likely to be referred to in many other sources . We have complemented this social process where necessary by the use of heuristic techniques for identifying coreferent entities [ 4 ] and then coalescing them ( through the use of owl:sameAs assertions ) . By keeping the equality between entities as explicit assertions , rather than by making it implicit by rewriting gathered information to use canonical URIs for objects , we provide a means to roll back coreference resolution ( the process of identification is defeasible ) .
In addition to the purely automatic techniques , we have also developed a coreference editor which allows a user to vet the potential coreferent entities in a semi automatic manner . The entities are identified using the same heuristic techniques mentioned above , but the user is presented with the information about both entities and asked to judge whether the assertion of equality is correct or not .
4 . SERVICES
The core of the CS AKTive Space system is a series of – mostly HTTP – services that collaborate to provide the knowledge capabilities required by the user interface .
Currently the services that comprise CS AKTive Space are manually connected , using hard coded URLs to refer to the services . We would prefer a system in which the services are bound dynamically using service discovery techniques , to reduce brittleness and make the system less dependent on specific instances of services . The service level characterisation of this system , describing the interactions we would like to support using service discovery has been discussed in an AKT Project technical report [ 12 ] , and will be covered in Section 7 .
4.1 The Services
3store The ability to store and query the rapidly changing hyphen.info data lead to the requirement for an RDF triplestore capable of storing RDF data on the order of 25 million triples ( to allow for planned
386 expansion ) , and updating around 10 % of that daily , in a reasonable time .
To meet these requirements the RDF data is stored in a 3store server . 3store is a Free Software ( GNU General Public License [ 9 ] ) RDF triplestore that stores RDF triples in a SQL database , using an ontology independent schema for flexibility , scalability and efficiency reasons . The architecture is similar to the ones used in HYWIBAS [ 22 ] and SOPHIA [ 2 ] , though with a greater emphasis on query execution speed and with an underlying RDF representation replacing the frame logic representation [ 11 ] .
The server offers an RDQL [ 13 ] service that is used by the user interface and many of the other services . Typical RDQL queries issued by the interface are answered in a few milliseconds ( depending on network latency ) , and RDF metadata files can be asserted at a rate of around 1000 triples/second on commodity 80x86 Linux servers . This allows the interface to query and the KB to be updated interactively .
3store Browser In addition to its query service , 3store also provides a browser interface which enables users to ‘drill down’ and examine the entities identified by the CS AKTive Space explorer in greater depth . Although this interface is ontology and application neutral , it has a number of features which give users the means to use the information presented in CS AKTive Space .
The browser can explicitly indicate the origins of the statements which have been made about the entity being browsed ( alternatively , the context in which those statements were made ) , which provide provenance information about the statements ( where they came from , how they were obtained , when they were gathered ) . The browser also provides application level support for equivalence assertions between entities ; if different sources refer to an entity by different names ( URIs ) , and this correspondence between names is known , the browser presents a unified view across the different instances of that entity .
This ‘one size fits all’ approach is not appropriate for all applications , however , so 3store also provides facilities for the ( applicationspecific ) dynamic generation of webpages based on the instantiation of a webpage template by the results of a query .
Geographic Visualiser This service was developed specifically for this application and consists of a map with which the user may interact . It provides two distinct subsidiary services to the application as a whole .
1 . The map may be used as an output display . If the results of a query have a geographical basis , the locations of the returned elements ( for example , universities and research institutions ) are marked on the map .
2 . The map may be used as an input controller , in which queries may be constrained by selecting regions on the map .
These behaviours and information affordances are discussed fur ther in Section 5 .
Armadillo Armadillo [ 8 ] is a service for on the fly , user determined , directed knowledge acquisition from web pages , which can be used to opportunistically expand the knowledge base .
The service uses triplestore queries to determine what knowledge is already asserted regarding the instance to be populated , and to help resolve referential integrity issues [ 4 ] . This pre existing knowledge is then used to inform natural language searches ( over
Figure 1 : User interface featuring multicolumn queries and geographical visualiser and constraint controller a variety of web sources ) that extract further knowledge and assert it into the triplestore . In this way , future requests for information about the instance in question will potentially return more information .
Ontocopi Ontocopi is a Community of Practice [ 5 ] analysis service that identifies implicit communities by finding sets of instances associated with a selected instance in a knowledge base . Through the user interface , a user may request more detailed information on an individual , including their community of practice .
Ontocopi uses Ontological Network Analysis ( ONA ) to discover connections between the objects that the ontology only implicitly represents . For example , the tool can discover that two people have similar patterns of interaction , work with similar people , go to the same conferences , or publish in the same journals .
5 .
INTERACTION DESIGN
The main interaction paradigms of the web are browsing and searching . Both approaches restrict users to exploring discrete instances of information ( ie Web pages ) without a strong semantic sense of their association . Search results which produce pages of links create an implicit association among the pages , insofar as the returned pages contain the words given , but such an association can be distinct from a person ’s context informing the choice of those terms . While some projects have attempted to derive the semantic relevance of discrete search results , at least sufficiently to be able to group them into derived categories after the fact [ 27 ] , the unstructured nature of the Web makes exploring relationships among pages , or the information components within pages , difficult to determine . The value of being able to explore a domain rather than only query it , however , is well known [ 24 ] . Each approach affords complementary but distinct approaches to knowledge building . While search results focus on retrieving a specified set of instances , exploration affords discovery of the context of information and the relations among various points of contact of an instance within the rest of the domain . With the Semantic Web , we have the opportunity to leverage its ontological underpinnings in order to expose and make explorable the relations within a repre
387 sented domain space . In CS AKTive Space , we have foregrounded exploration as the core approach for interrogating the computer science domain .
To foreground exploration , we have combined several user interface models such as spatial layout and preview cues [ 19 ] , direct manipulation [ 7 ] and visual queries [ 23 ] . Indeed , part of our motivation for taking a more direct manipulation approach to the rich queries afforded by the semantic web is to make semantic web information more immediately accessible . We replace complex RDQL queries with real time , direct manipulation of a set of meaningful visual queries of a privileged set of attributes in the domain represented by our ontology . Situated within a spatial layout , the results of these queries are always available within a context of related information . Preview cues means that overview information is also made available in real time and in context so that users can readily determine if they wish to explore a particular attribute in more depth .
We have also extended the direct manipulation/visual query approach to provide additional interaction flexibility so that the user has increased control over how the information is organised for their access . These extensions have been achieved by leveraging the affordances offered by the semantic web ’s structured data representations . In the section below , we walk through the interface , describing these affordances for user determined orientation of information at each step .
5.1 Domain Exploration
511 Selection and Detail View
The top half of the CS AKTive Space UI features a spatial layout of a set of columns . The labels on the columns represent a set of queries against the ontology . In the example given below , the columns represent < Region | Research Area | Researcher > . The selection in the column to the left acts as a constraint on the results of the column to the right . When the user makes a selection of one ( or more ) of the instances in a column , the Detail View beneath the columns acts as a preview cue to provide overview information about the selected instance(s ) . The preview cue acts to support users’ decision making to determine whether or not they wish to continue down a particular path in the query they are building in the column area . As can be seen in Figure 1 , the selection of one instance in a column does not hide the remaining instances , nor does the new column replace the previous column . This approach is in contrast to the Web and some desktop UIs which are temporal rather than spatial . The Web ’s standard interface of clicking on a link in a page or a link in a hierarchical list is to replace the current page/part of the hierarchy with the next page/next branch of the hierarchy . This temporal approach , which requires context to be maintained in memory , while common , has been shown to perform less effectively than spatial layouts generally , which preserve context persistently in view . Temporal UIs have also been shown to have a significant negative age based effect [ 18 ] .
Thus , in the CS AKTive Space UI , the surrounding instances remain visible while the selected instance becomes highlighted . The combination of instance context , provided by seeing a selected instance in the context of other associated instances , along with detail about that selected instance , provides users with a fast means to interrogate relations among data . The representation of these queries visually means that they can be reformulated with new data quickly , simply by selecting different instances within a column . The detail view along with the instance selection context of the surrounding instances in the column view also means that users do not have to leave the context of the CS AKTive Space window in order to
Figure 2 : The 3store browser showing the rendering of an RDF instance for a researcher gain at least two kinds of information about a particular instance : breadth and depth . Context in the column view provides a persistent view of alternate instances which match the given criteria for the current set of data presented . The proximity of one instance to another may provide new information about that part of the domain which might spark a new query in itself , to explore in more detail , for instance , how the two instances are related . This awareness can expand the breadth of understanding of a domain . Context is represented persistently via the spatial layout of the multicolumn view . Persistence means that users can focus their energies on knowledge building with the information discovered , rather than on splitting their attention , and hence increasing cognitive load , between remembering which instance was next to another while focusing on the detail of a current selection . Similarly , the detail view provides specific information for the selected instance , enhancing the depth of knowledge about the instance , beyond the label value provided in the column view . The CS AKTive Space UI which includes both columns and detail view represents a way of supporting both focus and context [ 24 ] by supporting both users’ contextual exploration of the domain through rapid selections of instances within columns , and users’ focus on an instance , within the domain context of that selection .
Within the Detail View area as well , we have embedded a ‘Browse’ button . By selecting browse at any point , one is taken to the sources from the triplestore which inform the results presented in the detail view .
With this view into the triplestore sources , users are free to interrogate the provenance of any of the data represented in the main UI : the browse view has an option to view sources of the triples . This view presents the source URL of a given triple as well as the date it was harvested .
For the most part , the Browse Sources has been provided as a way to debug the data represented by those of us working on the CS AKTive Space project . The tool is also , however , an effective way for any user to check the integrity of the data and to explore the assumptions informing the representation ’s construction . This gives us a mechanism to better support users’ correction of data . By making these views available , they can for instance , tell us that
388 the URL that has given a particular set of address info is incorrect or out of date . Likewise , they can point us to alternative sources that our harvesting methods , described above , may not have yet discovered .
512 Inter Column Sorting
The selected set of columns can be thought of as representing one particular slice through the domain ’s multidimensional space . The default view in CS AKTive Space is < Research Area | Geographical Region | Person > . The columns , as described above , reflect a hierarchy where the column to the right is constrained by the column on the left . Thus , the selection of a research area in the first column constrains which geographical areas will be highlighted : only those locations which have departments with research being carried out in the selected topic . If a user is interested in all the research being carried out in southern England , with this configuration of the UI , the person would need to select each topic in the first column and perform an inspection to see which universities that result are listed in the south . It would be far simpler to be able to rearrange the columns to support geographical region first , and then get the list of research areas next . Interestingly , few category based Web indexes , from Yahoo to Amazon support this simple mechanism to allow a user to reorient a hierarchy based on their locus of interest . Beyond supporting more effective structuring of a query , this kind of inter column sorting allows the user to interrogate the data at any time from multiple perspectives in order to see how the information changes when recontextualised .
Inter column sorting is distinct from ordering a set of database results , for instance , which have various fields in them . For instance , when selecting southern England , a list of universities with CS departments in that region is populated into the Detail View . These results could be potentially ordered in a variety of ways : by region , alphabetically , numerically by phone number and so on . The result set from the initial query remains the same . By reorganising hierarchies , the search result sets will almost always change , the result of which can be , as we suggest above , informative in itself .
Inter column sorting , an extension on previous direct manipulation work , also supports user determined orientation of information . Unlike most web based representations of hierarchies where the ordering of the hierarchies is fixed , CS AKTive Space allows users to organise information the better to suit their focus of interest . A user with a better understanding of geographical concentrations of research may find it more valuable to start an exploration of a domain from a basis of familiarity , rather than starting with an inflexible default arrangement of the current slice through the multidimensional space .
513 Column Filters : Query Refinements
Part of the goal of CS AKTive Space is to make transparent the operations which produce a given result . In the researcher field , for example , a number of parameters can be selected to determine not only who , but how many who ’s show up in that column . The first parameter is labelled ‘top’ . Users can select to view the top 5 , 10 , 15 or just all researchers matching a given criteria from the previous columns .
The second parameter , RAE or Grant Total , represents how ‘topness’ is currently calculated : either by ranking in a national research assessment exercise , the criteria for which are well known in the modelled community of UK researchers , or by funding total from the national granting council for the sciences .
Neither of these metrics is perfect , and many may argue that neither in itself is a holistic measure of top ness . However , rather than hide the parameters of the query that support top ness , we expose them . This way , users can make their own assessments of the rankings . Indeed , the comparison between which researchers appear depending on which metric is selected is revealing in itself . Such filters , far from being ad hoc twists on the column representations , are derived from the data itself , and reveal more explicitly to the user the effect of any one attribute in creating a query result .
5.2 Example Walk Through
In order to contextualise the above interaction description , we present a brief walk through of the interaction pictured of CS AKTive Space in Figure 1 .
In the state pictured , the user has re sorted the column views from the default arrangement of < Research Area | Region | Researcher > to < Region | Research Area | Researcher > . The Region column shows that a 200 mile reticule has been selected in the map view , and the reticule has been dragged over part of the map representing southern England . From the list of research areas that shows up in the Research Area column , artificial intelligence has been selected . With the constraints on Researcher set as Top 5 , determined by Grant Total , the list of 5 people in AI with the greatest grant totals are represented . One of the researcher names has then been selected . The Detail View shows that that researcher is the current selection : it is populated with information about the researcher , including full name , contact information , URL and list of significant papers on the left two thirds of the view . In the right remaining third , the list of the researcher ’s community of practice is generated automatically by the CoP service described in Section 41 Finally , at the bottom of the CS AKTive Space window the user can activate the Armadillo service by clicking the ‘Run Armadillo’ service button . As described in Section 4.1 , Armadillo will search for additional information about this researcher to supplement the information already present in the triplestore . Browsing the sources for the selected researcher will show which sources have been found via an Armadillo session .
The final state of the UI shows both the context of discovery for the current selected information , as well as a look at some of the detailed information available in the triplestore and associated with the researcher .
5.3 CS AKTive Space Extensions
531 Swapping , Addition , Subtraction
The current CS AKTive Space application is a first instantiation of a semantic web based user interface that exploits the properties of the domain ontology in order to support context/exploration of the domain ‘out of the box’ . The innovation therefore is less in the UI design than in the application of this particular kind of spatial layout/visual query design for a Semantic Web application . In CS AKTive Space , for instance , information visualisation ( currently part of the geographical visualisation component ) is a feature of the complete interaction design , rather than being the sole model for information representation . In this respect , CS AKTive Space blends multiple kinds of interaction with multiple kinds of information representation to give the user a larger space from which to find meaningful access into the domain .
The interaction properties of spatial layout , inter column sorting and detail view are based on the mSpace interaction model [ 19 ] to support flexible exploration of a domain . There are interactions within the mSpace model that we have yet to implement , most particularly , column swapping , and column addition/subtraction . These attributes and their formal representations are described in detail in [ 10 ] , but in brief , column swapping allows users to swap
389 the attributes which define column headings ( effectively class expressions ) with another heading . For instance , Research Area might be swappable with Project or Awards or other class expressions . Likewise , users will be able to add or subtract these attributes , so rather than swapping project with research Area , a user may add that attribute for one query ( eg Project , Research Area , Geographical Region , People ) , and then subtract geographical area in the next ( Project , Research Area , People ) .
532 Second Level Zoom
The Detail view in the current CS AKTive Space application supports what may be called a first level zoom in on the current selection : the selected label is expanded to reveal more detail about it . We are looking at how to support second level zoom , in other words , to increase the detail about a current view in the detail view area . For instance , selecting the name of the researcher in the detail view might open up another view of the researcher which includes more information available in the triple store , such as list of research projects and their descriptions , graduate students under the researcher ’s supervision . Ideally , this second level zoom could produce a CV on demand , where its parameters could be tweaked to generate appropriate versions for distinct contexts .
5.4 Generalising CS AKTive Space
CS AKTive Space is specific to the computer science research domain , and may be viewed as a particular demonstration of the application of mSpace style interfaces to Semantic Web data . However , the application of this interface style to the Semantic Web in the more general case , which we call AKTive Spaces , is domainneutral . To this end , we have developed techniques for expressing the contents of the columns in an mSpace interface , and the constraints between those columns , in terms of a description logic ontology language such as OWL [ 20 ] . These techniques facilitate the principled construction of AKTive Spaces for new application domains , based on the structures inherent in the ontologies which are used to describe those domains .
In a brief sketch of this approach , we consider each column as a set of individuals which are the members of some class expression . This class expression is the intersection of the intrinsic type of the column ( in CS AKTive Space : people , institutions , research areas ) and a restriction on a property which relates this column and another column to the selected values in that other column ( eg institutions which have research groups that specialise in a selected research area ) . This approach opens up possibilities for more strongly correlating the interaction behaviours of a system with the semantics inherent in the information represented by that system .
We are currently implementing a framework for the construction of AKTive Spaces , drawing on our experiences of implementing our prototype CS AKTive Space system , and the investigation of techniques for automating the development of mSpace systems from ontologies . From this , we intend to develop an API and toolset to make deploying mSpace in OWL based Semantic Web applications a plug and play operation .
5.5 Summary
CS AKTive Space represents a light weight UI for exploring an ontology modelled domain . By leveraging the semantic affordances of the domain as spatially presented visual queries , it disguises the complexity of the sources , services and queries running real time beneath the interface . Hiding the complexity of the processes beneath a clear UI is exactly what we designed the CS AKTive Space application to do : our target users who wish to explore both the relations and details of the state of research in computer science in the UK do not necessarily want to know how many heterogeneous sources have gone into making up the result before them : they want the information , and based on that information to build up actionable knowledge .
6 . RELATED WORK
A number of applications on the Semantic Web ( and its precursors ) have informed the development of the CS AKTive Space and its ancillary technologies :
6.1 KA2 and Ontobroker
The KA2 Knowledge Acquisition Community Ontology was an early example of an ontology driven website designed to support a community . The content collected for the communal knowledge base was gathered almost entirely by the push model ; members of the community were encouraged to annotate their web pages with information that would be collected and collated to form the resulting knowledge base . From the point of view of the knowledge acquisition process , the most important difference between KA2 and CS AKTive Space lies in the granularity of data sources . In KA2 , the use of annotated web pages as data sources yields a large number of small sources that must be maintained individually , although Staab et al [ 26 ] do note , that this is a time consuming and costly task . The KA2 portal adopts a task neutral approach to their interface , as opposed to the task specific domain exploration that we espouse in the CS AKTive Space ; in the basic KA2 interface , queries are permitted on six axes ( classes of object ) with constraints from up to three axes applied conjunctively to the query .
While relatively successful as a proof of concept , the main failing of KA2 as a community endeavour was one of scale . The section of the knowledge acquisition community that took part was arguably too small for the effort to achieve critical mass and become selfsustaining , because the projected reward for participation ( namely having consistent information to which one would not normally have access ) was outweighed by the cost of participation in the short to medium term . In our development of CS AKTive Space , we have tried to harness economies of scale and progress past this initial hurdle by choosing a broader subject base ( so that there is a greater likelihood that users will encounter information of which they were not previously aware , thus a greater reward ) , and by investing in the construction of an initial high value knowledge base that provides an immediate reward to users and an incentive for further engagement .
6.2 SHOE
As with KA2 , SHOE relies on users annotating their web pages with relevant semantic markup that is harvested and aggregated in a communal knowledge base , although tools are provided for knowledge extraction from specific sources ( eg CiteSeer ) . As a family of technologies rather than an application for a specific domain , SHOE supports the use of multiple ontologies , which is one of its particular strengths , but does not use the same knowledge representation formalism as current Semantic Web languages . The primary interface to the knowledge bases constructed from SHOE markup is the Semantic Search query tool , which although ontology neutral , requires the user to specify the necessary characteristics ( property values ) of the objects to be returned by the search ( the existence of more domain and task specific interfaces is mentioned , but not elaborated upon ) . In comparison , the CS AKTive Space interface described in this paper aims to provide a user with a more flexible mode of interaction that eliminates the need to explicitly state the constraints on their query in this way .
390 6.3 Ontoportal
The Ontoportal project is an ontological hypermedia system that provides a navigable interface to a knowledge base expressed in a given ontology . The data used in an Ontoportal system is typically ( but not necessarily ) human authored , and is presented as a browser interface . However , the content behind this hypermedia interface is static ; the underlying infrastructure does not support query processing or inference , which results in a fixed page structure that provides only a single visualisation of the knowledge within . Our approach with CS AKTive Space has been to provide task specific visualisations of our gathered content , leveraged by the use of an RDF triplestore with suitable query and inferential capabilities .
6.4 S CREAM
S CREAM is a framework for creating metadata by applying annotations to web pages . S CREAM avoids the maintenance bottleneck associated with semantic annotation by employing natural language information extraction techniques to semi automate the annotation of documents . The tool used for this , Amilcare , produces a discourse representation for a document identifying the referents within the document that is then transformed into a set of annotations made against a given ontology . While the design of S CREAM does automate much of the process of document annotation , the definition of the mapping from the structures in the discourse representation of the document to the ontological structures in the intended annotation is carried out manually , as are the equivalent mapping rules in our mediators .
6.5 GIS Systems
There are a number of Geographic Information System ( GIS ) based visual query systems that are superficially similar to CS AKTive Space , with geographic range expressions . There are , however , a number of fundamental differences GIS database systems are often capable of resolving sophisticated geo spatial queries based on topological expressions , while the CS AKTive Space back end has only basic numerical comparison support , as this is not a development focus . Conversely , GIS databases do not have the inferential or semantic representation capabilities of a knowledge base , as they are mainly concerned with conventional database retrieval . Equally their visual user interfaces are generally designed for query construction , rather than domain exploration . Recent developments in this area include an integration of some knowledge base features , and ontologies have been used for some time for data integration .
7 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
It is our impression following the development of this interface that the inferential capability of RDF , combined with the structure provided by the ontology , allows for comparatively simple queries to perform tasks that would require substantially more complex queries in an RDBMS system .
The CS AKTive Space is offering a range of services , significant integration , and flexible interaction . We are dealing with millions of triples and yet it is still not enough . Despite our successful harvesting of the web and exploitation of various organisations’ RDF , we still cannot reflect the richness of the queries our system can support because we do not always have enough content .
We have a strong proof of concept , but to get to the point where CS AKTive Space becomes a meaningful application we need the content that we cannot get without participation . We need individuals and/or organisations to publish RDF content either directly against our ontology or else against an ontology we can translate . Participation cannot usually be enforced . Users have to see very strong benefits for the effort of publishing their content against our ontology .
We have started to see that happen within the UK CS community , and more recently , the eScience community . Interestingly , it is not simply the power of the back end tools that has provoked these inquiries and requests to apply CS AKTive Space to other domains ; it has been the user interaction . There is an immediate appeal to the fact that patterns and gestalts , particular and general content exploration can be so rapidly effected .
Many of us will have been frustrated by the fact that so often individuals and organisations , our managers and colleagues ask us for the same basic content in different formats and configurations . One of the attractions of mediating content through shared ontologies is that re presentation and repurposing of content becomes so much easier . A huge collective effort is made in the UK every few years to collect content about the state of research in Higher Education . This so called Research Assessment Exercise is important since the content collected goes on to form the basis of rankings of Department to particular grades . These grades are direct drivers on the funding departments receive . The clerical effort of collecting and make available this content is many hundreds of person years . Much of this effort is the equivalent of the semantic clerk – someone who has to work out how to integrate the various content into the formats required for the particular exercise . These sorts of requirement can provide an opportunity to convince communities and the organisations demanding the content that that for a little investment in Semantic Web engineering and ontology construction they could dramatically reduce the cost of repeated content collection .
One other issue , behind the content and behind the UI is service integration . One of the ways we have been dealing with the issue in AKT is , for the time being , ignore service discovery and focus on service integration with AKT partner technologies . Partners have worked to integrate their services with the central triplestore . What this means is that CS AKTive Space users have a variety of services they can invoke that we have evaluated as relevant to working with CS AKTive Space . Through the process of working through these integration problems we plan to have something to report about how these specific integration efforts can be generalised towards a loose protocol so that integration of dynamically discovered/requested services can be supported .
In the future we hope to include more component services . All the services have to be able to do is interrogate the triplestore and be able to take advantage of the ontological structures that provide our common models for content integration . We already have web services that can classify our research papers against our research area ontology . We are able to invoke a natural language learning service that is able to detect ontologically significant parts of texts and abstracts – titles , topics , authors and general term entity recognition . We are incorporating a dynamic link service and intend to provide a range of e scholar services such as detecting parts of the research area ontology that are rich in publications with various types of impact factor . One ambition is that in future RAEs the panels will not just have standard bibliometric evidence , number of citations and impact factors of journals . With a system like CS AKTive Space we will be able to engage in semiometrics – looking at a whole range of measures and content implicit in the Conventional Web and meta content explicit in the Semantic Web to build much richer views as to the real research activity underway in our discipline .
391 8 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the Advanced Knowledge Tech nologies ( AKT ) Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration ( IRC ) .
The AKT IRC is sponsored by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council under grant number GR/N15764/01 and comprises the Universities of Aberdeen , Edinburgh , Sheffield , Southampton and the Open University .
9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Semantic Web Challenge . http://challengesemanticweborg/ , 2003 .
[ 2 ] N . Abernethy and R . Altman . Sophia : Providing basic knowledge services with a common DBMS . Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Knowledge Represenation Meets Databases ( KRDB ’98 ) : Innovative Application Programming and Query Interfaces , 1998 .
[ 3 ] The AKT Reference Ontology . http :
//wwwaktorsorg/publications/ontology/ , 2002 .
[ 4 ] H . Alani , S . Dasmahapatra , N . Gibbins , H . Glaser , S . Harris ,
Y . Kalfoglou , K . O’Hara , and N . R . Shadbolt . Managing reference : Ensuring referential integrity of ontologies for the semantic web . In Proceedings 13th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management ( EKAW’02 ) , pages 317–334 , 2002 .
[ 5 ] H . Alani , S . Dasmahapatra , K . O’Hara , and N . R . Shadbolt .
Identifying communities of practice through ontology network analysis . IEEE Intelligent Systems , 18(2):18–25 , 2003 . http : //eprintsaktorsorg/archive/00000172/
[ 6 ] J . Barwise and J . Seligman . Information Flow : The Logic of
Distributed Systems . 1997 .
[ 7 ] R . Chimera and B . Shneiderman . An exploratory evaluation of three interfaces for browsing large hierarchical tables of contents . ACM Transactions on Information Systems ( TOIS ) , 1994 .
[ 8 ] A . Dingli , F . Ciravegna , and Y . Wilks . Automatic semantic annotation using unsupervised information extraction and integration . In Proceedings of SemAnnot 2003 Workshop , 2003 .
[ 9 ] Free Software Foundation . GNU General Public License . http://wwwgnuorg/licenses/gpltxt , 1991 . [ 10 ] N . Gibbins , S . Harris , and mc schraefel . Applying mspace interfaces to the Semantic Web . preprint : http://triplestoreaktorsorg/tmp/ mspace model.pdf , 2003 .
[ 11 ] S . Harris and N . Gibbins . 3store : Efficient bulk RDF storage .
In Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Practical and Scalable Semantic Systems ( PSSS’03 ) , pages 1–20 , 2003 . http : //eprintsaktorsorg/archive/00000273/
[ 12 ] S . Harris , N . Gibbins , H . Glaser , and mc schraefel .
Requirements for an integrated semantic web services application . Technical report , AKT Project , Nov . 2003 . ECSTR IAM03 006 .
[ 13 ] Hewlett Packard Labs . RDQL RDF data query language . http://wwwhplhpcom/semweb/rdqlhtm , 2003 .
[ 14 ] Y . Kalfoglou and M . Schorlemmer . IF Map : An ontology mapping method based on information flow theory . Journal of Data Semantics , 2003 .
[ 15 ] Y . Kalfoglou and M . Schorlemmer . Ontology mapping : the state of the art . The Knowledge Engineering Review , 18(2 ) , 2003 .
[ 16 ] S . Kampa . Who are the experts ? E Scholars in the Semantic
Web . PhD Thesis . University of Southampton , 2002 .
[ 17 ] T . Leonard and H . Glaser . Large scale acquisition and maintenance from the web without source access . In Workshop 4 , Knowledge Markup and Semantic Annotation , K CAP 2001 , pages 97–101 , Oct 2001 .
[ 18 ] mc schraefel , M . Karam , and S . Zhao . Listen to the Music :
Audio Preview Cues for Exploration of Online Music . In Proceedings of Interact 2003 Bringing the Bits Together , Zurich , Switzerland , 2003 .
[ 19 ] mc schraefel , M . Karam , and S . Zhao . mSpace : Interaction Design for User Determined , Adaptable Domain Exploration in Hypermedia . In Proceedings of the AH2003 Workshop on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web Based Systems , pages 217–229 , June 2003 .
[ 20 ] D . L . McGuinness and F . van Harmelen . Owl web ontology language overview . Recommendation , World Wide Web Consortium , 2004 .
[ 21 ] I . Niles and A . Pease . Towards a standard upper ontology . In
Proceedings of the international conference on Formal Ontology in Information Systems , pages 2–9 , Ogunquit , Maine , USA , 2001 .
[ 22 ] M . Norrie , U . Reimer , P . Lippuner , M . Rhys , and H . Schek .
Frames , objects and relations : Three semantic levels for knowledge base systems . Reasoning About Structured Objects : Knowledge Representation Meets Databases . In 1st Workshop KRDB’94 , pages 20–22 , 1994 .
[ 23 ] C . Plaisant , B . Shneiderman , K . Doan , and T . Bruns . Interface and data architecture for query preview in networked information systems . ACM Transactions on Information Systems ( TOIS ) , 17(3):320–341 , 1999 .
[ 24 ] D . Schaffer , Z . Zuo , S . Greenberg , L . Bartram , J . Dill ,
S . Dubs , Roseman , and N . N . M . Navigating hierarchically clustered networks through fisheye and full zoom methods . ACM TOCHI , pages 162–188 , 1996 .
[ 25 ] N . R . Shadbolt , N . Gibbins , H . Glaser , S . Harris , and mc schraefel . CS AKTive Space or how we learned to stop worrying and love the Semantic Web . IEEE Intelligent Systems , 2004 . In press .
[ 26 ] S . Staab , J . Angele , S . Decker , A . Hotho , A . Maedche , H P
Schnurr , S . Studer , and Y . Sure . Semantic community web portals . In Proceedings of the 9th International World Wide Web Conference , pages 473–491 , 2000 .
[ 27 ] Vivisimo . The Vivisimo Document Clustering Engine . http://wwwvivisimocom/ , 2002 .
392
