Semantic information portals
Dave Reynolds
Hewlett Packard Laboratories
Filton Road , Stoke Gifford
Bristol , UK
+44 117 3128165
Paul Shabajee
ILRT , University of Bristol
8 10 Berkeley Sq
Bristol , UK
+44 117 928 7185
Steve Cayzer
Hewlett Packard Laboratories
Filton Road , Stoke Gifford
Bristol , UK
+44 117 3127056 davereynolds@hpcom paulshabajee@bristolacuk stevecayzer@hpcom specific aspects are discussed below . Table 1 . Comparison of design approaches
“ Traditional ” design approach structured records ,
Search by free text and stable classification hierarchy . Information organized by encourages top down design and centralized maintenance . information and annotations within the defined portal
Community can add structure .
Portal content is stored and managed centrally .
Providers supply data through portal specific forms . Each portal is supplied and maintained separately . Portal aimed at human access . Separate mechanisms needed for sharing content with a partner organization .
Semantic portal updates .
Multidimensional search by means of rich domain ontology . Information semi structured and extensible , allows for bottomup evolution and decentralized classification and organizational
Communities can add new schemas and extend the information structure Portal content is stored and managed by a decentralized web of supplying organizations and individuals . Multiple aggregations and views of the same data is possible . Providers publish data in reusable form for incorporation in multiple portals . Updates remain under their control .
Information structure is directly machine accessible to facilitate cross portal integration .
ABSTRACT In this paper , we describe the notion of a semantic information portal . This is a community information portal that exploits the semantic web standards to improve structure , extensibility , customization and sustainability . We are in the process of developing a prototype directory of environmental organizations as a demonstration of the approach and outline the design challenges involved and the current status of the work . Categories and Subject Descriptors H40 [ Information Systems applications ] : General General Terms Design , Experimentation . Keywords Semantic Web , Information Portals . 1 . INTRODUCTION Web based information portals provide a point of access onto an integrated and structured body of information about some domain . They range from very broad domains ( eg all web pages [ 1 ] ) to topic specific domains ( eg mathematics [ 2 ] and fish species [ 3] ) . Community information portals are information portals , which are also designed to support and facilitate the activities of a community of interest . They typically allow members of the community to contribute news and information to the pool , either by submitting information directly to the portal ( via some editing or reviewing process ) or by posting the information on some associated web bulletin board or other collaboration tool . The semantic web standards [ 4,5 ] enable new approaches to the design of such portals . In particular , they offer standards for how information in portals can be represented . RDF [ 4 ] provides a flexible and extensible format for items and associated metadata ; OWL [ 5 ] supports explicit representation of the domain ontologies used to classify and structure the items . Together these enable a more decentralized approach to portal architectures , as we discuss in the next section . 2 . SEMANTIC INFORMATION PORTALS There are several advantages to using semantic web standards for information portal design . These are summarised in Table 1 , and
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17 22 , 2004 , New York , NY USA . ACM xxx . information
Ontologies : The use of an explicit , shared domain ontology enables multidimensional classification and browsing schemes . A standard format for ontology encoding also facilitates reuse . Several projects have already derived benefits from ontologydriven portal designs [ 6,7 ] . Evolution : Requirements change over time leading to extensions to the information model . The semantic web helps in two ways . Firstly , the user interface and submission tools can be generated from the declarative ontology . Secondly , the semi structured data representation of RDF permits data to be added in a new format , without invalidating existing data , in such a way that both original and extended formats can be used interchangeably . This suggests an alternative approach to information portal design . Instead a long top down design cycle , we start from a seed ontology and information structure that we extend incrementally . Community extensions : Whilst many portals support constrained community annotations , such as comments and ratings , the semantic web approach allows more extensive community customization . For example , during work on a portal for wildlife then aggregate multimedia it became clear that many user communities would like specialized navigation of the data ( based on formal species taxonomy or behavior depicted ) , which is infeasible for the centralized portal . Using the decentralized approach it is possible for communities to develop these specialist navigation structures as a set of external RDF annotations on the portal data . The central site can the community provided enrichments . Aggregation and decentralization : One problem with traditional information portals is that they are often dependent on the responsiveness of the central maintainers , so that if funding disappears , so may the data . In the semantic web approach supplying groups host their own data and the portal becomes an aggregating service . Central organization is still needed ( for example , to provide the initial impetus and ensure that appropriate ontologies and controlled vocabularies are adopted ) . However , once the system reaches a critical mass it can more easily be selfsustaining anyone can run an aggregator service and to ensure continued access to the data or a new supplier can add data to the pool without a central organization being a bottleneck . 3 . APPLICATION EXAMPLE : Directory of Environmental organizations As part of an EU funded project , SWAD E [ 9 ] , we are putting these ideas into practice by the development of a directory of UK environmental organizations . The idea is that each organization would provide their organization description as RDF data , using a web based data entry tool , and would then host the data at their own web site ( similar in style to FOAF [ 8] ) . A portal will aggregate the RDF data and provides a faceted browse interface . Annotations to this data can be created by third parties and hosted by the suppliers or by an annotation server . These annotations will permit new classification schemes and relational links to be added to the data . In particular , the ability to add new links is seen as opening up exciting opportunities to capture and visualize the complex relationships between environmental organizations . 3.1 Design Issues The design of this information portal has thrown up a number of challenges with wider implications for semantic web applications : Moderation and access control : The decentralized portal design enables an interesting security model . In the test implementation the aggregator will have a record of which source URL ’s are deemed to be authoritative for a given organization . Each organization can then impose its own access and validation rules governing the update of that data . Some central administration is needed to moderate this “ white list ” of acceptable information sources . A semantic web crawler approach , which supports dynamic addition of new sources , is one possible approach but does not in itself address the problems of discovering “ unsuitable ” material . Navigation : The rich classification of portal items is only useful if the interface complexity is kept under control . Our current experience suggests that a faceted browse approach modeled after the Flamenco project [ 12 ] offers a good balance between expressiveness and simplicity . Provenance : The ability to mix community extensions and annotations with organizations’ own data is a powerful feature of the approach . However , it is important that when a user is navigating the site they are able to clearly separate authoritative data from third party data , and in the latter case find where it came from in order to decide how much to trust it . This raises design issues for efficient recording of provenance , trust model issues ( delegation and so forth ) but also user interface issues of how to make the provenance of items clear . Open ended data model : We wish to support the open ended nature of the RDF data model so that new properties and classes ( whether authoritative or third party ) can be incrementally added . The visualization engine needs to adapt to such changes without requiring new rendering templates to be created at each stage . 4 . STATUS AND CONCLUSIONS An early prototype of the environmental directory is being developed using existing organization databases and building on the Jena framework [ 10 ] and our semantic blogging tools [ 11 ] . Our architecture includes interesting features . We use a templatedriven rendering approach that addresses the structured display of open ended data models by using both the type and property lattices to guide template selection and layout . Many extensions require no template modification . We represent the navigation terms using the SWAD E SKOS thesaurus proposals [ 9 ] and use the Jena rule engines to provide the required transitive closure and other inferences over that representation . The aim of this demonstrator is to show practical applications of all of the core aspects of the semantic web ( decentralization , ontologies , semi structured data ) working together . In contrast , prior projects such as [ 6][7 ] tend to exploit , for example , ontologies while retaining a centralized , top down paradigm .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] The Open Directory project , http://wwwdmozcom/ [ 2 ] The Math Net initiative , http://wwwmath netde/ [ 3 ] FishBase a global information system on fishes , http://wwwfishbaseorg/
[ 4 ] Klyne , G . , and Carroll , JJ Resource Description Framework
( RDF ) : Concepts and Abstract Syntax . W3C Proposed Recommendation 15 December 2003 .
[ 5 ] Dean , M . and Schreiber , G . OWL Web Ontology Language Reference . W3C Proposed Recommendation 15 Dec 2003 . [ 6 ] Maedche , A . , Staab , S . , Stojanoic , N . , Studer , R . , Sure , Y . ,
Semantic portal The SEAL approach , in Creating the Semantic Web . Fensel , D et al ( eds . ) MIT Press , MA , Cambridge , 2001 .
[ 7 ] Kavournarakis , G . , Christophides , V . , Plexousakis , D . , and
Alexaki , S . , Querying Community Web Portals ( 2000 ) http://citeseernjneccom/karvounarakis00queryinghtml
[ 8 ] The Friend of a Friend ( FOAF ) project . http://wwwfoaf projectorg/
[ 9 ] SWAD Europe Project . http://wwww3org/2001/sw/Europe/ [ 10 ] Jena 2 A Semantic Web Framework http://wwwhplhpcom/semweb/jenahtm
[ 11 ] Semantic Blogging for Bibliographies . http://wwwukhplhpcom/people/steve_cayzer/sembloghtm
[ 12 ] Flamenco Project . http://bailandosimsberkeleyedu/flamencohtml
