web page sentinel
Change Action
Rules Engine
Rules
Change Response
Service
Annotations
WebCQ Sentinel
Installation Manager
Page Fetch Web page
Page Fetch
Proxy Cache
Service
Remote
Page Fetch Web page
Static Page
Crawler
Remote
Page Fetch Web page
Dynamic
Page Crawler
HTTP Query
Static Web
Page
HTTP Query
Dynamic Web
Page
WebCQ Metadata
WebCQ Daemon
Web Page
Change Detection
Object Extraction
Sentinel Evaluation
Object Cache Update
Change Summary Generation
Difference Generation
Difference Presentation
Change
Summarization
Change Notification
Notification Condition Evaluation
Notification
Action
Remote Service
Call
Change Notification
Figure 1 . BizCQ Framework Overview
3 . CHANGE DETECTION Change detection is crucial to change monitoring services . The main tasks of change detection include accurately extracting and identifying objects on the target Web page , detecting changes between the page ’s last visited snapshot and the current copy , and generating visual differences and summarizations . The change detection sub system is based on work done previously by [ 7][8 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
470 BizCQ inherits the basic semantics for Web page changes and their associated page sentinel definitions [ 7][8 ] . These sentinels are created to track relevant page changes , such as hyperlinks , images , words , phrases , lists , and tables and are the basic building blocks for identifying application domain specific changes . There are several classes of changes : Structural changes , Informational changes , Presentational changes and Semantic changes . The most important class for this problem domain are semantic changes , which are generally the most difficult to model and capture . 4 . CHANGE RESPONSE FOR INFORMATION EXCHANGES Business information exchanges often involve complex and often manual processes . Because many updates will trigger certain “ status ” changes , the ability to monitor the changes and respond to them becomes inevitably important . The ability to formulate a response based on the type , semantics , and value of the change is an important step towards automating the monitoring and change response process . To help the BizCQ system provide relevance , we have proposed an extension to the WebCQ system to provide annotation capability to the definition of sentinels . This annotated information provides hints to both the human respondent as well as the automated response system . The Web service notification allows the system to dynamically change and grow its capabilities over time . Through this loosely coupled connection , the change measurement , and the change response can all be modified and expanded without impacting the other subsystems . the change monitoring ,
5 . EMERGING STANDARDS A robust system must be able to provide a level of flexibility in order to adjust to emerging technology and standards . We believe that newer mechanisms , which are being used throughout the Internet such as RSS [ 9 ] , can be leveraged to provide another level of service and scalability to the change monitoring problem . This XML format provides a mechanism to publish ‘channels’ of related information and could be used to publish relevant information related to changes on a business partner ’s Web site . Scaling now becomes much simpler , and can be modeled with set mathematics along with change characteristics of the site , as : equests
#=∩∆+
SR
R of
HTTP
R
Where R is the set of RSS Sentinels , ∆R represent the set of RSS feeds ( the changes for that site ) , and S is the set of the standard Sentinels . This assumes all members of S are members of R . Determining the type and semantics of a change are another area where standards can play an important role . Each Web site conforms to its own structure , format , and amount of information published and there is very little correlation between these various systems . One standard that has been proposed but not widely adopted is the gXML ( guideline XML ) [ 5 ] standard . There are several other standards that are being adopted that attempt to help with the problem of inter business information exchange . These include Electronic Business using eXtensible Markup Language ( ebXML ) [ 4 ] and Universal Description , Discovery and Integration ( UDDI ) [ 11 ] . All of these specifications define common ways to provide a standard method to exchange business messages .
6 . RELATED WORK We are working on expanding the service to cover more types of information sources ( semi structured textual sources including PDF , Doc , XML , etc . ) by utilizing more advanced object extraction techniques [ 6 ] and conversion tools . Our future work includes extending the framework for Web site and page collection monitoring ( similar to [ 1] ) . Data mining and machine learning approaches will be incorporated into the framework . We are also exploring and developing tools for better change visualization [ 2][3 ] 7 . CONCLUSION The use of a Web based monitoring system ( such as WebCQ ) to manage and maintain information exchanges between business partners has considerable value . Further development of the system to ensure accurate results and to assist users in formulating appropriate responses to the changes is needed to continue to increase the value of the monitoring system . The BizCQ framework proposed in this poster aims at providing an architecture and a set of techniques for information monitoring on the Web or within a corporate space . The change detection system and associated such as difference generation , presentation , and summarization , as well as the automatic response system will give businesses more leverage when coping with constant information changes . techniques
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] V . Boyapati , K . Chevrier , A . Finkel , N . Glance , T . Pierce , C . Whitmer . ChangeDetector : A site Level monitoring tool for the WWW . In Proceedings of WWW11 Conference , Honolulu , Hawaii , May 2002 .
[ 2 ] E . H . Chi , J . Pitkow , J . Mackinlay , P . Pirolli , R . Gossweiler , and S . K . Card . Visualizing the evolution of web ecologies . In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on human factors in computing systems , Los Angeles , CA , 1998 .
[ 3 ] D . B . Crouch , C . J . Crouch , and G . Andreas . The use of cluster hierarchies in hypertext information retrieval . In Proceedings of Hypertext'89 , Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , November 1989 .
[ 4 ] ebXML . http://wwwebxmlorg/ [ 5 ] Guideline XML ( gXML ) . http://xmlcoverpagesorg/gxmlhtml
[ 6 ] L . Liu , C . Pu , and W . Han . XWRAP : An XML enabled wrapper construction system for Web information sources , In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Data Engineering ( ICDE ) , San Diego CA , February 2000 .
[ 7 ] L . Liu , C . Pu , and W . Tang . WebCQ : detecting and delivering information changes on the web . In Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management ( CIKM ) , Washington DC , November 2000 .
[ 8 ] L . Liu , W . Tang , D . Buttler , and C . Pu . Information monitoring on the web : a scalable solution . World Wide Web Journal , Kluwer Academic Publishers , 5(4 ) , pp 263 304 , 2002 .
[ 9 ] RSS ( RDF Site Summary ) 1.0 standard . http://webresourceorg/rss/10/
[ 10 ] TrackEngine . http://wwwtrackenginecom/ [ 11 ] Universal Description , Discovery , and Integration ( UDDI ) . http://wwwuddiorg
471
