Compositional Knowledge Management for Medical
Services on Semantic Web∗
Yugyung Lee , Chintan
Patel
School of Computing Engineering University of Missouri Kansas City
{leeyu,copdk4}@umkc.edu
Soon Ae Chun
Computing and Decision Sciences
James Geller Computer Science
Seton Hall University
New Jersey Institute of Technology chunsoon@shu.edu geller@njit.edu
ABSTRACT The vision of the Semantic Web is to reduce manual discovery and usage of Web resources ( documents and services ) and to allow software agents to automatically identify these Web resources , integrate them and execute them for achieving the intended goals of the user . Such a composed Web service may be represented as a workflow , called service flow . Current Web service standards are not sufficient for automatic composition . This paper presents different types of compositional knowledge required for Web service discovery and composition . As a proof of concept , we have implemented our framework in a cardiovascular domain which requires advanced service discovery and composition across heterogeneous platforms of multiple organizations . Categories and Subject Descriptors : I24 [ Knowledge Representation Formalisms and Methods ] : Representation Languages General Terms : Management , Design Keywords : Pragmatic Knowledge , Service Composition
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In the past few years , the WWW has changed from being nothing more than an indexed repository of documents towards being a repository of interconnected services and documents . Web users are now routinely checking the Web for services such as currency converters , shortest driving distance with directions generators , etc . Unfortunately , not every required service is available on the Web . Therefore Web research has turned to the time honored approach of its parent discipline and attempts to provide complex services by , in effect , combining simple services in the way of a workflow of services , what we call a service flow . However , the problem of creating a service flow for a given specification is difficult , and it is a part of the vision of the Semantic Web [ 1 ] to let roaming agents perform this difficult task .
The automatic composition of services requires more than de scriptions of service capabilities and input/output parameters . Rather , a service should also indicate in what situations and in what ways it should be used . This is comparable to the manual of an electronic device that provides a service . We call this additional level of description of Web services pragmatic or contextual knowledge . A service should be described by a pragmatic annotation that represents this pragmatic knowledge , in addition to the semantic and ∗(Produces the WWW2004 specific release , location and copyright information ) . For use with www2004 submission.cls V14 Supported by ACM . Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . syntactic knowledge that describes the necessary parameters and functionalities of the service .
Thus , this paper addresses two problems : ( 1 ) How do we define , distinguish between , and justify the need for three different kinds of knowledge to be used in service descriptions : syntactic knowledge , semantic knowledge and pragmatic knowledge . We propose a model to represent Web service compositional knowledge ; ( 2 ) How do heterogeneous medical services interoperate in a medical service flow , composed using these three kinds of knowledge . In this paper , we present an architecture how a service flow can be automatically composed using syntactic , semantic and pragmatic knowledge . We demonstrate how heterogeneous Web services can be made interoperable within our framework . Our motivating examples are drawn from medical services , which should be called , in our case , “ Semantic Medical Services ( SMS ) . ”
2 . SERVICE COMPOSITION MODEL
We will discuss three kinds of compositional knowledge . The first kind of compositional knowledge is based on a syntactic constraint , that is , if the syntactic constraints on compositionality cannot be met , then a service is not composable and cannot be selected . For example , a clinical service may require as a precondition a valid patient ID , and as input the patient demographic information and insurance information . As output it generates an order , and as effect the relevant patient data are collected and transferred to a subsequent department . The selection of this service is constrained by the fact that the agent must be able to supply the input patient ID . If not , the service cannot be used by this agent .
The second kind of compositional knowledge is based on semantic constraints . Web service compositionality often depends on the proper order of two services . For instance , the health care service provided by a hospital for a new patient requires an agent to admit the patient first , and then perform scheduling for this patient . If this order is not respected , the two services ( admission and scheduling ) cannot be composed . This ordering relationship therefore constrains the compositionality of services . The selected service is required to be part of the service flow . Thus , the application of semantic constraints ( rules ) plays a significant role in service compositionality . The semantic composition rules often require extensive domain expert knowledge , such as knowledge of health care policies , drug regulations , health insurance policies , etc . The third type of knowledge necessary for the composition of services , which has been given little attention in the literature , is contextual or pragmatic knowledge , which may also be expressed by sets of rules . Pragmatic knowledge is about the situations in which a service should be used . As such it is not about the service itself , but about the way the service relates to the satisfaction of the goals of the consumer of the service flow . In real life it is often the case that several services possess the same profile and provide the same functionalities . The automated service selection may require pragmatic knowledge . For example , when selecting a lab for a blood test , choose one that is close to the patient ’s work place or home . This pragmatic rule applies when several labs that are in competition with each other provide the same type of services . If the information is needed before a specific date , then a provider that is more expensive may be acceptable . This kind of pragmatic knowledge needs to be modelled in order for the agent to automatically select one service over the other , and compose them in a sensible and highly personalized way .
In summary , syntactic composition knowledge allows an agent to consider all compositions with correct I/O conditions . Semantic composition knowledge constrains the agent to make sensible compositions that conform with the relevant policies and organizational knowledge . Pragmatic composition knowledge allows the agent to make reasonable compositions with respect to the needs and preferences of the initiator of the agent . One may also look at the three kinds of compositional knowledge from an outcomes perspective . Without syntactic knowledge one cannot generate a service flow at all . Without semantic knowledge one cannot generate a service flow that conforms to all existing rules and policies and that produces an objectively reasonable result . Without pragmatic knowledge one cannot guarantee a service flow that produces a useful result for the given circumstances .
3 . SEMANTIC MEDICAL SERVICES
In medical research , there is a need to exchange valuable information between different researchers or research groups . However , it is difficult to build automated procedures for resource sharing ( eg , patient records or images ) , analysis across organizations , which follow different data models and document structures . Most existing health care infrastructures are based on legacy components . Thus , interoperability across such different services from different organizations becomes more difficult . We need to have some common “ data medium ” for information interchange between the applications so that heterogeneous data can be easily converted into formats understandable to respective applications .
As practical approaches to resolving these issues , work flow solutions have been successfully implemented in many health care enterprises1 . Workflow technology offers several advantages , including automation and streamlining of processes and significant cost reductions . Also , ongoing research efforts ( Health Level 7 ( HL7 ) and Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine ( DICOM ) ) provide standards for the exchange , management and integration of medical resources that support clinical patient care and the delivery and evaluation of healthcare services . As these solutions are not at a level sufficient to resolve all relevant issues , additional research is required on how to handle them .
We are in process of developing developing Semantic Medical Services , where we are in the process of integrating various informatics solutions to facilitate collaborative medical research . The SMS architecture ( Figure 1 ) basically contains the following components : SMS Editor allows mapping of service parameters ( input , output , preconditions , effects ) to concepts in predefined medical ontologies . New ontologies could be loaded in the editor . The editor parses the WSDL ( Web service Definition Language ) documents and creates the service grounding descriptions . One interesting feature is plugging of new medical ontologies ( required for mapping service parameters ) . Once stored in the composition rule
Figure 1 : The SMS System Architecture
KB these ontologies are used by the Semantic Matching component ( SEMIO ) . SMS Evaluator performs evaluation of a service , based on the pragmatics defined for selection of a particular service . SMS Composer evaluates services using syntactic and semantic rules . The service composition aspects was bit tricky where we followed a cyclic approach : matching of concepts followed by pragmatic evaluation . SMS Execution Engine actually executes the services . We used some of the existing tools available for this purpose2 , this tool mandates the process specification in specific format .
4 . RELATED WORK
Current Web services support a certain level of interoperability in using and accessing them . The next level of interoperability cannot be achieved by just making services available , but requires providing automatic mechanisms so that the services can be linked in appropriate and meaningful ways . Automatic composition and interoperability of Web services [ 4 ] have been achieved through mapping , service verification , and execution monitoring .
Scientific workflow [ 2 ] is supposed to support interoperation through semantics . It may have the potential to support Web service descriptions for service discovery , invocation , activation and execution of an identified service by an agent or other service [ 4 ] . Unlike these efforts , our approach emphasizes the importance of different kinds of knowledge for heterogeneous semantics for the automatic composition of service flows . There have been efforts in representing business contracts for service evaluation and negotiations [ 3 ] but how to use such pragmatic knowledge for service matching remains still unresolved .
5 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we have laid out an architecture of the knowledge processing that is necessary for composing individual services into service flows . We have classified service description knowledge into syntactic , semantic and pragmatic composition rules that play a major role in discovery , selection and composition of Web services . The description of rules with service concepts allows the system to identify the relevant rules in a certain domain and to identify and select appropriate Web services for composition .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Berners Lee , J . Hendler , and O . Lassila . The Semantic Web . Scientific
American , 284(5 ) , pp . 34 43 , May 2001
[ 2 ] J . Cardoso and A . Sheth . Semantic e workflow composition . Technical report ,
University of Georgia , July 2002 .
[ 3 ] B . N . Grosof , T . C . Poon , SweetDeal : Representing Agent Contracts with
Exceptions using XML Rules , Ontologies , and Process Descriptions , In Proc of WWW 2003 , May 20 24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary .
[ 4 ] S . McIlraith , T . Son , and H . Zeng . Semantic Web services . IEEE Intelligent
Systems , 16(2):46 53 , 2001 .
1http://wwwe workfloworg/case studies/healthcare/
2http://tavernasourceforgenet/
SMS Service Composition Service Evaluator Service Discovery & Semantic Matching SMS Execution EngineSMS Service RequestService CompositionSMS Editing Tools Composition Rule KB SMS Service Design The SMS System S E M I O
