SEMPL : A Semantic Portal
415 Boyd Graduate Studies Research Center
415 Boyd Graduate Studies Research Center
Matt Perry
LSDIS Lab , Computer Science ,
The University of Georgia
Athens , GA , 30602 7404
( 706 ) 542 2911 mperry@csugaedu technology is intended for
ABSTRACT Semantic Web the retrieval , collection , and analysis of meaningful data with significant automation afforded by machine understandability of data [ 1 ] . As one illustration of semantic web technology in action , we present SEMPL , a semantic web portal for the Large Scale Distributed Information Systems lab ( LSDIS ) at the University of Georgia . SEMPL , which is powered by a state of the art commercial system , Semagix Freedom [ 7 ] , uses an ontologydriven approach to provide semantic browsing , linking , and contextual querying of content within the portal . By using the ontology based information integration technique , SEMPL can specify the context of a particular piece of research information , annotate web pages , and provide links to semantically related areas enabling a rich contextual retrieval of information . Categories & Subject Descriptors : H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services – Commercial services , Data sharing , Web based services . General Terms : Management , Performance , Design . Keywords : Semantic Portal , Semantic Web , Ontology .
1 . INTRODUCTION Semantic technologies empower three classes of enterprise and web applications involving heterogeneous content [ 8 ] : ( a ) semantic search and browsing , ( b ) semantic integration , and ( c ) knowledge discovery and semantic analytics . Techniques and capabilities that comprise the state of the art in semantic technology include ontology design and population , automatic classification , semantic metadata extraction and annotation , and semantic query processing and/or inferencing . A Semantic Portal utilizes semantic technology to provide semantic search , browsing , and integration of content . Early portals such as Ontoweb [ 9 ] and MindSwap [ 2 ] have utilized ontology representation standards devised as part of the Semantic Web activity . Although the vision for Semantic Web involves machine understandability of content and a very high degree of automation [ 1 ] , functionality of early efforts have been limited , constrained by limited population of ontology and limited use of computation ( querying or inferencing ) over the more expressive representation theoretically possible with an ontology representation .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
Eric Stiles
LSDIS Lab , Computer Science ,
The University of Georgia
Athens , GA , 30602 7404
( 706 ) 542 2911 stiles@csugaedu
In this student authored poster based on a Semantic Web course project , we discuss a Semantic Portal that better demonstrates the power of semantics in information search , browsing , integration , and presentation . We focus on complex , ontological relationships rather than simple , direct relationships and utilize the commercial system Semagix Freedom to expand the scale and reach of our implementation . Freedom allows for powerful , automated ontology population , and its Semantic Enhancement Engine ( SEE ) [ 3 ] allows us to place any document in the context of our domain .
2 . PORTAL FEATURES Essentially , we leverage semantics in our portal for enhanced browsing , searching , and linking of relevant content . We provide ontology based browsing and searching of information within the portal and implement novel features such as links to semantically related entities and a semantically enhanced web search
2.1 Ontology based Browsing and Searching SEMPL relies on a domain specific ontology covering academia based computer science research for browsing and searching content within the portal . Since the ontology schema and its inherent taxonomy clearly organize research papers , people , presentations , etc . , it can provide a coherent presentation and method of access to the heterogeneous content of heterogeneous format within the portal . For a visual interface with the ontology schema , SEMPL uses TouchGraph [ 10 ] . The upper third of the portal web page is used to display a subset of the ontology schema . Clicking a node in the schema can have two different actions depending on the user mode ( browse or search ) . In semantic browsing mode , all instances of the selected class are listed in the bottom third of the page . A click on one of the listed instances will open its entity view page . In semantic search mode the same click will open a search template in the bottom third of the page allowing the user to search based on class specific attributes .
2.2 Links to Semantically Related Entities To truly have a semantic application , one must utilize the ( named ) relationships between entities , as these relationships provide the most insight . We wanted to capture the power of these relationships to provide otherwise unknown information about a particular entity , mainly which other entities are related to this entity in the context of our domain . Given the large scale capabilities of Freedom , especially its ability to populate an ontology with large amounts of instance data or knowledge , it was necessary to keep the implementation simple and efficient . We chose not to add the complexities of rule sets and logics to
428 discover knowledge , as is discussed in SEAL [ 4 ] . Instead , we approached the problem from a graph traversal perspective . Since an instance of a named relationship is essentially a path connecting two vertices , a complex semantic relationship can be thought of as a path of length more than one which connects two distinct vertices ( entities ) . The ontology schema and instance data each have a clearly defined role . We use the schema to define a complex semantic relationship . The administrator can configure any number of complex relationships for a given entity class by selecting the paths at the schema level . At the entity instance level , we use instances of these paths to provide links to semantically related entities . Our design provides the ability to take a given entity and efficiently traverse several nodes to find semantically related entity instances . Also , a simple ranking mechanism based on the number of distinct relationship instances connecting two entities is used . This is fundamentally different from what has been done with earlier semantic portal implementations as we go beyond simple , direct relationships and utilize the real power of our ontology in a general and efficient way .
2.3 Semantically Enhanced Web Search SEMPL ’s web search component allows searching ( through a MetaCrawler implemented [ 5 ] , keyword based web search ) and enhancement ( through Freedom ’s SEE ) of external content with respect to the given knowledgebase . In the search result pages , recognized entity instances are highlighted and embedded with their corresponding entity view pages . Figure 1 links demonstrates an enhanced web search result . After clicking the term “ RDF , ” an entity view page presents all relevant portal content for the entity “ RDF . ” to
Figure 1 . Semantic Enhancement
3 . SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE The modularity of SEMPL ’s architecture is designed to easily integrate various semantic technologies while allowing for scalable growth . The SEMPL code is developed in three distinct layers : a backend data store , the SEMPL middle layer , and the SEMPL web interface . All communication between the web interface and the data store APIs is through SEMPL ’s middle layer API . Even though this project is guided by research , the data store is the commercial semantic software Semagix Freedom . Freedom is designed as a backend tool to be accessed with an application specific GUI interface . Freedom provides automated ontology population through knowledge extractors and allows for semantic enhancement of documents .
4 . CONCLUSIONS SEMPL addresses three key issues for semantic portals : large scale ontology population , efficient utilization of complex semantic relationships , and enhancement and contextualization of non annotated web documents . Freedom ’s automated knowledge extractors do not rely on current knowledge representation languages ( ie , RDF [ 6] ) , making large scale ontology population feasible . SEMPL utilizes complex semantic relationships to link relevant entity instances . Finally , SEMPL places any document in the context of its given knowledgebase through its web search component . Our prototype is being hardened for roll out of the next generation of the LSDIS lab web site .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We acknowledge team members , Chris Bennett , Deepti Chafekar , and Cary Pennington , in the original project , and the guidance of Professor Amit Sheth ( CSCI 8351 : Semantic Web ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Berners Lee , T . , Hendler , J . , and Lassila , O . “ The Semantic
Web ” . Scientific American , May 2001
[ 2 ] Golbeck , J . , Grove , M . , Parsia , B . , Kalyanpur , A . , Hendler ,
J . New Tools for the Semantic Web . in Proceedings of EKAW ’02 ( Siguenza Spain , Oct 2002 ) .
[ 3 ] Hammond , B . , Sheth , A . , Kochut , K . Semantic Enhancement Engine : A Modular Document Enhancement Platform for Semantic Applications over Heterogeneous Content . in Real World Semantic Web , Kashyap , V . , and Shklar , L . , ( eds. ) , IOS Press , 12/2002 .
[ 4 ] Maedche , A . , Staab , S . , Stojanovic , N . , Studer , R . , and
Sure , Y . SEAL – A Framework for Developing SEmantic Web PortALs . LNCS Springer , vol . 2097 , 2001 .
[ 5 ] Metacrawler . http://wwwmetacrawlercom [ 6 ] Resource Description Framework ( RDF ) Model and Syntax
Specification . http://wwww3org/TR/1999/REC rdfsyntax 19990222/
[ 7 ] Semagix , inc . http://wwwsemagixcom [ 8 ] Sheth , A . , and Ramakrishnan , C . Semantic ( Web )
Technology in Action : Ontology Driven Information Systems for Search , Integration and Analysis . IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin , Special issue on Making the Semantic Web Real , ( 12/2003 ) .
[ 9 ] Spyns , P . , Oberle , D . , Volz , R . , Zheng , J . , Jarrar , M . , Sure , Y . , Studer , R . , Meersman , R . OntoWeb – a Semantic Web Community Portal . in Proceedings of PAKM ‘02 ( Vienna Austria , Dec 2002 ) .
[ 10 ] TouchGraph . http://wwwtouchgraphcom
429
