OREL : An Ontology based Rights Expression Language
Yuzhong Qu
Dept . CompSci and Eng .
Southeast University Nanjing , China , 210096 yzqu@seueducn
Xiang Zhang
Dept . CompSci and Eng .
Southeast University Nanjing , China , 210096
Huiying Li
Dept . CompSci and Eng .
Southeast University . Nanjing , China , 210096 spc99@seueducn huiyingli@seueducn
ABSTRACT This paper proposes an Ontology based Rights Expression Language , called OREL . Based on OWL Web Ontology Language , OREL allows not only users but also machines to handle digital rights at semantics level . The ontology based rights model of OREL is also presented . The usage of OREL and its advantages against existing RELs are discussed .
Categories and Subject Descriptors K41 [ Public Policy Issues ] : Intellectual property rights ; I24 [ Knowledge Representation Formalisms and Methods ] : Representation languages .
General Terms Languages , Security , Standardization .
Keywords Rights Expression Language , XrML , OWL , OREL .
1 . INTRODUCTION Masses of digital contents are delivered nowadays via web . The problem of how to protect intellectual property therefore becomes urgent . DRM ( Digital Rights Management)[1 ] systems are designed to protect the interest of content creators and disable illegal distribution of digital contents . A right specifies an action ( or activity ) or a class of actions that a principal is permitted to perform on or using the associated resource . The DRM system is not only doing the job of access control but also involving usage control , finance exchange , digital content delivery security and so on . One of the key technologies for the DRM system is REL ( Rights Expression Language ) . Creators or dealers of digital contents use REL to create a license that grants the rights to end users . Most of the popular RELs in current use are based on XML , such as MPEG REL[2 ] , XrML [ 3 ] . The top level construct in XrML 2.0 is a “ License ” , which is a container of “ Grant ” . XrML 2.0 data model comprises four elements and their relationships shown as figure 1 . The four elements respectively represent the principal to whom the grant is issued , the right that the grant specifies , the resource that is the direct object of the “ right ” verb ( or act ) and the condition that must be met for the right to be exercised . “ Grant ” conveys to a particular principal the sanction to exercise an identified right against an identified resource , possibly subject to first fulfilling some conditions .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 .
The XML based RELs support the interoperability at the syntax level benefiting from XML . But the meaning of the entities and the relationship between these entities are informal , and the application developers are assumed to take the responsibility to deal with the semantics of “ Licenses ” . In other words , these RELs are hard to be automatically handled by machines at the semantic level . It also leads to the problem of interoperability at semantic level when the data of licenses are exchanged . Considering two applications using different RELs , if they both issue a license granting “ Play ” to end users , it ’s difficult to infer automatically that the two “ Play ” are the same or tell what the difference is .
Principal
Resource
( Work , Service , etc . )
Right
Condition
Figure1 : XrML data model
Further , existing RELs will be infeasible in the future of the WebSemantic Web because they are hard to deal with automatic reasoning or semantic query . Web ontology languages play a crucial role to the emerging Semantic Web , as they allow the explicit representation of term vocabularies and the relationships between entities in these vocabularies . OWL ( Web Ontology Language ) is designed by the W3C as a language for defining and instantiating web ontologies . Based on Description Logic , OWL provides more expressive power than RDF Schema . All of these motivate us to design an Ontology based Rights Expression Language ( OREL ) , a new REL based on OWL . the language . We use
2 . ONTOLOGY BASED RIGHTS MODEL The ontology based rights model , shown as figure 2 , is the heart of the OREL terms “ Act ” , “ Agent ” , “ Resource ” , “ Time ” and “ Place ” from MPEG RDD ( Rights Data Dictionary)[4 ] as well as their hierarchy and relationships to build our ontology . RDD is a dictionary of key terms that aims to unambiguously describe rights of all users , including intellectual property rights . As figure 2 shown , there are some similarities between our model and XrML data model in that “ Act ” corresponds to “ Right ” , “ Agent ” to “ Principal ” , and “ Grant ” and “ Condition ” to the corresponding elements in XrML . But there exists some essential differences . First , our model is much clearer than XrML model in describing the context of “ Act ” by separating “ Time ” and “ Place ” from “ Condition ” . Second , our model is more powerful especially
324 when describing multi users have multi rights under multiconditions . Third , the very difference is that our model is based on the ontology rather than just XML format .
3 . USAGE OF OREL OREL is defined as an OWL ontology consisting a set of related classes and properties . OREL users can import this ontology and write their own license by using instantiation or inheritance to fulfill their application specific requirements . When a user of OREL writes a license , the user should obey not only XML but also OWL specification . It is obvious that more complexity will be added . However , we will illustrate that it is worth trying . The user will benefit from the power of Semantic Web in virtue of description logic . We present three use cases with increasing complexity step by step at our website and give the corresponding licenses to illustrate the usage of OREL .
Time
Place
Agent hasTime hasPlace hasAgent
1+
Act permittedAction
Grant precondition
Condition hasResource
1+
Resource rdfs:subClassOf rdfs:subClassOf
TimesCondition
PaymentCondition
Figure2 : OREL Ontology Model
4 . ADVANTAGES OF OREL OREL users will find it easy to define their own ontology by inheritance of class using OWL . User can use the ontology to make specific expression by adding new properties or changing existing property value . For example , a dealer can define its own specific environment as a subclass of “ Place ” to limit end users using a resource within this specific environment , eg specific hardware , software or even software with specific version . OREL inherits the expressiveness and flexibility of OWL . Seemingly irrelevant terms or entities may describe the same thing or correlative things . When digital rights are expressed by OREL , there is an additional ability to express the relationship between those related entities . This will help when applications interoperate with each other with digital rights exchanged . Semantic query is another important advantage of OREL . When rights data becomes huge from various sources , OREL will be efficient in virtue of many mature semantic query language such as RDQL or RQL and so on . Reasoning within OREL is based on the one within description logic [ 5 ] , while existing RELs have no ability of reasoning . The most obvious advantage brought by reasoning is preventing some redundant information from occurring in the license and gives more convenience to language users . Besides this , reasoning in OREL may infer some implicit but useful information . For example , a dealer only grants permission to faculties of a department and their relatives to access a resource . When an unknown user named “ Alice ” request the resource , reasoning system of OREL can help us infer that whether she/he is a faculty or faculty relative of the department by reasoning with the Personal Information of “ Alice ” . Of course , the reasoning needs the support of Semantic Web environment . Reasoning ability of OREL makes it possible to partly resolve the problem of “ Fair Use ” [ 6] a big problem challenging DRM . XML Syntax cannot provide a flexible mechanism to explicitly describe the implicit domain that who has right to fair use the resources and how to fair use them . Ontology language such as OWL do not need to express who or how explicitly . We may create a class , and restrict each of its instances to a certain property value . So when semantics is added to licenses , the problem of making such expression sometimes gets simpler . We can express that some kind of “ Agent ” are fair users , and they can do some kind of “ Act ” for some kind of “ Purpose ” ( “ Purpose ” may be added to core OREL ontology ) . Then in virtue of Semantic Web , OREL reasoning engine will search and query the Personal Information System and maybe infer that everything is suitable or not . Now OREL is just a starting attempt and can only resolve very limited fair use problem . But we do believe that with a collaboration of multisystems such as Semantic Web , knowledge repository , Tracking System and so on , it is possible to resolve fair use to some acceptable extent . 5 . CONCLUSION We represent OREL , a new Rights Expression Language based on ontology . OREL is powered by the Semantic Web technologies . Its expressiveness and flexibility make it worth trying . Moreover , the ability to support semantic query and reasoning with digital rights makes it worth expecting . With the advance of Semantic Web , OREL would reveal its great advantages . We have released the OREL version 05 A Java based OREL engine and an OREL powered player are achieved at prototype stage . More information about OREL was posted on http://xobjectsseueducn/resource/drm/orel/homehtm
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This paper is jointly supported by NSFC with project no . 60173036 , JSNSF with project no . BK2003001 and China HiTech Program with project no2002AA144070
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Renato
Iannella . Digital Rights Management
( DRM ) Architectures . D Lib Magazine ( June 2001 ) , Volume 7 Number 6 .
[ 2 ] MPEG 21 . Part 5 : Rights Expression Language ( REL ) . http://mpegtelecomitalialabcom/standards/mpeg 21/mpeg21htm
[ 3 ] ContentGuard , eXtensible rights Markup Language ( XrML )
2.0 Specification . http://wwwxrmlorg/
[ 4 ] Information technology – Multimedia framework ( MPEG21) Part6 : Rights Data Dictionary , ISO/IEC FDIS 21000 6 , 2003 07 15 .
[ 5 ] Franz Baader , Diego Calvanese , Deborah McGuinness , Daniele Nardi , Peter Patel Schneider , eds . The Description Logic Handbook : Theory , Implementation and Applications . Cambridge University Press , March 2003 .
[ 6 ] John S . Erickson . Fair Use , DRM , and trusted computing . Communications of ACM ( April 2003 ) , Volume 46 Issue 4 , 34 39 .
325
