XML Data Mediator
Integrated solution for XML Roundtrip from XML to Relational
Nianjun Zhou
IBM
150 Kettletown Road Southbury , CT 06488
+1 203 486 7435
George Mihaila
IBM
TJ Watson Research Center , PO 218
Yorktown Heights , NY 10598
+1 914 784 7803
Dikran Meliksetian
IBM
150 Kettletown Road Southbury , CT 06488
+1 203 486 5590 jzhou@usibmcom mihaila@usibmcom meliksd1@usibmcom the
XDM enables
ABSTRACT This paper presents a system for efficient data transformations between XML and relational databases , called XML Data Mediator ( XDM ) . transformation by externalizing the specification of the mapping in a script and using an efficient run time engine that automates the conversion task . The runtime engine is independent from the mapping script . A parser converts a mapping script into an internal conversion object . For the mapping from relational to XML , we use a tagging tree as a conversion object inside the runtime engine , and use an SQL outer join scheme to combine multiple SQL queries in order to reduce the number of backend relational database accesses . For the mapping from XML to relational , the conversion object is a shredding tree , and we use an innovative algorithm to process the XML as a stream in order to achieve linear complexity with respect to the size of the XML document .
Categories and Subject Descriptors E.2 [ Data Storage Representation ]
General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Design
Keywords XML , RDBMS , relational database , shredding , XML , XSL
1 . INTRODUCTION The XML Data Mediator ( XDM ) is a tool for bi directional data conversion between XML and structured data formats of relational databases or LDAP . We abstract the concepts of relational database and LDAP into a concept called data storage . Mapping is defined at the data storage and XML schema ( or structure ) level . XDM supports the transformation between XML to multiple data storages ( including databases and LDAP repositories ) . XDM externalizes the specification of the mapping , and it replaces the programming effort by the simpler effort of writing a script that describes the relationships between the XML constructs and the corresponding relational constructs . XDM can be used as
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . a stand alone utility , or it can be integrated as a library in other applications , such as middleware . The XDM runtime engine is designed to accept an input script as a template for performing transformations . The runtime engine parses the script only once and creates efficient run time objects that are cached and reused as needed . Based on the script and the direction of the transformation ( from data storage to XML or from XML to data storage ) , XDM creates the appropriate tree structures for performing the transformations . The tree structures define both the data storage procedures to be executed as well as the XML structure information , which is either an XML hierarchy to be created upon retrieval or to be traversed for storage . Included in the current implementation are two types of scripts : Document Type Definition with Source Annotation ( DTDSA ) [ 1 ] and XML Relational Transformation ( XRT ) . The DTDSA script is a DTD marked with mappings between elements and rows/columns in the database . The same DTDSA script can be used for both directions of the transformation . The XRT script is a script loosely based on XSL which uses an SQL query based approach to obtain the elements . Since a given script is likely to be used for multiple transformations within the lifetime of an application , the run time engine was designed with a number of caching mechanisms . The run time engine parses the script only once and creates efficient run time objects that are cached and reused as needed . Currently , XDM is implemented in Java , and we are using JDBC to access relational databases and JNDI to access LDAP repositories . Therefore , the implementation is vendor neutral , and can support all the relational databases and LDAP repositories .
2 . FROM RELATIONAL TO XML Tagging trees are generated by a script parser and used to facilitate transforming data from relational to XML . Tagging trees represent both the XML hierarchical structure information as well as the query information to retrieve the data from database and to place in the hierarchical structure . A runtime environment then processes the tagging tree by a depth first traversal . The runtime environment is able to be configured to output a hierarchical XML document , or pipelined to control , for example , SAX processing . There are multiple node types has been defined for a tagging tree to catch the features of the transformation from relational data to
424
XML . Based on the behavior at runtime , the nodes can be categorized as non walk able node and walk able node . The nonwalk able nodes include attribute data nodes , text data nodes and binding nodes . A binding node is a special type of node , which specifies the relationship between a data node and an execution node . Walk able nodes include element nodes and execution nodes . Element nodes contain an element name and have as children one data node , zero or more attribute nodes and zero or more element nodes . An execution node contains a parameterized SQL command . The output of the execution of the contained parameterized SQL command is a dataset . The runtime execution itself has two steps : 1 ) Information from the database is retrieved using the SQL queries in the execution nodes , thereby creating an array of intermediate data sets ; and 2 ) The data from the intermediate data sets is transformed into the required final output XML format using format specified by the tagging tree . One of the factors affecting the performance of the operations is the number of backend database accesses . The problem becomes worse if the backend database resides on a remote machine . In order to reduce the number of database accesses , we developed a scheme to combine multiple queries together using the SQL outerunion construct . Our outer union operation in query combination differs from the conventional SQL union operation in some respects . The conventional SQL union operation is only defined for relations having the same number and types of columns . Each query optimization combines a set of queries where each query corresponds to an execution node in the query tree . The first execution node that contains queries to be merged into an outerunion query will be replaced with an outer union execution node , which contains the generated outer union query , and with an associated virtual execution node . Virtual execution nodes replace the other execution nodes on the selected path of nodes specifying the merged queries . The output columns of each virtual node are connected to the corresponding columns of the output of the outer union execution node . 3 . FROM XML TO RELATIONAL In the opposite shredding or storage process , XDM creates a shredding tree , which defines the appropriate XPath expressions used to select the proper elements from the XML input , and the data storage procedures , in order to place them in the defined data storage locations . The data storage operation could be an SQL update statement ( INSERT , UPDATE , or DELETE ) or complex data manipulation . A shredding tree has two types of nodes : cursor nodes and data nodes . All of the nodes of the shredding tree are labeled with hierarchical locators . A hierarchical locator is a path expression obtained by concatenating the labels of the group nodes from the root to a node in a schema tree . Each shredding tree has a local lookup table , which maps a node locator to its corresponding shredding node . A node locator can either correspond to a cursor node or data node , but not both . At run time , we maintain multiple virtual tables in memory to hold the data from XML document . The runtime engine will
) c e s ( e m i t g n i d d e r h S
28 26 24 22 20 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0
K 5 . 0
K 4 5 2
M 1
K 9 0 5
K 4 6 7
M 2
M 3
M 5 . 2
M 4
M 5
XML document size
M 8
Figure 1 . Shredding Time maintain certain counters for each virtual table , recording the number of columns for which values are still expected . As soon as all the counters become zero , all the columns of the current record of virtual record are filled in and ready for shredding . This shredding method is a linear time algorithm for shredding of XML into relations . The main advantage of our algorithm is the fact it processes the input XML document in a streaming fashion ( by using a SAX parser ) and therefore does not need to materialize the entire XML tree in main memory . As a direct implication , it scales nicely to arbitrarily large document as shown in Figure 1 .
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK We have presented an integrated , vendor independent solution of mapping between XML and relational databases and LDAP . The XDM system can be used in a variety of applications , including Web Content Management systems , Knowledge Management systems , and Business to Business transactions . Wherever there is the need to extract selected XML elements and to store them in a data sink , or to compose an XML object from various data sources , XDM can improve the efficiency and the scalability of any application .
Some open to shred recursive XML documents into relational database . These are practical problems encountered in catalog business and life science areas . Besides , how to use the statistical data usage of a database to provide optimization guideline for query combination is still an open question . involve how issues
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Many thanks to Sriram Padmanabhan , Colleen Viehrig , Arun Pradeep , Jessica Wu Ramirez for their contributions to XDM development .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ming Ling Lo , Shyh Kwei Chen , Sriram Padmanabhan , JenYao Chung : XAS : A System for Accessing Componentized , Virtual XML Documents . ICSE 2001 : 493 502
425
