Small World Peer Networks in Distributed Web Search
Ruj Akavipat †
Le Shin Wu† rakavipa@csindianaedu lewu@csindianaedu
Filippo Menczer †‡ fil@indiana.edu
†Department of Computer Science and ‡School of Informatics
Indiana University
Bloomington , IN 47405
ABSTRACT In ongoing research , a collaborative peer network application is being proposed to address the scalability limitations of centralized search engines . Here we introduce a local adaptive routing algorithm used to dynamically change the topology of the peer network based on a simple learning scheme driven by query response interactions among neighbors . We test the algorithm via simulations with 70 model users based on actual Web crawls . We find that the network topology rapidly converges from a random network to a small world network , with emerging clusters that match the user communities with shared interests . Categories and Subject Descriptors : C24 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : Distributed Systems ; H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms : Algorithms , Measurement Keywords : Peer collaborative search , topical crawlers , small world
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Peer network are increasingly seen as a candidate framework for distributed Web search applications . YouSearch [ 1 ] maintains a centralized search registry for query routing , making it difficult to adapt the search process to the heterogeneous and dynamic contexts of the peer users . A more distributed approach is to completely decentralize search , as in Gnutella . Queries are sent and forwarded blindly by each peer . But since the peer network topology is uncorrelated with the interests of the peer users , peers are flooded by requests and cannot effectively manage the ensuing traffic . Adaptive , content based routing has been proposed to overcome this difficulty in the file sharing setting . NeuroGrid [ 2 ] employs a learning mechanism to adjust metadata describing the contents of nodes . A similar idea has been proposed to distribute and personalize Web search using a query based model and collaborative filtering [ 4 ] . Search however is disjoint from crawling , making it necessary to rely on centralized search engines for content .
To address the scalability limitations of centralized search engines , both Web crawling and searching must be distributed . This allows for symbiotic interactions whereby a peer can vertically adapt to its users’ search interests [ 3 ] , while horizontally peers can achieve better coverage by learning to collaboratively route and respond to queries . In this context , here we present preliminary results to test the hypothesis that even the simplest collaboration method should lead to a topology in which clusters emerge to match communities of peers with shared interests . We predict that the ideal topology for such a network is a small world [ 6 ] , allowing for any two
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2004 , May 17–22 , 2004 , New York , New York , USA . ACM 1 58113 912 8/04/0005 . peers to reach each other via a short path ( small diameter ) while maximizing the efficiency of communication within clustered peer communities .
2 . PEER COLLABORATION MODEL
Each peer has a unique local search database where it can retrieve local hits . A peer can send queries to other peers and respond to queries from other peers with messages containing search results , scores , and a peer location . A profile can be requested from other known peers . A peer may respond to such a request with a list of most frequent keywords in its search database .
For query forwarding , we give each peer a fixed number of slots for neighbors , Nn , that a peer can forward a query to , but a peer can know more than Nn other peers . The actual set of Nn neighbors , ie those to whom queries are sent , is selected dynamically for each query at time t among the Nk(t ) known peers . The queried neighbors are chosen among the known peers as those with highest similarity between query and peer profile . The standard TTL mechanism is used to limit forwarding and prevent loops .
When a response is received , the sender is entered into the known peer list . If the peer was not known , a profile is requested . Finally , the scores of hits received are associated with the query keywords and entered into the peer profile .
Many other details of the proposed peer collaborative framework for distributed Web search are omitted for brevity .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
We created a simulator that allows us to model synthetic users and run their queries over real indexes obtained from actual distributed Web crawls . Our simulator takes a snapshot of the network for every time step . In a time step of the simulator , all of the peers process all of their buffered incoming messages and send all of their buffered outgoing messages . This may include the generation of a local query as well as forwarding and responding to the queries received by other peers .
There are N = 70 peers in our simulation . To study whether the adaptive routing algorithm can generate network topologies that capture the interests shared by user communities , we model synthetic users belonging to 7 different groups of 10 users each . Each group is associated with a general topic . Each user has its own peer search engine , but for the peers in a given group the search engines are built by topical crawlers focusing on the same topic .
The group topics are chosen from the Open Directory ( ODP , dmoz.org ) to simulate the group structure , according to a simple methodology developed to evaluate topical crawlers [ 5 ] . For each group , we extract a set of 100–150 URLs from the ODP subtree rooted at the category node corresponding to the group ’s topic . These URLs are used to seed the crawlers of the peers in the group .
Figure 1 : Small world statistics of the peer network .
Each peer has 10 local 2 word queries related to its group topic , generated from the descriptions of the group ’s seed URLs . The peer uses one of its queries and its group ’s seed URLs to crawl 10,000 pages ( for a total of 700,000 pages ) . The topical crawlers employ a best N first crawling algorithm [ 3 , 5 ] . The nutch.org indexer is used to build each peer ’s search engine from its crawled pages .
Each peer can forward queries to Nn = 5 neighbors . At the beginning of each experiment , the peer network is initialized as a random Erdos Renyi graph , ie , each peer is assigned 5 random neighbors drawn from a uniform distribution , irrespective of groups . A query can be forwarded at most TTL=3 times from one peer . We ran the simulator for about 300 time steps , corresponding to 30 queries issued per peer . Since there are only 10 distinct queries per peer , each query is submitted 3 times in the course of a simulation .
4 . ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
Let us define two network statistics . The cluster coefficient for a node is the fraction of a node ’s neighbors that are also neighbors of each other . This is computed in the directed graph based on each peer ’s Nn neighbors , with a total of Nn(Nn − 1 ) = 20 possible directed links between neighbors . The overall cluster coefficient C is computed by averaging across all peer nodes . The diameter is defined as the average shortest path length ‘p across all pairs p of nodes . We compute the average shortest path as p , a measure that is robust with respect to the fact that the network is not necessarily strongly connected , and therefore some pairs do not have a directed path ( ‘p = ∞ ) . We ran three experiments , corresponding to simulation runs with different seeds of the random number generator . C and D were measured at each time step and averaged across simulation runs .
D = N ( N − 1)/P p ‘−1
Figure 1 shows that the diameter remains roughly equal to the initial random graph diameter ( actually there is a slight decrease ) , while the cluster coefficient increases rapidly and significantly , stabilizing around a value 100–130 % larger than that of the initial random graph . These conditions define the emergence of a small world topology in the peer network [ 6 ] . This is a very interesting finding , indicating that the peer interactions cause the peers to route queries in such a way that communities of users with similar interests cluster together to find quality results quickly , while it is still possible to reach any peer in a small number of steps .
To illustrate the small world phenomenon and the fact that the emerging clusters correspond to the modeled communities , Figure 2 shows the neighborhood topology for all peers and for one of the groups ( others display analogous topology ) in one of the runs .
Figure 2 : Peer network connectivity for all groups ( top ) and for one of the groups ( bottom ) . Left : initial neighbor links . Right : Final neighbor links .
Peers are placed along a circle , adjacent within each group ; the 10 nodes in the selected group are placed around the 7–8 o’clock position . The total number of links is the same in left and right graphs . The decreasing density of long ( cross group ) links indicates that the peers start by routing queries randomly but eventually learn to route queries preferentially to neighbors within groups , so that the network evolves to match the communities with shared interests .
5 . CONCLUSION
The experiment results support our hypothesis about the emergence of small world peer networks in collaborative , distributed Web search . The results also support the idea that adaptive routing can work with real Web data . We are currently experimenting with our distributed Web search framework to verify that the critical network structure emerging from local peer interactions leads to improved result quality compared to centralized search .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Shannon Bradshaw , Gautam Pant and Padmini Srinivasan for helpful discussions . We are grateful to the Nutch Organization for its open source search engine code , to Gautam Pant for the topical crawler libraries , and to the ODP for the data used to model our simulated users . This work was supported in part by NSF Career Grant IIS 0348940 . The AVIDD cluster used in the experiments was funded in part by NSF Grant CDA 9601632 .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Bawa et al . Make it fresh , make it quick — searching a network of personal webservers . Proc . 12th WWW , 2003 .
[ 2 ] S . Joseph . Neurogrid : Semantically routing queries in Peer to Peer networks . Proc . Intl . Work . P2P Computing , 2002 .
[ 3 ] G . Pant , S . Bradshaw , and F . Menczer . Search engine crawler symbiosis . Proc . 7th ECDL , 2003 .
[ 4 ] J . Pujol , R . Sang¨uesa , and J . Berm´udez . Porqpine : A distributed and collaborative search engine . Proc . 12th WWW , 2003 .
[ 5 ] P . Srinivasan , G . Pant , and F . Menczer . A general evaluation framework for topical crawlers . Information Retrieval , Forthcoming .
[ 6 ] D . Watts and S . Strogatz . Collective dynamics of ” small world ” networks . Nature , 393:440–442 , 1998 .
0510152025−20020406080100120140queries per peeraverage change ( %)cluster coefficientdiameterPajekPajekPajekPajek
