Anatomy of the Long Tail :
Ordinary People with Extraordinary Tastes
Sharad Goel‡ , Andrei Broder† , Evgeniy Gabrilovich† , Bo Pang†
‡ Yahoo! Research , 111 West 40th Street , New York , NY 10018 , USA
† Yahoo! Research , 4301 Great America Parkway , Santa Clara , CA 95054 , USA
{goel , broder , gabr , bopang}@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT The success of “ infinite inventory ” retailers such as Amazon.com and Netflix has been ascribed to a “ long tail ” phenomenon . To wit , while the majority of their inventory is not in high demand , in aggregate these “ worst sellers , ” unavailable at limited inventory competitors , generate a significant fraction of total revenue . The long tail phenomenon , however , is in principle consistent with two fundamentally different theories . The first , and more popular hypothesis , is that a majority of consumers consistently follow the crowds and only a minority have any interest in niche content ; the second hypothesis is that everyone is a bit eccentric , consuming both popular and specialty products . Based on examining extensive data on user preferences for movies , music , Web search , and Web browsing , we find overwhelming support for the latter theory . However , the observed eccentricity is much less than what is predicted by a fully random model whereby every consumer makes his product choices independently and proportional to product popularity ; so consumers do indeed exhibit at least some a priori propensity toward either the popular or the exotic .
Our findings thus suggest an additional factor in the success of infinite inventory retailers , namely , that tail availability may boost head sales by offering consumers the convenience of “ one stop shopping ” for both their mainstream and niche interests . This hypothesis is further supported by our theoretical analysis that presents a simple model in which shared inventory stores , such as Amazon Marketplace , gain a clear advantage by satisfying tail demand , helping to explain the emergence and increasing popularity of such retail arrangements . Hence , we believe that the return oninvestment ( ROI ) of niche products goes beyond direct revenue , extending to second order gains associated with increased consumer satisfaction and repeat patronage . More generally , our findings call into question the conventional wisdom that specialty products only appeal to a minority of consumers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences
General Terms Economics , Measurement
Keywords Long tail , infinite inventory
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The explosion of electronic commerce has opened the door to so called “ infinite inventory ” retailers , such as Amazon.com , Netflix , and the iTunes Music Store , which offer an order of magnitude more items than their brick and mortar counterparts [ 2 ] . The resulting long tail markets [ 1 , 2 ] have been found to exhibit two near universal properties : ( 1 ) the vast majority of products are “ misses , ” appealing to only a relatively small group of people ; and ( 2 ) these “ worst sellers ” in aggregate account for a sizable fraction of total consumption . For example , 30 % of Amazon.com ’s sales and 25 % of Netflix ’s sales are for items not available in the largest offline retail stores [ 2 ] . Based on these empirical observations , the success of online retailers has been largely attributed to the lucrative , and previously untapped , “ tail markets . ”
The long tail phenomenon , however , is in principle consistent with two fundamentally different hypotheses . The first , and generally accepted theory , is that a majority of consumers prefer popular offerings while only a minority seek niche content ; the second hypothesis is that everyone is a bit eccentric , consuming both popular and specialty products . These two theories , importantly , predict substantively different tradeoffs between inventory size and user satisfaction . In the former case , a small inventory of popular items would satisfy most people nearly all of the time , while in the latter , such an inventory would frustrate most people at least some of the time . Thus , differentiating between the two is key to developing sound business strategies .
To distinguish between these possible alternatives , we examine extensive data on user preferences for movies , music , Web search , and Web browsing . In all of these domains , we find overwhelming evidence that nearly everyone is at least a bit eccentric . Our findings suggest an additional factor for the success of infinite inventory retailers : tail availability may boost head sales by offering consumers the convenience of “ one stop shopping ” for both their mainstream and niche interests . Hence , even small increases in direct revenue from niche products may be associated with much larger secondorder gains due to increased overall consumer satisfaction and resulting repeat patronage . More generally , our work highlights the diversity of individual tastes , and calls into question the conventional view that niche products appeal only to a minority of consumers .
The remainder of our paper is organized as follows .
In Section 2 we review related work . Section 3 describes our data and presents the main empirical findings . We propose and analyze a theoretical model of consumer behavior in Section 4 , and discuss how small differences in inventories lead to “ winner take all ” effects . We conclude in Section 5 by summarizing and discussing our results .
2 . RELATED WORK
The “ long tail ” view was coined and popularized by Chris Anderson [ 1 , 2 ] to describe consumers’ demand for niche products in an age of infinite inventory retailers . In particular , Anderson finds that a substantial fraction of revenue is generated from specialty items not available in traditional brick and mortar stores , and argues that the “ future of business is selling less of more ” [ 2 ] . The economics of long tail markets have been further analyzed by Brynjolfsson et al . [ 4 , 5 , 6 ] , who provide a theoretical framework and empirical detail . They consider drivers that increase the collective share of niche products both on the supply side ( eg , lower stocking and distribution costs ) and the demand side ( eg , improved recommendation and search tools ) . On the other hand , Elberse et al . [ 9 , 10 ] have suggested that tail inventory is overrated . Noting that the number of DVD titles in the top 10 % of weekly sales dropped by more than 50 % from 2000 to 2005 , they conclude the importance of best sellers has been growing , not diminishing , over time . And Tan et al . [ 17 ] , after adjusting for increasing product variety , likewise find that demand for hits has been rising .
In contrast to past work , which primarily considers the volume of tail sales , we focus on consumer satisfaction and the resulting second order effects of tail inventory . By focusing on the consumer , we shed light on—and largely refute— the perception that niche content appeals only to a minority of consumers . In part , this misconception may be traced to what Levine describes as the “ emergence of a cultural hierarchy ” in early twentieth century America that established a stark divide between “ lowbrow ” and “ highbrow ” entertainment [ 12 ] . Looking primarily at high status individuals , Peterson et al . suggest a relatively recent “ historical shift from highbrow snob to omnivore is taking place ” [ 14 , 15 ] . Although we do not explicitly address the cultural status of consumers’ choices , our results are consistent with this view of “ omnivorous ” individuals .
Elberse [ 9 ] , writing in Harvard Business Review , reaches qualitative conclusions similar to some of our observations . Specifically , she posits in part that : ( 1 ) “ a large number of customers occasionally select obscure offerings ; ” and ( 2 ) “ customers with a large capacity for content venture into the tail . ” We provide extensive empirical evidence to support and refine these statements , and analyze , both empirically and theoretically , the consequences of these results on business strategies . Elberse further argues that consumers appreciate obscure movies less than popular movies , and thus advises retailers to “ resist the temptation to direct customers to the tail . ” While we find—in agreement with Elberse— that popular movies receive the highest user ratings , the opposite appears to be true with music : The highest average ratings on Yahoo! Music are given to the most obscure songs . Furthermore , even in the case of movies , we find that typical users regularly give high marks to tail inventory ( cf . Section 332 )
Many authors have examined Web search query distributions . Spink et al . [ 11 , 16 ] studied query logs of the Excite search engine , and analyzed basic properties of this query stream . Later , Downey et al . [ 7 , 8 ] juxtaposed rare and common queries with rare and common information goals , and described distinctions in user behavior observed for queries and goals of differing rarity . We believe , however , that the long tail phenomenon previously has not been explicitly addressed in the context of Web search .
3 . EMPIRICAL ANALYSIS 3.1 Data Description
Our empirical results are based on an analysis of user behavior across five large datasets : ( 1 ) ratings on the movie rental service Netflix ; ( 2 ) ratings on the music service provider Yahoo! Music ; ( 3 ) queries on Yahoo! Search ; ( 4 ) clicked search results on Yahoo! Search ; and ( 5 ) Web browsing activity collected by the Nielsen Company . Summary statistics for these datasets are given in Table 1 .
We examined nearly 100 million Netflix movie ratings from over 400,000 users , and over 700 million Yahoo! Music ratings from over two million users . Netflix ratings were collected between November 1999 and December 2005 , and Yahoo! Music ratings were collected between 2002 and 2006 . As we are primarily concerned with user centric statistics , we excluded users for whom we have limited data . In particular , the Netflix dataset was trimmed to include only users who had rated at least 10 movies , and the Yahoo! Music dataset was trimmed to include only users that rated at least 20 songs.1 Additionally , the music dataset was comprised only of songs that received at least 20 ratings . In both datasets , users rated items ( ie , movies and songs , respectively ) on a five point scale , and the primary incentive for users to rate items was to receive personalized recommendations . In neither case was there a requirement that users have purchased or intend to purchase the items they rate . Although these rating records are distinct from purchase histories , we believe they provide a reasonable indication of user interests .
For Web search related data , we analyzed one month of Yahoo! search logs ( September , 2008 ) . Simple transformations ( eg , mild stemming ) were applied to collate equivalent queries . Furthermore , URLs for clicked search results were truncated to only include domains ; for example , http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Long_tail was normalized to enwikipediaorg Infrequent users—those who issued fewer than 10 queries , or clicked on fewer than 10 URLs in the month long dataset—were excluded from our analysis . In total , we considered approximately 2.6 billion queries and 2.5 billion click events across nearly 60 million users .
Analysis of Web browsing behavior was based on complete activity logs for the approximately 100,000 users in the Nielsen MegaPanel for the month of March , 2009 . Users in
1Trimming retains nearly all users in these datasets .
Items Users Observations
Movies 17,770 429,541
Music 702,896 2,156,792
512,323,034 57,524,526
99,548,085
755,480,158
2,613,137,669
Search Queries Clicked Search Results Web Browsing
20,301,327 57,758,157
2,491,026,154
2,012,617 109,315
287,189,911
Table 1 : Descriptive statistics for the five datasets analyzed . Observations correspond to ratings , queries , click events , and page views , as appropriate to the domain . Movie data obtained from Netflix ; music , search queries and clicked search results data obtained from Yahoo! ; and Web browsing data obtained from the Nielsen Company . the panel study were weighted based on their demographic attributes to mimic a representative sample of the US online population . As with the search data , Web domains were extracted from visited URLs ; in aggregate , users in our sample visited over two million unique domains and registered nearly 300 million page views . 3.2 The Long Tail of Consumption
Consistent with past work on the long tail , we find in all five datasets that : ( 1 ) a relatively small number of items account for a disproportionately large fraction of total consumption ; and ( 2 ) the tail , in aggregate , is nevertheless relatively heavy . We define the popularity of an item ( eg , a movie , a song , or a URL ) to be the fraction of total consumption fulfilled by that item . For example , the popularity of a given movie is defined to be the total number of times it was rated divided by the total number of movie ratings . Ranking items by their popularity ( with lower ranks corresponding to greater popularity ) , we consider inventories of the k most popular items . For movies and music , Figures 1(a ) and 1(b ) plot cumulative popularity as a function of the inventory size k ( eg , the fraction of total ratings that are for movies in the top k inventory ) . In particular , while the 100 most popular movies account for nearly 15 % of consumption , the 3,000 most popular movies—the number available in a typical brick and mortar DVD retailer—still leave 13 % of consumption unmet . Similarly , though the 1,000 most popular songs satisfy 13 % of demand , the 50,000 most popular—the number available at a large , physical music retailer such as Wal Mart—leave 34 % of consumption unfulfilled .
In the case of Web search and Web browsing , though there is no analog to a physical retailer , we still observe these same two characteristics . A mere ten Web sites account for over 15 % of page views , while the top 10,000 still leave over 20 % of consumption unaccounted for . This relationship for all five domains is illustrated in Figure 1(c ) , with a log log plot of popularity vs . normalized rank ( ie , rank divided by the total number of unique items in the given domain ) . 3.3 Individual Eccentricity 331 Tail Interests and Customer Satisfaction Next we begin to address our central question : To what extent do individuals have niche interests ? In particular , are most people satisfied by a relatively small inventory of high demand items—as suggested by conventional wisdom—or do people have more idiosyncratic tastes ?
For any given inventory of the k most popular items , we say that a user is p percent satisfied if at least p percent of the items they consume ( eg , rate , click , view , etc . ) are contained in the inventory . In the following we focus primarily on 100 % and 90 % satisfaction . By this definition of satisfaction , we find that only 11 % of Netflix users and only
5 % of Yahoo! Music users are 100 % satisfied by inventories comparable in size to those of large physical retailers ( ie , k = 3 , 000 and k = 50 , 000 , respectively ) . In other words , almost none of the users in these movie and music datasets exclusively rate items likely to be found in large , offline retailers . Moreover , only 63 % of Netflix users and only 32 % of Yahoo! Music users are at least 90 % satisfied by these limited—though seemingly large—traditional inventories . That is , one in ten times , fairly typical movie and music consumers in our datasets would likely be frustrated by the inventories of brick and mortar sellers . Figure 2 displays the complete 100 % and 90 % satisfaction curves as a function of inventory size . While 100 % satisfaction is approximately linear in inventory size , 90 % satisfaction is concave , quickly increasing before leveling off .
This pattern of relatively eclectic , and hence hard to satisfy , user interests suggests the value of tail inventory extends beyond direct revenue , contributing to second order benefits such as repeat patronage associated with increased customer satisfaction . For an inventory of the k most popular items , we compare : ( a ) cumulative popularity ( ie , the fraction of demand fulfilled by the inventory ) ; and ( b ) the fraction of users 100 % ( or 90 % ) satisfied by the inventory . Figure 3 plots the relationship between these two measures . In all of the five datasets , we see that small increases in cumulative popularity are associated with disproportionately large increases in satisfaction . For example , by moving from an inventory of 3000 movies to 3500 movies , cumulative popularity increases 2 % ( from 87 % to 89 % ) while 90 % satisfaction increases 7 % ( from 63 % to 70% ) . In other words , movies that in and of themselves account for only 2 % of demand could potentially grow the overall customer base 7 % by attracting newly satisfied consumers . Consequently , to the extent that increased satisfaction attracts both the mainstream and niche consumption of new customers , direct revenue calculations undervalue the tail .
While the revenue effects discussed above are particularly salient in the case of movie and music sales , an analogous interpretation holds for Web search . Providing high quality search results for a rare query class often requires considerable effort and expense . Before investing in such a project , it is hence natural to ask how many such queries are issued . Our results , however , suggest the importance of an additional question : How many users issue such queries ? Examining the search query dataset , we find that fulfilling an additional 1 % of consumption in the tail , by moving from 95 % to 96 % consumption fulfilled , results in a 6 % increase in 90 % satisfaction—from 80 % to 86 % . Supporting rare queries , that is , can disproportionately increase overall user satisfaction .
( a ) The long tail of Netflix . The dotted vertical line at 3,000 indicates the typical inventory size of a large brick andmortar retailer .
( b ) The long tail of Yahoo! Music . The dotted vertical line at 50,000 indicates the typical inventory size of a large brickand mortar retailer .
( c ) Long tails in movies , music , Web browsing , clicked search results , and search queries .
Figure 1 : The long tails of music , movies , search queries , clicked search results , and Web browsing .
332 Double Jeopardy In his influential book Formal Theories of Mass Behavior [ 13 ] , William McPhee predicted that the more obscure an item , the less likely it was to be appreciated by those who came across it . Hence , he characterized niche products to be in a state of double jeopardy—first , they were not generally known , and second , they were not generally liked by those who did know of them . Empirical support for this position is found both in Elberse ’s analysis of the Quickflix DVD rental data [ 9 ] , and also in our own examination of Netflix ( Figure 4(a) ) : in both movie datasets , average consumer ratings increase with popularity . Interestingly , however , a very different pattern emerges in the music dataset . Both the most popular and the least popular songs receive the highest ratings , with a dip in the middle of the inventory . In fact , the most obscure songs receive slightly higher average ratings than the most popular ones ( Figure 4(b) ) .
Citing the increase of movie ratings with popularity , Elbserse [ 9 ] suggests that the value of the tail has been overstated since users are disproportionately dissatisfied with niche inventory . To investigate this claim , we restricted our datasets and for each user only considered movies and songs that they rated highly ( ie , gave at least 4 out of 5 stars ) ; the corresponding satisfaction curve for Netflix movies is plotted in Figure 4(c ) . In particular , we find that 85 % of Netflix users and 91 % of Yahoo! music users rated highly a movie or song not likely to be found in a large , physical retailer ( ie , k = 3 , 000 and k = 50 , 000 , respectively ) . Moreover , for 32 % of Netflix users and for 56 % of Yahoo! Music users , at least 10 % of the items they rated highly were in the tail . Consequently , it seems hard to dismiss what appears to be widespread interest and appreciation for tail content .
333 A “ Null Hypothesis ” Model of Consumer
Preferences
The results above—which show that even typical users have a relatively high demand for tail items—suggest the following simple null model of user behavior . First , each user randomly decides how many items to consume ( ie , rate , view , click , etc. ) , adhering to the empirically observed , domain specific distribution of individual user consumption . Users then randomly select items to consume proportional to item popularity , with the selection being done without replacement ( ie , a user cannot select the same item more than once ) . Note that this model approximately preserves both the empirical distribution of user consumption and the empirical distribution of item popularity , but otherwise disregards any personal preferences for head or tail items , and hence represents the “ null hypothesis ” for the existence of such propensities .
Figure 2 displays the 100 % and 90 % satisfaction curves for the movie and music null models as a function of inventory size , together with the empirically observed ( “ reality ” ) curves . By construction these models capture the fact that typical users regularly consume items not available at limited inventory retailers . However , the null models predict that users are much harder to satisfy than what we observe in reality . In particular , only 14 % of users in the movie model are at least 90 % satisfied by brick and mortar sized inventories ( compared to 63 % in the data ) ; and approximately none of the users in the music model are at least 90 % satisfied by offline inventories ( compared to 32 % in the data ) . This indicates that in reality there is a sizable fraction of users whose preference for head over tail content extends beyond the relative popularity of the head over the tail , and the null hypothesis can be rejected . That is , although nearly all users consume tail content at least part of the time , it appears that some users draw disproportionately from the head while others draw disproportionately from the tail . 334 To further investigate this variance in individual preferences , for each user we define his eccentricity—the median rank of items he has consumed , where items , as before , are ordered by popularity . In particular , higher eccentricity corresponds to on average consuming less popular items .
Individual Variation in Taste
Figure 5 shows the distribution of eccentricity among users for movies , music , and Web browsing . In all three domains , there is significant variation between individuals , evidenced by relatively wide interquartile ranges : [ 226 − 683 ] ,
050001000015000000408RankCumulative Popularity0e+002e+054e+056e+050204060810RankCumulative Popularity1e−091e−051e−011e−101e−04Normalized RankPopularitylllllllllllMoviesMusicWeb BrowsingSearch ResultsSearch Queries ( a ) Netflix . The dotted vertical line at 3,000 indicates the typical inventory size of a large brickand mortar retailer . The two upper curves are 90 % satisfaction , and the two lower curves are 100 % satisfaction .
( b ) Yahoo! Music . The dotted vertical line at 50,000 indicates the typical inventory size of a large brickand mortar retailer . The two upper curves are 90 % satisfaction , and the two lower curves are 100 % satisfaction .
Figure 2 : 90 % and 100 % user satisfaction curves for movies and music as a function of inventory size . The solid lines correspond to empirically observed data , and the dashed lines represent a null model where users select items proportional to popularity .
[ 2774 − 16890 ] and [ 138 − 2156 ] , respectively . Furthermore , analogous to the results of Section 333 , user eccentricity is considerably larger under the movie and music null models than is seen in the data . Interestingly , in the case of Web browsing , typical eccentricity under the null model is comparable to what is empirically observed ; the significant difference , however , is that the empirical eccentricity distribution has a much heavier tail.2
Figure 7 : Average eccentricity vs . engagement for Web browsing , where we consider only unique sites .
Finally , we examine the relationship between eccentricity and engagement—the number of items an individual consumes . One might reasonably suspect that those who watch
2In the Web browsing null models , users select items ( ie , URLs ) with replacement , since users may view—and regularly do view—the same Web page more than once . more movies , listen to more songs , or view more Web pages , are also more eccentric . Nevertheless , we find only weak correlations between engagement and eccentricity for movies ( 0.2 ) , music ( 0.1 ) , and Web browsing ( 0.1 ) , where the correlation is actually negative in the last case . Hence , at the level of individuals , engagement is not a strong predictor of eccentricity .
Individual variance , however , masks a pronounced effect of engagement on mean , group level eccentricity . For example , those who rate approximately three thousand songs on Yahoo! Music are , on average , more than twice as eccentric ( 35,310 ) as those who rate approximately five hundred songs ( 16,821 ) . Figure 6 shows this effect of engagement on average eccentricity , where users are binned on the x axis according to their level of engagement , and the mean eccentricity of users in each bucket is given on the y axis . In the case of movies and music , mean eccentricity increases linearly with engagement . Moreover , relative to the null model of Section 333 , light users draw disproportionately from the head , and heavy users from the tail .
For Web browsing , however , where engagement corresponds to page views , mean eccentricity is approximately independent of engagement . Considering page views to be a proxy for time , this indicates that , on average , light and heavy Internet users spend their time on Web sites of comparable popularity . However , if instead of page views we consider unique URLs visited , we see that mean eccentricity increases with engagement , analogous to movies and music ( Figure 7).3
3Specifically , the popularity of a site is now defined to be the number of users who have visited it at least once , a user ’s engagement is the number of unique URLs she has visited , and her eccentricity is the median rank of these unique URLs .
050001000015000000204060810Inventory SizePercent of Users SatisfiedNull ModelReality0e+002e+054e+056e+05000204060810Inventory SizePercent of Users SatisfiedNull ModelRealityllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll0100200300400050000150000EngagementEccentricityllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllNull ModelReality Figure 3 : 90 % and 100 % satisfaction as a function of cumulative popularity for inventories of the top k items . In all five domains , small increases in cumulative item popularity are associated with disproportionately large increases in satisfaction .
( a ) Average movie ratings as a function of popularity , where movies are binned into buckets of size 100 .
( b ) Average music ratings as a function of popularity , where songs are binned into buckets of size 1000 .
( c ) Satisfaction curves on Netflix when we restrict to highly rated movies .
Figure 4 : An analysis of user generated ratings for movies and music . and Gk,α(x ) is convex for x < x∗ and concave for x > x∗ . Furthermore ,
!k
«
„ α
1 − α
−→ exp
∗ Gk,α(x
) =
1 −
1 + ( k−1)(α−1 ) where the limit is taken as k → ∞ .
α
1 is given by
Gk,α(x ) = [ Fα(x)]k =
Proof . Begin by observing that the CDF of the max M
»
1 − 1 xα−1
–k
–k−1
»
4 . THEORETICAL ANALYSIS
We start by analyzing the shape of user satisfaction curves under a simple model of behavior . We then show , more generally , how small differences in inventory between competing retailers may lead to winner take all outcomes .
Consider a continuous analog of the null model in Section 333 , where users independently select items proportional to popularity . For α > 1 , suppose the item popularity distribution is described by a power law with exponent α supported on [ 1,∞ ) . That is , the cumulative distribution function ( CDF ) of popularity is given by Fα(x ) = 1 − 1/xα−1 , and its corresponding density is fα(x ) = ( α−1)/xα . In this case , Theorem 1 describes the shape of the 100 % user satisfaction curve as a function of inventory size . for x ≥ 1 and Gk,α(x ) = 0 otherwise . Taking derivatives , we have
Gk,α(x ) = k(α − 1 )
1 − 1 xα−1
−α x
Theorem 1 . Consider the selection model described above . For k ≥ 1 an integer , suppose X1 , . . . , Xk are independent draws from the distribution Fα and let M = max(X1 , . . . , Xk ) . Denote the CDF of M by Gk,α(x ) . Then Gk,α(x ) has an inflection point at d dx and
„
∗ x
=
1 +
( k − 1)(α − 1 )
α
«1/(α−1 ) d2 dx2 Gk,α(x ) = k(α − 1 )
«k−2
„ ×ˆ(k − 1)(α − 1 ) + α − αxα−1˜ .
1 − 1 xα−1
−2α x
In the null model , selection is done without replacement .
The first four terms are positive for x > 1 , and so the unique
Cumulative PopularityPercent of Users Satisfied000204060810Movies000204060810Music000204060810Web Browsing000204060810Search Results000204060810Search Queries000204060810Satisfaction90%100%llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll0500010000150002025303540RankRatinglllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll0e+002e+054e+056e+052025303540RankRating050001000015000000408Inventory SizePercent of Users Satisfied90 % Satisfaction100 % Satisfaction ( a ) Netflix
( b ) Yahoo! Music
( c ) Web Browsing ( Nielsen )
Figure 5 : Distribution of user eccentricity for movies , music , and Web browsing , where eccentricity is the median rank of consumed items . In the null model , users select items proportional to item popularity .
( a ) Netflix
( b ) Yahoo! Music
( c ) Web Browsing ( Nielsen )
Figure 6 : Average user eccentricity vs . engagement for movies , music , and Web browsing , where eccentricity is the median rank of consumed items and engagement corresponds to the number of ratings/page views . In the null model , users select items proportional to item popularity . inflection point is given by the last term . That is ,
„
∗ x
=
1 +
( k − 1)(α − 1 )
α
«1/(α−1 )
.
Furthermore , it is clear that the second derivative is positive for 1 < x < x∗ and negative for x∗ < x < ∞ , proving the concavity statements . Finally , evaluating Gk,α(x ) at x∗ yields
!k
.
∗ Gk,α(x
) =
1 −
1
1 + ( k−1)(α−1 )
α
Taking the logarithm , together with a simple application of l’Hˆopital ’s rule , shows that
∗ k→∞ Gk,α(x lim
) = exp
„ α
«
1 − α
.
Intuitively , X1 , . . . , Xk in Theorem 1 indicate the ranks of k items selected by the consumer . Thus , Gk,α(x ) can be interpreted as the probability the consumer would find all k items in an inventory of size x ( ie , that he would be 100 % satisfied ) . What the theorem then shows is that satisfaction at first rapidly increases as a function of inventory size ( ie , is convex ) before eventually leveling off .
Next we discuss how small differences in inventory can lead to large revenue disparities . Suppose there is a universe of items Ω = {x1 , x2 , . . . , xN} , and two retailers A and B with respective inventories IA , IB ⊆ Ω . We consider two descriptions of customer behavior , the independent model and the sticky model . In both cases , we assume there is a positive distribution Q such that customers select items xi ∈ Ω with probability Q(xi ) .
• Independent Model . The customer first draws an item xi ∈ Ω according to the distribution Q , and then selects one of the retailers A or B randomly with equal probability . If the selected retailer carries the selected item , she buys it ; otherwise she checks for the item at the competing retailer , purchasing xi there if it is available .
Eccentricity0500100015002000Null ModelRealityEccentricity0100002000030000Null ModelRealityEccentricity01000200030004000Null ModelRealityllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll05001500250050015002500EngagementEccentricityllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllNull ModelRealitylllllllllllllllllllllllll0100030005000150003000045000EngagementEccentricitylllllllllllllllllllllllllllNull ModelRealityllllllllllllllllllllllll020006000100000200040006000EngagementEccentricitylllllllllllllllllllllllllllNull ModelReality • Sticky Model . The customer first draws an item xi ∈ Ω according to the distribution Q . However , instead of randomly selecting a retailer , she first searches the retailer from whom she most recently purchased an item . As before , she buys the item from that retailer if it is available , otherwise she attempts to purchase the item from the competing retailer . Note that at the start of the process , the customer selects an initial preferred retailer where she begins her searches up until making her first purchase .
Theorem 2 derives the long term fraction of sales completed by each retailer under these two models of consumer behavior .
Theorem 2 . Consider the independent and sticky models of customer behavior described above . For a given customer u , set Yi = 1 if the ith item u attempts to purchase was eventually obtained at retailer A , and set Yi = 0 otherwise . Under the independent model lim n→∞
1 n
Yi = Q(IA ∩ IB ) +
Q(IA ∩ IB ) as
1 2 nX k=1
Under the sticky model :
1 . If IA = IB and u ’s initial preferred retailer is A , then nX k=1 lim n→∞
1 n
Yi = Q(IA ) as
2 . If IA = IB and u ’s initial preferred retailer is B , then
Yi = 0 for all i .
3 . If IA = IB , then regardless of u ’s initial preferred re k=1
+ Q(IA ∩ IB)Q(IB|IA∆IB ) as where IA∆IB = ( IA ∪ IB ) \ ( IA ∩ IB ) indicates the symmetric difference of the two inventory sets .
Proof . We first analyze the independent model . Let xi be the ith item selected by u , and note that the indicator variables Yi are independent and identically distributed . Then Yi = 1 if either : ( 1 ) xi ∈ IA ∩ IB ( ie , xi can be found at retailer A but not at retailer B ) ; or ( 2 ) xi ∈ IA ∩ IB and u first searched for xi at A . Consequently ,
P ( Yi = 1 ) = Q(IA ∩ IB ) +
Q(IA ∩ IB ) .
1 2
The result now follows from the strong law of large numbers . Next we consider the sticky model with IA = IB . Then u will never switch retailers , since if she can’t find what she is looking for at one retailer , than she will not find it at the other retailer either . Consequently , if she initially prefers B , she will never buy anything from A ( ie , Yi = 0 for all i ) . On , the other hand , if she initially prefers A , the Yi are independent and identically distributed with expectation EYi = Q(IA ) . The result now again follows from the strong law of large numbers . We analyze the case IA = IB by a Markov chain on three states : {As , Af , B} , where As indicates u just successfully purchased an item from retailer A , Af indicates that u failed nX tailer lim n→∞
1 n
Yi = Q(IA)Q(IA|IA∆IB )
π = to purchase an item from A but will still attempt to purchase her next item from A first ( ie , B also failed to stock the item ) , and B indicates that u will attempt to purchase her next item from B first . The transition matrix K for this Markov chain is as follows :
As g g q
Af
1 − ( p + g ) 1 − ( p + g )
0
B p p 1 − q
As Af B where
• p = Q(IA∩IB ) is the probability of not finding an item at A but finding it at B ; hence , p is the probability of transitioning from As to B , and also the probability of transitioning from Af to B .
• q = Q(IB∩IA ) is the probability of not finding an item at B but finding it at A ; hence , q is the probability of transitioning from B to As .
• g = Q(IA ) is the probability an item is carried by A ; hence , g is the probability of transitioning from Af to As , and also the probability of transitioning from As and As .
Note that since IA = IB , p + q = Q(IA∆IB ) > 0 .
We are interested in the long run average time the chain spends in state As . The stationary distribution for K is given by the unique row vector π such that πK = π and such that the entries of π sum to 1 . Finding π consequently reduces to computing the ( right ) null space of K T −I , where I is the identity matrix . From an elementary computation , it follows that
„ q(p + g )
, p + q q[1 − ( p + g ) ] p + q
, p p + q
«
.
Now ,
π(As ) = q(p + g ) p + q Q(IB ∩ IA)Q(IA ∩ IB )
Q(IB ∩ IA)Q(IA )
Q(IA∆IB )
= = Q(IA)Q(IA|IA∆IB ) + Q(IA ∩ IB)Q(IB|IA∆IB ) . Finally , the result follows from the ergodic theorem for Markov chains ( see eg , Theorem 4.1 in [ 3] ) .
Q(IA∆IB )
+
When IA = IB , Theorem 2 shows that the fraction of demand ultimately fulfilled at retailer A is a weighted average of Q(IA ) and Q(IA ∩ IB ) , where the weight on Q(IA ) is given by Q(IA|IA∆IB ) . This result thus highlights the importance in the sticky model of stocking distinctive content ( ie , content only available at one retailer ) .
Moreover , unlike in the independent model , the sticky model can result in winner take all dynamics . Specifically , in the independent model , since
Q(IA ∩ IB ) +
1 2
Q(IA ∩ IB ) = Q(IA ) − 1 2
Q(IA ∩ IB )
≥ 1 2
Q(IA )
A will convert at least Q(A)/2 fraction of demand to sales , regardless of B ’s inventory . In the sticky model , however , if
IA IB ( ie , if B has everything A has plus some more ) , then Q(IA|IA∆IB ) = 0 , and A will consequently complete a vanishing fraction of sales since the customer will never have reason to switch from B to A .
As seen above , repeat business from satisfied customers can substantially outweigh revenue from any single purchase . This suggests significant gains are possible from so called shared inventory business arrangements . As before , we suppose there are two retailers A and B with inventories IA , IB ⊆ Ω . However , we further suppose that A partners with another merchant C , selling items on C ’s behalf when A does not itself stock an item . This model approximates Amazon Marketplace and eBay ’s Half.com , the key difference being that in our model A receives no direct revenue from selling C ’s items . Thus , the shared inventory model isolates the second order benefits of hosting another merchant ’s inventory .
• Shared Inventory Model . As with the sticky model , the customer first selects an item xi ∈ Ω according to Q , and then starts his search at the retailer A or B from whom he most recently purchased an item , searching the other retailer next if he cannot find what he is looking for . When the customer searches A , however , A makes available both its own inventory and the inventory of C . If both A and C carry the item , A sells its own copy . If C carries the item but A does not , then A sells the item on C ’s behalf , taking no direct profit from the sale . In this latter case the customer still begins his next search at retailer A .
Theorem 3 . Consider the shared inventory model above . For a given customer u , set Yi = 1 if the ith item u attempts to purchase was eventually obtained at retailer A from A ’s own inventory , and set Yi = 0 otherwise ; set Zi = 1 if this ith item was eventually obtained at retailer A from C ’s inventory , and set Zi = 0 otherwise . If IA ∪ IC = IB then
Yi = Q(IA)Q(IA ∪ IC|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB )
+ Q(IA ∩ IB)Q(IB|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) as nX k=1 lim n→∞
1 n and lim n→∞
1 n nX k=1
Zi = Q(IC ∩ IA)Q(IA ∪ IC|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB )
+ Q(IC ∩ IA ∪ IB)Q(IB|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) as regardless of u ’s initial preference .
Proof . As with Theorem 2 , we analyze a Markov chain on three states : {As , Af , B} , where As indicates u successfully purchased an item from retailer A from A ’s own inventory , Af indicates that u failed to purchase an item from A ’s inventory but will still attempt to purchase her next item from A first ( ie , either A sold her the item from C ’s inventory on C ’s behalf , or the item was not available from A , B or C ) , and B indicates that u will attempt to purchase her next item from B first . The transition matrix K for this Markov chain is as follows :
As g g q
Af
1 − ( p + g ) 1 − ( p + g ) r
As Af B
B p p
1 − ( q + r ) where
• p = Q(IA ∪ IC ∩ IB ) is the probability of not finding an item in A ’s or C ’s inventory , but finding it at B ; hence , p is the probability of transitioning from As to B , and also the probability of transitioning from Af to B .
• q = Q(IB ∩ IA ) is the probability of not finding an item at B but finding it inA ’s inventory ; hence , q is the probability of transitioning from B to As .
• g = Q(IA ) is the probability an item is in A ’s inventory ; hence , g is the probability of transitioning from Af to As , and also the probability of transitioning from As and As .
• r = Q(IA ∪ IB ∩ IC ) is the probability of not finding an item in A ’s or B ’s inventory , but finding it in C ’s inventory ; hence r is the probability of transitioning from B to Af .
Observe that r + q = Q((IA ∪ IC ) ∩ IB ) , and hence r + p + q = Q((IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) . In particular , since IA ∪ IC = IB , r + p + q > 0 . An elementary computation shows that the stationary distribution for the Markov chain K is r + q − ( gr + qp + gq ) r + q + p
,
, p r + q + p
«
.
„ gr + qp + gq r + q + p
π =
Now ,
π(As ) = g(r + q ) r + q + p
+ qp
= Q(IA ) r + q + p
Q((IA ∪ IC ) ∩ IB ) Q((IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) + Q(IA ∩ IB )
Q(IA ∪ IC ∩ IB ) Q((IA ∪ IC )∆IB )
= Q(IA)Q(IA ∪ IC|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) i=1 Yi now follows from
+ Q(IA ∩ IB)Q(IB|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) .
The result follows for limn→∞ 1/nPn To analyze limn→∞ 1/nPn the ergodic theorem for Markov chains [ 3 ] . i=1 Zi , first note that without loss of generality we may set I ˜C = IC ∩ IA and analyze the behavior of A , B , ˜C , since an item is purchased from C ’s inventory only if it is not in A ’s inventory . Now , since A and ˜Cs inventory is disjoint , we can interchange their roles ( ie , it is equivalent to first search ˜C ’s inventory , and then A ’s inventory ) . Consequently , we can use the result for i=1 Yi , replacing IA with IC ∩ IA and IC with limn→∞ 1/nPn
IA .
As in the sticky model , the fraction of demand ultimately fulfilled at retailer A under the shared inventory model is a weighted average of Q(IA ) and Q(IA ∩ IB ) . However , the weight on Q(IA ) increases from Q(IA|IA∆IB ) under the sticky model to Q(IA ∪ IC|(IA ∪ IC )∆IB ) under the shared inventory model . In particular , even though A does not receive any direct revenue from C , A nevertheless benefits from increased sales of its own merchandise .
5 . DISCUSSION
Looking at extensive data on user preferences for movies , music , Web search , and Web browsing , we find overwhelming evidence that the vast majority of users are a little bit eccentric , consuming niche products at least some of the time . These results largely refute the conventional wisdom that specialty products appeal only to a minority of consumers , and suggest that the benefit of tail inventory extends beyond direct revenue to second order gains associated with increased consumer satisfaction and repeat patronage . Namely , as formalized by our sticky model of consumer behavior , tail inventory may boost head sales by providing users a convenient one stop shop for both their mainstream and niche interests . Moreover , our analysis provides theoretical support for shared inventory business models such as Amazon Marketplace and Halfcom
Given the observed user eccentricity , one reasonable hypothesis is that users consume content proportional to popularity , but otherwise do not differentiate between head and tail items . We find , however , that this explanation does not adequately capture the empirical variation in user behavior . Specifically , relative to this null model , in reality light users disproportionately prefer the head while heavy users disproportionately prefer the tail .
Finally , it has been argued that consumers generally appreciate the tail less than the head , in turn diminishing the importance of large inventories [ 9 , 13 ] . Although we do find that popular movies receive the highest user ratings , the opposite appears to be true with music : the highest average ratings on Yahoo! Music are given to the most obscure songs . Furthermore , even in the case of movies , typical users regularly give high ratings to tail inventory , suggesting that users not only consume but in fact value specialty items .
One possible objection to these conclusions is that our results are a product of self selection bias . Netflix users , that is , may be precisely those individuals already frustrated with the limited selection of brick and mortar competitors . A related worry is that recommender systems are driving the consumption of specialty items , and thus the long tail does not reflect organic consumer demand . In particular , even if typical individuals are consuming—and appreciating—niche items , they may not miss the absence of such selection . We believe these concerns are mitigated by the consistency of our findings across several diverse domains—movies , music , Web search , and Web browsing . Moreover , in Web search and Web browsing , the effects of selection bias and recommender systems seem minimal .
The Internet , and infinite inventory retailers in particular , have had a profound and still evolving effect on consumers . The substantial consumption we observe of niche products is likely due to a combination of demand unfulfilled by traditional retailers , decreased search costs for online inventories , and recommender systems that promote specialty items [ 6 ] . It remains an important project to further identify and disentangle the root causes and consequences of consumers’ taste for the obscure .
Acknowledgments We thank Mainak Mazumdar and the Nielsen Company for providing Web browsing data , and Prabhakar Raghavan and Duncan Watts for helpful conversations .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Chris Anderson . The long tail . Wired Magazine ,
12(10):170–177 , 2004 .
[ 2 ] Chris Anderson . The Long Tail : Why the Future of
Business is Selling Less of More . Hyperion , 2006 .
[ 3 ] Pierre Br´emaud . Markov Chains , Gibbs Fields , Monte
Carlo Simulation , and Queues . Springer , 2008 . [ 4 ] Erik Brynjolfsson , Yu Jeffrey Hu , and Duncan
Simester . Goodbye pareto principle , hello long tail : The effect of search costs on the concentration of product sales . MIT Center for Digital Business Working Paper , 2007 .
[ 5 ] Erik Brynjolfsson , Yu Jeffrey Hu , and Michael D . Smith . Consumer surplus in the digital economy : Estimating the value of increased product variety at online booksellers . MIT Center for Digital Business Working Paper ( No . 4305 03 ) , 2003 .
[ 6 ] Erik Brynjolfsson , Yu Jeffrey Hu , and Michael D .
Smith . From niches to riches : Anatomy of the long tail . MIT Sloan Management Review , 47(4):67–71 , 2006 .
[ 7 ] Doug Downey , Susan Dumais , and Eric Horvitz .
Heads and tails : Studies of web search with common and rare queries . In SIGIR , 2007 .
[ 8 ] Doug Downey , Susan Dumais , Dan Liebling , and Eric
Horvitz . Understanding the relationship between searchers’ queries and information goals . In CIKM , 2008 .
[ 9 ] Anita Elberse . Should you invest in the long tail ?
Harvard Business Review , 86(7/8):88–96 , 2008 .
[ 10 ] Anita Elberse and Felix Oberholzer Gee . Superstars and underdogs : An examination of the long tail phenomenon in video sales . Harvard Business School Working Paper , No . 07 015 , 2006 .
[ 11 ] Bernard Jansen , Amanda Spink , and Tefko Saracevic .
Real life , real users , and real needs : a study and analysis of user queries on the web . Information Processing and Management , 36:207–227 , 2000 . [ 12 ] Lawrence W . Levine . Highbrow/Lowbrow : The
Emergence of Cultural Hierarchy in America . Harvard University Press , 1988 .
[ 13 ] William N . McPhee . Formal Theories of Mass
Behavior . Free Press of Glencoe , 1963 .
[ 14 ] Richard A . Peterson and Roger M . Kern . Changing highbrow taste : From snob to omnivore . American Sociological Review , 61:900–907 , 1996 .
[ 15 ] Richard A . Peterson and Albert Simkus . How musical taste groups mark occupational status groups . In M . Lamont and M . Fournier , editors , Symbolic Boundaries and the Making of Inequality , pages 152–68 . University of Chicago Press , 1992 .
[ 16 ] Amanda Spink , Dietmar Wolfram , Bernard Jansen , and Tefko Saracevic . Searching the web : The public and their queries . JASIST , 52(3):226–234 , 2001 .
[ 17 ] Tom F . Tan and Serguei Netessine . Is Tom Cruise threatened ? Using Netflix Prize data to examine the long tail of electronic commerce . Working Paper , 2009 .
