Mining Risk Patterns in Medical Data
Jiuyong Li
Department of Mathematics and Computing
University of Southern
Queensland
Toowoomba , Australia , 4350 jiuyong@usqeduau
Ada Wai chee Fu
Department of Computer Science and Engineering Chinese University of Hong
Kong adafu@csecuhkeduhk
Hongxing He , Jie Chen , Huidong Jin , Damien McAullay , Graham Williams1 , Ross Sparks ,
Chris Kelman2
CSIRO Mathematical and
Information Sciences ACT 2601 , Australia firstnamelastname@csiroau 1ATO,grahamwilliams@togawarecom 2NCEPH,ANU,chriskelman@anueduau
ABSTRACT In this paper , we discuss a problem of finding risk patterns in medical data . We define risk patterns by a statistical metric , relative risk , which has been widely used in epidemiological research . We characterise the problem of mining risk patterns as an optimal rule discovery problem . We study an anti monotone property for mining optimal risk pattern sets and present an algorithm to make use of the property in risk pattern discovery . The method has been applied to a real world data set to find patterns associated with an allergic event for ACE inhibitors . The algorithm has generated some useful results for medical researchers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications—Data mining ; J.3 [ Life and Medical Sciences ] : Health
General Terms Algorithm , performance
Keywords Relative risk , rule , optimal risk pattern set , medical application
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Over the years hospitals and clinics have collected a huge amount of patient data . These data provide a base for the analysis of risk factors for many diseases . For example , we can compare cancer patients with non cancer patients to find patterns associated with cancer . This method has been common practice in evidence based medicine , which is an approach to practising medicine in which a clinician is aware of the evidence in support of clinical practice , and the strength of that evidence . It is an effective way to generate hypotheses for further study , such as a randomized controlled trial or a cohort study . In a randomized controlled study , there are two groups , a treatment group and a control group . The treatment group receives the treatment under investigation , and the control group receives either no treatment or some standard default treatment . Patients are randomly assigned to all groups . A cohort study is a study where patients who presently have a certain condition and/or receive a particular treatment are followed over time and compared with another group without those conditions . The cohort study is used when it is not ethical to assign random patients to a harmful practice , say smoking , for a randomized controlled study . Instead the cohort study will find a group of people who smoke and a group of people who do not , and follow them forward through time to see what health problems they develop . See [ 1 ] for more details .
However , the comparison has usually been made by manually operating some data analysis tools , eg SPSS . This is a labor intensive process , and the comparison is very difficult to be exhaustive and it is very difficult to apply to high level interactions , for example , combination of 3 or 4 exposure variables . Data mining is a booming and comprehensive research area and a lot of novel methods dealing with large data sets have been proposed in the last decade . There are thousands of publications in data mining , but very few of them focus on applications on medical data . The following are some possible reasons .
Understandability of results Data mining results are typically difficult to interpret , and much effort is necessary for domain experts to turn the results to practical use . In general , users do not care how sophisticated a data mining method is , but they do care how understandable its results are . Therefore , no method is acceptable in practice unless its results are understandable . However , a lot of data mining methods have not achieved this goal yet . For example , it is difficult to interpret results from neural networks .
Decision tree , typified by [ 14 ] , can be extended to rules [ 15 ] , and their results are more straightforward to interpret . They have been used to solve classification problems in medical data analysis [ 10 , 19 ] . However , C4.5 does not work well on the skewed cases in medical data where the normal population greatly outnumbers the population with disease . Other rule based classification methods , eg CN2 [ 7 , 6 ] , suffer the same problem .
Amount of results The quantity of output from many data mining method is often unmanageable . For example it is quite impossible for domain experts to review a huge number of association rules . Association rule mining has been used in medical data analysis . Brossette et al [ 4 ] found association rules in hospital infection control and public surveillance data . Paetz et al [ 13 ] found association rules in septic shock patient data . Too many rules is a problem in both projects . Sequence patterns have been found in chronic hepatitis data by Ohsaki et al [ 12 ] , and on adverse drug reaction data by Chen et al [ 5 ] . However , these cases result in too many trivial and similar patterns which is also a problem in the research .
Parameter Tuning Many fast heuristic data mining methods need a lot of tuning and they are not easy for users to use . For example , k means clustering method can generate some very good results that are competitive with some advanced clustering methods , but the adjustment of parameters and initial setting are tedious for many users . Similar problem exists in the setting of support and confidence thresholds for association rule mining .
Efficiency Many optimal data mining methods are not efficient enough for the user interaction in practice . An optimal method needs less tuning than a heuristic method but it is usually time consuming . In practice , data mining is a user interactive process and therefore efficiency is very important . However , the efficiency of many data mining methods needs further improving .
For example , association rule mining is still inefficient when the minimum support is low . Some optimal rule discovery methods , eg PC optimality rule mining [ 2 ] and optimal class association rule set mining [ 9 ] are significantly more efficient and less restricted by the minimum support . In this paper , we shall show that mining risk patterns can be considered an optimal rule mining problem , and an efficient algorithm can be employed .
Interestingness Measure Another important factor is that risk patterns are not in line with most data mining objectives . Most data mining algorithms aim to uncover the more frequent patterns . In medical applications , the risk patterns usually exist in a small population . For example , a very small percentage of people are HIV positive or develop cancer . However , risk patterns are also not exactly outliers or exceptions , which also has been studied [ 8 ] . The reason is that among the small percentage of positive samples , we do want to see frequent patterns . Hence this requires a special measurement of interestingness .
There are a lot of proposed interestingness criteria for association rule mining , and a comprehensive comparison has been conducted in [ 17 ] . Some evaluation work on medical data sets has been reported in [ 11 ] . However , most criteria do not make sense to medical practitioners . So we should use those have been used in medical research , such as , relative risk and odds ratio .
In the paper , we will present an efficient method to exhaustively find all high risk patterns in high level interactions and present understandable results to medical practitioners .
2 . PROBLEM DEFINITIONS
We shall introduce the problem based on the scenario of the medical data , where we are given a target disease or identified risk . There is a large collection of patient records . Each record contains a number of attributes , and one of the attributes is the target . The target variable can take two possible values : normal and abnormal . A patient without the disease or risk under study is normal , otherwise abnormal .
2.1 Risk patterns
Consider a relational data set , where records are classified as two distinct categories , ie normal and abnormal . An example of such a data set is listed as follows .
. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .
Gender
Age
Smoking Blood pressure
Class
Y N N abnormal normal normal high normal normal
40 50 20 40 20 40
M M F The data set is usually very large and skewed , eg in a million records 99 % are normal . This is because a disease is usually rare in comparison with the healthy population . In the following we refer to the abnormal class by a and the normal class by n . We call a set of attribute value pairs a pattern , eg {Gender = M , Age in [ 40,50)} is a pattern with two attribute value pairs .
The support of pattern P is the ratio of the number of records containing P to the number of all records in the data set , denoted by supp(P ) . When the data set is large , we have supp(P ) ≈ prob(P ) .
A pattern is usually called frequent if its support is greater than a given threshold . However , in a medical data set , a pattern in the abnormal group would hardly be frequent since the abnormal cases are rare . Therefore , we define the local support of P as the support of P in the abnormal group , represented as lsupp(P ) = supp(P ∪ a ) supp(a )
Others have called this the recall of the rule ( P ⇒ a ) [ 11 ] . We prefer to call it local support since it observes the anti monotone property of the support . In this paper , a pattern is frequent if its local support is greater than a given threshold .
A pattern separates all records into two groups , a group with the pattern and another without the pattern , eg male between 40 and 50 and the rest .
Cohorts separated by a pattern P and the a and n classification form a contingency table . abnormal ( a ) prob(P , a ) prob(¬P , a ) prob(a ) normal ( n ) prob(P , n ) prob(¬P , n ) prob(n ) total prob(P ) prob(¬P )
1
P ¬P total
Relative risk for the cohort with pattern P being abnormal is defined as the following .
=
RR(P ) = prob(a|P )/ prob(a|¬P ) prob(¬P , a ) prob(¬P ) / supp(¬P a ) supp(¬P ) prob(P , a ) prob(P ) ≈ supp(P a ) supp(P ) supp(P a ) supp(¬P ) supp(¬P a ) supp(P )
=
/
¬P means that P does not occur . P a is an abbreviation of P ∪a . supp(¬P ) is the fraction of all records that do not contain P , and ¬P a refers to the records containing a but not P .
Relative risk is a metric often used in epidemiological studies . For example , if P is smoking , the abnormal is lung cancer , and RR = 3.0 , then this means people who smoke are three times more likely to get lung cancer than those who do not .
Another statistical metric often used in epidemiological study is odds ratio . Odds ratio and relative risk are consistent . A larger odds ratio leads to a larger relative risk , and vice versa . Under the rare disease assumption , the odds ratio approximates the relative risk [ 3 ] . The odds ratio is usually used in case control studies . In this paper we make use of the relative risk .
Definition 1 Risk patterns are frequent patterns whose relative risks are higher than a threshold .
A risk pattern is in fact a rule targeting the abnormal class . Since we are only concerned with the abnormal class , we omit the target of a rule and call it a pattern .
Our primitive goal is to find all risk patterns in a large data set .
2.2 Classification and association rule mining do not work well
This problem looks like a traditional classification problem , but all existing classification methods , eg C4.5 [ 15 ] , do not work well on these highly skewed data sets . The problem lies with the accuracy measurement for this problem . For example , assume a data set contains 100 abnormal cases and 9900 normal cases . Any noises in the normal class , say 1 % , overwhelm all patterns in the abnormal class . Therefore , no accurate rules can be found for the abnormal class . Furthermore , most classification systems employ a default prediction . In this case , setting the default to be normal will give 99 % accuracy but this accuracy has no meanings for medical practitioners . Although C4.5 has suggested some remedies for skewed data , from our experiences it is still short of solving the problem .
Another important factor , which is different from classification rule mining , is that doctors or patients are interested in knowing the increase in risk of a certain pattern over cases without the pattern . For example , how much would smoking increase the chance of lung cancer . This is a comparison between the chance of lung cancer in the smoking population versus the chance of lung cancer in the non smoking population . Conventional classification results would not directly give such an indication .
The primitive goal looks like that of association rule mining , but an association rule mining algorithm is not suitable for this problem . Association rule mining finds rules whose support and confidence are above some minimum thresholds . Rules in the abnormal class are easily ignored since they are lowly supported . Also , it is very difficult to find high confidence rules since confidence is an accuracy measurement and suffers the same problem discussed previously . Further , we are interested in rules that generate patterns of high relative risk instead of high confidence rules .
We may alter an association rule mining algorithm for this purpose . We may restrict the results to patterns that are frequent in the abnormal class only , assuming a support threshold is given for the abnormal class . We may also replace the confidence by the relative risk in association rule mining . However , too many rules from an association rule mining algorithm scare away users , and low efficiency with a low support constraint hinders the users’ interaction .
2.3 Optimal risk pattern sets
We follow the track of association rule mining , and will solve two problems : too many rules in the result and low efficiency with a low support constraint .
Many patterns from association rule mining are not of interest to users ( since we consider one class only , rules are equivalent to patterns ) For example , we have two patterns , {SEX = M and HRTFAIL = T and LIVER = T} with relative risk 2.3 , and {HRTFAIL = T and LIVER = T} with relative risk 24 SEX = M in the first pattern does not increase relative risk and hence the first pattern is superfluous . Thus we introduce the optimal risk pattern set to exclude these superfluous patterns .
Definition 2 A risk pattern set is optimal if it includes all risk patterns except those whose relative risks are less than or equal to that of one of their sub patterns .
In the above example , the first pattern will not be in the optimal risk pattern set because it is a super set of the second pattern but has lower relative risk .
We are aware that some interesting patterns may not be in the optimal risk pattern set . We use an example to show our points . Suppose that we have the following three patterns : ( 1 ) PVD = T with RR 3.0 , ( 2 ) SEX = F and PVD = T with RR 2.0 and ( 3 ) SEX = M and PVD = T with RR 40
Patterns ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) are very interesting since any record with PVD = T will be explained by one of them . However , pattern ( 2 ) is excluded by the optimal risk pattern set .
This is a typical example showing that we need patterns in the whole range of relative risk , both small and large . However , consider that we have generated thousands of patterns . Which patterns should we choose to present to users ? Normally , we have to rely on a metric . In our case , it is the high relative risk . As a result , patterns with lower relative risk will be ignored anyway .
One goal of this research is to identify some possible high risk patterns for further studies . For the easy examination by domain experts , the found risk patterns are further reduced to representative patterns by a high relative risk criterion . Therefore , patterns with lower relative risks have no chance to be presented to users .
After a small set of interesting patterns with high relative risk are identified , their relevant patterns with lower relative risk are easily retrieved . For example , assume that pattern ( 3 ) is found and identified as an interesting pattern by domain experts . Patterns ( 2 ) will be retrieved easily . This has been done in our rule exploration stage .
Therefore , we may focus on the patterns with higher relative risks in pattern generation stage , and ignore the patterns with lower relative risks since otherwise results will be confused .
Our primary goal turns to to find optimal risk pattern sets since it accounts for the major computational cost .
3 . ANTI MONOTONE PROPERTY OF
OPTIMAL RISK PATTERN SETS
In this section , we will explore an anti monotone property to sup port efficiently mining optimal risk pattern sets .
The following are some notations that are used in the following lemma and corollary .
P x is a proper super pattern of P with one additional attributevalue pair x . To make the result general and be applicable to multiple classes , we use ¬a to stand for classes that are not abnormal . In the two class case shown in the previous section , ¬a = n . We have the following relationships : supp(¬a ) = 1 − supp(a ) , supp(P¬a ) = supp(P ) − supp(P a ) , and supp(P x¬a ) = supp(P x ) − supp(P xa ) .
Lemma 1 Anti monotone property if ( supp(P x¬a ) = supp(P¬a ) ) then pattern P x and all its super patterns do not occur in the optimal risk pattern set .
PROOF . We omit proof here because of space limit .
From the above lemma , we can adopt a pruning technique as follows : once we observe that any pattern , eg P x , satisfying supp(P x¬a ) = supp(P¬a ) , we do not need to search for its super patterns , eg P Qx since their relative risks cannot be greater than those of their sub patterns , eg P Q . Pattern P x is also removed since RR(P x ) ≤ RR(P ) .
The lemma is followed by a corollary .
Corollary 1 Closure property if ( supp(P x ) = supp(P ) ) then pattern P x and all its super patterns do not occur in the optimal risk pattern set .
This corollary is closely association with non redundant association rule mining [ 18 ] because P is a proper generator of P x when supp(P x ) = supp(P ) . A non redundant association rule set is generated from a set of minimal generators . Consider this corollary is a special case for the anti monotone property , and hence mining optimal risk pattern sets does not make use of all minimal generators and is more efficient .
Corollary 1 is used in a similar way as Lemma 1 . The condition for Corollary 1 is stricter than that for Lemma 1 .
4 . ALGORITHMS
A naive method to find an optimal risk rule set is to post prune an association rule set but this may be very inefficient when the minimum support is low and the data set is large and dense .
Our optimal risk pattern mining algorithm makes use of the antimonotone property to efficiently prune searching space , and this distinguishes it from an association rule mining algorithm .
The efficiency of an association rule mining algorithm lies in its efficient forward pruning infrequent itemsets . An itemset is frequent if its support is greater than the minimum support . An itemset is potentially frequent only if all its subsets are frequent , and this property is used to limit the number of itemsets to be searched . The anti monotone property of frequent itemsets makes forward pruning possible .
Lemma 1 and Corollary 1 are used to forward prune of risk patterns that do not occur in the optimal risk pattern set . When a pattern satisfies the condition of Lemma 1 or Corollary 1 , all its super patterns are pruned . A pseudo code algorithm for mining optimal risk pattern sets is presented in the following .
Algorithm 1 Mining Optimal Risk Pattern Sets Input : data set D , the minimum support σ in abnormal class a , and the minimum relative risk threshold θ . Output : optimal risk pattern set R ( Note : An l pattern contains l attribute value pairs . ) Global data structure : l pattern sets for 1 ≤ l 1 ) Set R = ∅ 2 ) Count support of 1 patterns in abnormal class 3 ) Generate 1 pattern set 4 ) Select risk patterns and add them to R 5 ) new pattern set ← Generate(2 pattern set ) 6 ) While new pattern set is not empty 7 ) 8 ) 9 ) 10 ) 11 ) Return R
Count supports of candidates in new pattern set Prune(new pattern set ) Select risk patterns and add them to R new pattern set ← Generate(next level pattern set )
The above algorithm is self explanatory . We list two important functions as follows .
Function 1 Generate( ( l + 1) pattern set )
// Combining
1 ) Let ( l + 1) pattern set be empty set 2 ) For each pair of patterns Sl−1p and Sl−1q in l pattern set 3 )
Insert candidate Sl−1pq in ( l + 1) pattern set // Pruning For all Sl ⊂ Sl−1pq
4 ) 5 )
If Sl does not exist in l pattern set
6 ) 7 ) Return ( l + 1) pattern set
Then remove candidate Sl−1pq quent patterns and optimal risk patterns .
In the proposed algorithm , pattern P is frequent if supp(P a )
Line ( 5 ) is implemented by the anti monotone properties of fresupp(a ) ≥ σ . In other words , it is frequent in sub data set containing a . This is because the data set can be very skewed , and even a is not frequent in the whole data set .
Function 2 Prune((l + 1) pattern set ) 1 ) For each pattern S in ( l + 1) pattern set 2 ) 3 )
If supp(Sa)/ supp(a ) ≤ σ then remove pattern S Else if there is a sub pattern S0 in l pattern set such that supp(S0 ) = supp(S ) or supp(S0¬a ) = supp(S¬a )
4 ) 5 ) Return
Then remove pattern S
Line ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are implemented according to Lemma 1 and Corollary 1 . They are very effective and the resultant algorithm is significantly more efficient than an association rule mining algorithm .
An optimal risk pattern set is significantly smaller than an association rule set , but is still too big for medical practitioners to review them all . We may only return k top patterns with the highest relative risk but they may all come from a dense section of the data set and lack the representation for all abnormal cases .
In order to account for all known abnormal cases , we aim to retain one risk pattern with the highest relative risk among a number of patterns for each case . We use the following method to select a small set of representative patterns to present to users .
Algorithm 2 Selecting Representative Risk Patterns Input : data set D , and optimal risk pattern set R . Output : representative risk pattern set R0 1 ) Set R0 = ∅ 2 ) For each record r in D belonging to class a 3 ) 4 ) 5 ) Sort all patterns in R0 in the RR decreasing order 6 ) Return R0
Find all patterns in R that are subsets of r Add the pattern with the highest relative risk to R0
As a result , each abnormal record in D has its own representative risk pattern in R0 whenever possible . Through the above selection , the number of patterns becomes quite manageable .
We do not throw away the remaining risk patterns . Instead we organize them into a tree structure and hide them behind each representative pattern by using a hyper link . As a result , medical practitioners can easily examine the representative patterns and find their related patterns . This is very useful for finding the evolution of relative risk .
5 . AN APPLICATION
This method has been applied to a real world project of detecting adverse drug reactions . The project has been sponsored by the Australian Commonwealth Department of Health and Aging . The data set used is a linked data set of hospital , pharmaceutical and medical service data .
When a new drug is introduced , unexpected side effects may go unnoticed until a large number of cases are reported . It is of importance both financially and socially to detect the adverse effects early . We apply our proposed technique on this problem . In particular we focus on the study to determine how ACE inhibitor usage is associated with Angioedema .
ACE inhibitors are used to treat congestive heart failure ( CHF ) and high blood pressure ( hypertension ) . ACE inhibitors may also be prescribed to patients after a heart attack or to patients with certain kind of kidney problems , especially with diabetes . Angioedema is a swelling ( large welts or weals ) , where the swelling is beneath the skin rather than on the surface . It is associated with the release of histamine and other chemicals into the bloodstream , and is part of the allergic response . The swelling may occur in the face , neck , and in severe cases may compromise breathing .
Our goal is to identify what types of patients are at risk of Angioedema after taking ACE inhibitors . The data for this task consists of all patients exposed to ACE inhibitors . Class a includes all patients who got Angioedema after taking ACE inhibitors , and class n ( or ¬a ) includes all the other patients taking ACE inhibitors but without Angioedema .
Patients are described by 12 general attributes , such as age , gender , indigenous status , the total number of bed days and the eight hospital diagnosis flags , and 15 pharmaceutical attributes , ie 14 ATC ( Anatomical and Therapeutic Classification ) level 1 drugs and the total number of scripts . Numerical attributes are discretised following the instructions of domain experts .
The data set contains 132000 cases , where only 114 are allergic cases . Therefore , the data set is highly skewed .
We set the minimum local support as 0.05 , the maximum number of attribute value pairs in a risk pattern as 4 , and the minimum relative risk as 20 The program finished within 1 minute . It returned 417 risk patterns , and 37 representative patterns .
The following are the first three representative patterns with the highest relative risk .
Pattern 1 : RR = 3.99
• Gender = Female • Hospital Circulatory Flag = Yes • Usage of Drugs in category “ Various ” = Yes
Pattern 2 : RR = 3.82 • Age > 60 • Usage of drugs in category of “ Genito urinary system and sex hormones ” = Yes
• Usage of drugs in category of “ Systematic hormonal prepara tions ” = Yes
Pattern 3 : RR = 3.41
• Usage of drugs in category of “ Genito urinary system and sex hormones ” = Yes
• Usage of drugs in category of “ General anti infective for sys tematic use ” = Yes
• Usage of drugs in category of “ Nervous system ” = No
Most found patterns are of great interest to domain experts and verified by them . We have conducted further statistical analysis , eg the survival analysis and significance test [ 16 ] , to evaluate the statistical significance of found patterns .
The survival analysis is concerned with the modelling of ‘lifetime’ data . We estimate the survivor function S(t ) , by the probability of non admission to hospitals for Angioedema at age t , to distinguish the subgroup described by the pattern from the others . In addition , we use log rank test , a formal measure of the strength of evidence that two populations have different lifetimes . It is to detect a difference between groups when the survival curve is consistently higher for one group than another .
Figure 1 : Survival analysis charts of the first three patterns . Blue lines ( inside fillings ) indicate patient groups identified by the patterns and red lines ( inside shades ) for the other patients . Fillings and shades show confidence intervals . The groups identified by patterns have significantly higher probability of hospital admission for Angioedema than the other patients for age 50 and above .
0204060800970097509800985099009951000Survival Anlaysis of Pattern 1 ( blue one , P−value=4.2229e−09)Age of PatientProbability of No Admission for Angioedema02040608009920994099609981000Survival Anlaysis of Pattern 2 ( blue one , P−value=2.9257e−05)Age of PatientProbability of No Admission for Angioedema0204060800986099009940998Survival Anlaysis of Pattern 3 ( blue one , P−value=2.5506e−09)Age of PatientProbability of No Admission for Angioedema Figure 1 presents the estimated survivor functions of the groups identified by patterns ( within the filled blue regions ) and the other patients ( within the shaded red regions ) . Filled blue regions and the shaded red regions indicate their confidence intervals respectively . Clearly , for the age 50 and above , the groups identified by patterns have significantly higher probability of hospital admission for Angioedema than the other patients .
A pattern is statistically significant if it has a low P value . The Pvalues of the log rank test of the patterns are much lower than 001 For example , P values for the above three patterns are 4.2 × 10−9 , 2.5 × 10−5 and 2.6 × 10−9 respectively . This also suggests that the sub groups described by patterns are overwhelmingly different from the other patients .
Both statistical evaluations conclude that the proposed method is able to find statistically significant patterns from a large and skewed data sets .
In the final presentation , we show evolution of relative risk of each pattern , and some patterns that are not in the optimal risk pattern set will be rediscovered . An example for showing evolution of Pattern 1 is shown in Figure 2
Pattern 1 : RR = 3.99
Gender = Female Hospital Circulatory Flag = Yes Usage of Drugs in category “ Various ” = Yes
Sub pattern : RR = 1.82 Gender = Female Hospital Circulatory Flag = Yes
Sub pattern : RR = 1.53 Gender = Female
Figure 2 : A user interesting evolution path of Risk Pattern 1
6 . CONCLUSIONS
We have discussed a new problem of finding risk patterns in medical data . We have made use of an epidemiological metric , relative risk , in measuring interestingness of patterns and have concluded it is an optimal rule mining problem to find high risk patterns . We have studied an anti monotone property for the optimal risk pattern set , and then presented an efficient algorithm to mine optimal risk pattern sets . We applied the method to a real world medical and pharmaceutical linked data set and has revealed some patterns potentially useful in clinical practice .
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This research has been supported by the RGC Earmarked Research Grant of HKSAR CUHK 4179/01E , the Innovation and Technology Fund ( ITF ) in the HKSAR [ ITS/069/03 ] , and ARC DP0559090 .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] http://serversmedlibhscbklynedu/ebm/tochtml [ 2 ] R . Bayardo and R . Agrawal . Mining the most interesting rules . In Proceedings of the Fifth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pages 145–154 , NY , 1999 . ACM Press .
[ 3 ] G . V . Belle . Statistical rules of thumb . Wiley Interscience ,
New York , 2002 .
[ 4 ] S . E . Brossette , A . P . Sprague , J . M . Hardin , K . W . T . Jones , and S . A . Moser . Associarion rules and data mining in hospital infection control and public health surveillance . Journal of American Medical Informatics Association , pages 373 – 381 , 1998 .
[ 5 ] J . Chen , H . He , G . J . Williams , and H . Jin . Temporal sequence associations for rare events . In Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 8th Pacific Asia Conference ( PAKDD ) , pages 235–239 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] P . Clark and R . Boswell . Rule induction with CN2 : Some recent improvements . In Machine Learning EWSL 91 , pages 151–163 , 1991 .
[ 7 ] P . Clark and T . Niblett . The CN2 induction algorithm .
Machine Learning , 3(4):261–283 , 1989 .
[ 8 ] J . Laurikkala , M . Juhola1 , and E . Kentala . Informal identification of outliers in medical data . pages 20 – 24 , Berlin , 2000 .
[ 9 ] J . Li , H . Shen , and R . Topor . Mining the optimal class association rule set . Knowledge Based System , 15(7):399–405 , 2002 .
[ 10 ] J . Li and L . Wong . Using rules to analyse bio medical data : A comparison between c4.5 and pcl . In Proc . of Advances in Web Age Information Management , pages 254–265 , 2003 .
[ 11 ] M . Ohsaki , S . Kitaguchi , K . Okamoto , H . Yokoi , and
T . Yamaguchi . Evaluation of rule interestingness measures with a clinical dataset on hepatitis . In Proceedings of European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases ( PKDD ) , pages 362–373 , 2004 .
[ 12 ] M . Ohsaki , Y . Sato , H . Yokoi , and T . Yamaguchi . A rule discovery support system for sequential medical data in the case study of a chronic hepatitis dataset . In Proc of the ECML/PKDD 2003 Discovery Challenge Workshop , pages 154 – 165 , Cavtat Dubrovnik , Croatia , 2003 .
[ 13 ] J . Paetz and R . Brause . A frequent pattern tree approach for rule generation with categorical septic shock patient data . In Proc of International Symposium of Medical Data Analysis , pages 207 – 213 , 2001 .
[ 14 ] J . R . Quinlan . Induction of decision trees . Machine Learning ,
1(1):81–106 , 1986 .
[ 15 ] J . R . Quinlan . C4.5 : Programs for Machine Learning .
Morgan Kaufmann , San Mateo , CA , 1993 .
[ 16 ] S . Selvin . Epidemiologic Analysis — A Case oriented Approach . Oxford University Press , New York , 2001 . [ 17 ] P . Tan , V . Kumar , and J . Srivastava . Selecting the right objective measure for association analysis . Information Systems , 29(4):293 – 313 , 2004 .
[ 18 ] M . J . Zaki . Mining non redundant association rules . Data
Mining and Knowledge Discovery Journal , pages 223–248 , 2004 .
[ 19 ] Z . Zhou and Y . Jiang . Medical diagnosis with c4.5 rule preceded by artificial neural network ensemble . IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine , pages 37–42 , 2003 .
