Fragmented Social Media :
A Look into Selective Exposure to Political News
Jisun An
University of Cambridge
JisunAn@clcamacuk
Daniele Quercia
Yahoo! Research , Barcelona dquercia@yahoo inc.com
Jon Crowcroft
University of Cambridge
JonCrowcroft@clcamacuk
ABSTRACT The hypothesis of selective exposure assumes that people crave like minded information and eschew information that conflicts with their beliefs , and that has negative consequences on political life . Yet , despite decades of research , this hypothesis remains theoretically promising but empirically difficult to test . We look into news articles shared on Facebook and examine whether selective exposure exists or not in social media . We find a concrete evidence for a tendency that users predominantly share like minded news articles and avoid conflicting ones , and partisans are more likely to do that . Building tools to counter partisanship on social media would require the ability to identify partisan users first . We will show that those users cannot be distinguished from the average user as the two subgroups do not show any demographic difference . Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences Keywords Facebook , Social media , Online news consumption , Selective exposure , News aggregators 1 . The theory of selective exposure holds that people tend to seek out political information confirming their beliefs and avoid challenging information . Selective exposure is thought to be highly problematic as it results in segregated and polarized communities [ 9 ] . Fortunately , computer scientists have proposed different news aggregators that encourage politically diverse news consumption and try to mitigate the effect of selective exposure [ 4 , 5 ] . The problem is that we do not know whether selective exposure actually exists . Evidence in the political science literature is mixed–Stroud found consistent evidence for selective exposure across a variety of media [ 8 ] , yet , LaCour observes that people are exposed to diverse views in their everyday news consumption [ 3 ] .
INTRODUCTION
Political scientists have conducted research on selective exposure and have built a strong theoretical foundation . However , they have done so mostly on survey data ( which might be inaccurate [ 6 ] ) and partly on direct measurements of news exposure . Studying exposure , however , translates into studying news that people might not have necessarily paid attention to . In this work , we focus on news articles shared in social media , which nicely translates into studying news that people have actually paid attention to . Using data of thirty seven popular US news sites and 61,977 news articles shared by 12,495 Facebook users , we examine to what extent people share like minded news . To this end , we show a concrete evidence that selective exposure exists in political news sharing .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
2 . METHODOLOGY Facebook news consumption . We gather news consumption information from a random subset of Facebook users who have taken a personality test by installing an application called myPersonality 1 and agreed to share their test results and Facebook profiles : 228,064 Facebook users who shared 4.9M links . The demographic of these users reflects the general Facebook population in USA : their number of social contacts is between 30 and 1000 and whose age is comprised between 18 and 54 . This group is composed of 136,838 women ( 59 % ) and 91,226 men ( 41% ) . 59.6 % of users have identified their political affiliations ( liberal ( 69.9 % ) and conservative ( 301% ) ) From April to September 2010 , we gathered 61,977 articles coming from 37 news sites posted by 12,495 users : 37 % of links are successfully classified as political news articles through Alchemy API ( discussed shortly ) ; each user has posted 2.85 articles on average ; while 60 % of users have posted only one article . Only news articles about politics . To select only the articles about politics , we need to be able to classify articles into categories and select those that fall into politics . To do that , we use the Alchemy API which has been shown that it entails superior classification performance compared to other popular classifiers [ 7 ] . Given a URL , Alchemy extracts the associated text and returns featured words , the main topic , and a confidence value for the categorization . The main topic is chosen from twelve pre listed possible ones . We excluded URLs that are categorized as “ None ” ( eg , broken link ) and URLs that have low confidence values ( < 0.5 on Alchemy ’s scale of [ 0 , 1] ) , and we take the remaining ones that are classified under “ Culture/Politics ” . Determining media slant . We need to classify news outlets into liberal , conservative , or center . Since the outlets in the Facebook dataset are mainly in US , we consulted the website http://wwwleftrightus and used Gentzkow and Shapiro ’s novel classification , which relies on term similarity between political speeches and news articles [ 2 ] . Among 37 news sites we focus , fourteen media outlets were classified as right wing ( including Fox News and Politico ) , six as center ( including CNN and NewsWeek ) , and seventeen as left wing ( including Huffington Post and NPR News ) . Measuring partisanship : Net partisan skew . To measure selective exposure , in line with previous work [ 3 ] , we focus on consumption of news from partisan sources ( ie , those that are classified as either conservative or liberal ) and compute the net partisan skew as the number of conservative news minus that of liberal news ( news counts , being skewed , undergo a logarithm transformation ) : ln(#conservative news + 1 ) − ln(#liberal news + 1 ) The partisan skew reflects how balance a user ’s news diet is–for
( 1 )
1http://wwwmypersonalityorg/wiki
51 example , it is zero if the user consumes an equal amount of conservative and liberal news and it is ± 2 if , for every 6.4 ( ≈ e2 ) conservative ( liberal ) articles , the user consumes 1 liberal ( conservative ) article . We use this metric to be able to compare our result to that of previous work [ 3 ] . 3 . RESULT We will test following hypothesis : [ H1 ] News consumption in social media is not balanced but suffers from partisan sharing .
To measure the extent to which selective exposure exists , we analyze news consumption for articles coming from partisan news outlets–that is , from outlets that can be labeled as either conservative or liberal . We compute net partisan skew using expression ( 1 ) : a positive score represents users sharing news from conservative outlets , while a negative one indicates sharing from liberal outlets . Figure 1(a ) displays the distribution of net partisan skew in the form of kernel density estimates for users who posted at least 4 articles2 . The curve shows two peaks , reflecting liberal views ( left peak ) and conservative views ( smaller right peak ) , respectively . The majority of our Facebook users are liberal .
Based on self reported political affiliations on Facebook , we separate liberal users ( N=149 ) from conservative ones ( N=84 ) and compute their partisan skew ( Figure 1(b) ) . We find that all of them consume a considerable number of like minded news and systematically avoid cross cutting news . Liberal users read more liberal news outlets and are centered around a net partisan skew of 1.8 , while conservative users read more conservative news ( centered around 14 )
Then , since it has been shown that partisan sharing to political news ends up influencing news consumption on matters that are not strictly related to politics , we analyze consumption of not only political news but of any type of news . We find that , when sharing news about , say , technology , people tend to still select outlets that match their political beliefs , and liberals tend to do much more so than conservatives . in .
Next , we will try to predict their levels of partisanship . To build tools that counter partisan sharing , one would need to identify partisan users first . With rich demographic data for our Facebook users , we attempt to do that . More specifically , we consider . The following predictors : • Three Facebook variables : number of Facebook friends , number of postings , and number of likes received from their social contacts . • Three personal attributes : sex , age , and size of the city he lives • Five personality traits : for our users , we have data from the five factor model of personality , or the big five , which is the most comprehensive , reliable and useful set of personality concepts [ 1 ] . An individual is associated with five scores that correspond to the five main personality traits and that form the acronym of OCEAN . Imaginative , spontaneous , and adventurous individuals are high in Openness . Individuals who are ambitious , resourceful and persistent individuals are high in Conscientiousness . Individuals who are sociable and tend to seek excitement are high in Extraversion . Those high in Agreeableness are trusting , altruistic , tender minded , and are motivated to maintain positive relationships with others . Finally , emotionally liable and impulsive individuals are high in N euroticism . All predictors undergo a logarithmic transformation , when nec
2From our data analysis , we learn that the minimum number of articles upon which the net partisan skew can be computed is 4–below that , the resulting net skew cannot be computed with sufficient confidence .
( a )
( b )
Figure 1 : Net Partisan Skew of political news essary ( eg , when they are skewed ) and are then correlate with net partisan skew . We find that conservatives ( high in net partisan skew ) tend to be older ( r = 0.24 ) , have less likes from friends ( r = −0.13 ) , live in smaller town than liberals ( r = −0.15 ) , are more emotionally stable and less spontaneous than liberals ( rOpenness = −0.20 , rConscientiousness = −0.15 , and rNeuroticism = −021 ) All coefficient are statistically significant . Next , we study how these predictors are correlated with partisanship . To this end , we correlate them with the absolute value of net partisan skew the higher his absolute value , the more partisan a user . Out of the eleven predictors , none of them was correlated for conservatives , while only sex was correlated for liberals ( r = 0.30 ) , suggesting that liberal men than to be more partisan than liberal women . To sum up , it turns out that predicting political leaning ( where most existing research in computer science has gone into ) is far easier than predicting partisanship , which appears to be quite challenging . As a result , it might be very difficult to create tools that effectively counter partisan sharing without being able to identify partisan users . 4 . CONCLUSION This is the first study to unobtrusively measure selective exposure in the context of online news consumption . We have shown that selective exposure still exists , especially among those who are partisans , which can amplify the collective prejudices over time . Consequently , in the near future , as the current structure of online media consolidates , we might be left with a political discourse driven by echo chambers . It is important , then , to create alternative media that brings together left , right , and center . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Costa and R . Mccrae . The revised neo personality inventory
( neopi r ) . SAGE Publications , 2005 .
[ 2 ] M . Gentzkow and J . M . Shapiro . What drives media slant ? evidence from us daily newspapers . Econometrica Econometric Society , 78(1):35–71 , 2010 .
[ 3 ] M . LaCour . A balanced news diet , not selective exposure : Evidence from a direct measure of media exposure . APSA 2012 Annual Meeting Paper , 15(5):795–825 , 2012 .
[ 4 ] S . Munson and P . Resnick . Presenting diverse political opinions : How and how much , . In ACM CHI , 2010 .
[ 5 ] S . Park , S . Kang , S . Chung , and J . Song . Newscube : Delivering multiple aspects of news to mitigate media bias . In Proceedings of CHI , 2009 .
[ 6 ] M . Prior . The immensely inflated news audience : Assessing bias in self reported news exposure . Public Opinion Quarterly , 73(1):130 , 2009 .
[ 7 ] D . Quercia , H . Askham , and J . Crowcroft . Tweetlda : Supervised topic classification and link prediction in twitter . In Prof . of WebSci , 2012 .
[ 8 ] N . Stroud . Niche News . Boulder CO : Westview Press , 2011 . [ 9 ] C . Sunstein . Republiccom Princeton University Press , 2001 .
52
