Towards Automatic Assessment of the Social Media
Impact of News Content
Tom De Nies*
Wesley De Neve*†
Gerald Haesendonck*
Erik Mannens*
Fréderic Godin* Rik Van de Walle*
{tomdenies,geraldhaesendonck,fredericgodin,wesleydeneve,erikmannens,rikvandewalle}@ugentbe
Department of Electronics and Information Systems , Multimedia Lab
*Ghent University iMinds
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 bus 201 B 9050 Ledeberg Ghent , Belgium
†KAIST
Dept . of Electrical Engineering Image and Video Systems Lab
Republic of Korea
ABSTRACT In this paper , we investigate the possibilities to estimate the impact the content of a news article has on social media , and in particular on Twitter . We propose an approach that makes use of captured and temporarily stored microposts found in social media , and compares their relevance to an arbitrary news article . These results are used to derive key indicators of the social media impact of the specified content . We describe each step of our approach , provide a first implementation , and discuss the most imminent challenges and discussion points .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval —Information filtering,Relevance feedback
Keywords News ; Social Media ; Relevance ; Content Analysis ; Search and Retrieval
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In today ’s media landscape , journalists cannot ignore the impact of social media on the content they create . Social media play a large role in how a news item is disseminated , interpreted and searched [ 12 ] . Often , a news item will spread on social media even before it is published through a more traditional channel [ 7 , 8 ] . In fact , it has been shown that although only an estimated 5 % of Twitter content is news [ 15 ] , over 85 % of tweets on trending topics can be classified as headline news or persistent news [ 10 ] . Therefore , assessment of the social media impact of a news item is a valuable tool in the context of news selection , creation and strategical advertising . However , due to the vast daily throughput of data on social media , and the limitations of a number of social media APIs , such as a limit on the number of API calls per application , this is not a trivial task .
In this paper , we propose a novel method for assessing the social media impact of an arbitrary news text . To do this ,
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . we accumulate a stream of microposts for temporary storage and make it available for querying . This way , we aim to find as many microposts related to the news content as possible . Using the statistical properties of these microposts , we present information regarding the social media impact – and thus , the interestingness – of the content . This application is primarily targeted towards actors in the publishing industry , such as journalists , editors and advertisers .
The rest of the paper is structured as follows : first , we provide a brief survey of related publications and approaches found in literature in Section 2 . Next , we break the proposed approach down in three steps , and describe the requirements and rationale for each step in Section 3 . Since the approach is deliberately kept general , we also describe a first , naive implementation to provide additional clarification in Section 4 . In Section 5 , we provide a number of discussion points . Here we also list the most important challenges encountered and describe the future steps for further development and evaluation of the approach . We end this paper in Section 6 with a conclusion .
2 . RELATED WORK
The interplay between social media and news is extensively studied in literature , using very diverse methods . In [ 13 ] , social dynamics are used to predict the popularity of news content on the social news site Diggcom Whereas the approach in [ 13 ] focuses on predicting the interestingness of an article using statistical knowledge , such as the number of votes the article gets , our approach is complementary , as it considers the content of the article itself . The authors of [ 14 ] analyze the content features of quickly spreading items on Twitter . This involves identifying features for interestingness , and insights into what makes a message on Twitter worth retweeting , which is highly related to our approach . In [ 1 ] , a different use case than news is chosen , namely the predicting of box office revenues for several movies based on the related social media activity , but the principles are comparable to our application .
In [ 5 ] , several contributions related to the retrieval component of our approach are made , ie , the generation of complementary summaries of information collected across news and social media streams , and a measure to compare sentences across these media streams . Further investigation into these concepts could certainly prove useful when
871 expanding our approach beyond the first naive implementation , as described in Section 4 . The reverse problem is discussed in [ 16 ] , where the authors propose a method to select relevant content from a news stream , based on the social media information of a user .
When it comes to efficient querying , several approaches have been proposed in the research community [ 3 , 9 ] and even at Twitter itself [ 2 ] to optimize the storage and indexing of a large collection of microposts . Implementing one of these approaches – or an alternative solution – will be imperative for usage of our application in a real world scenario .
3 . PROPOSED APPROACH
Our approach is segmented into three general parts : storage and querying of the micropost data , retrieval of the relevant microposts , and presentation of the results . In Figure 1 , we show an architectural overview of our proposed system . In the next sections , we discuss the requirements and desired functions of each component , without narrowing the approach to specific social media or technologies . A more tangible description is provided in Section 4 , where an example implementation is described .
Figure 1 : An overview of the components of the proposed approach .
3.1 Micropost Storage and Querying
The first component of our approach ensures the access to the data available on the social media . For our work , we are mainly interested in the social media that incorporate the concept of microposts , such as small statements , status updates or quotes . Generally , these social media provide two types of access to their micropost data : either via a search API , or a streaming API ( or both ) . The main difference is that a search API can provide access to data backward in time , whereas a streaming API functions as a capturing tool , only providing access to data from the moment the user starts capturing . For our use case , a search API would be most suitable , since we do not know in advance what to look for . However , as this is very valuable data for various stakeholders ( eg , business analytics , advertisers , etc. ) , most social media platforms do not provide unrestricted and/or free access to their search API . Therefore , depending on whether unrestricted access to a search API is available , alternative solutions must be developed to allow temporary storage and querying of the content gathered from a streaming API . This content could be stored only for a limited timespan , as relevance of most microposts decreases over time . However , which posts to store and for how long , is an implementation choice , dependent on the use case .
In any case , an access point to the micropost data must be provided – be it through a search API or an accumulated micropost stream – to facilitate the efficient retrieval of microposts , as described in Section 32 3.2 Retrieval of Relevant Microposts
The second component handles micropost retrieval . The goal of this component is to retrieve posts relevant to an input news article . To achieve this , several techniques can be applied . In Section 2 , we list a number of these techniques . While the possibilities are immensely diverse , all solutions have one key functionality : the comparison of microposts to other types of content ( in our case : news ) . Independent of the implementation , the retrieval component must provide the following functionality :
• Allow the content of a news article to be entered as input data ;
• process this content , and compare it to the collection of microposts ;
• return a list of microposts , sorted by descending rele vance to the news article .
These returned results are then analyzed , interpreted , and presented to the user , as described in Section 33 Note that the methods and sorting criteria used for querying and ranking of the microposts are modular and interchangeable , and more optimal solutions might be available . 3.3 Interpretation & Presentation
Now that the set of microposts related to the news content is available , we must present information regarding the impact of these posts to the end user . Deciding which information to show the user , and how to derive it , is an empirical process , which will have to be evaluated during use of the approach in practice . However , we are able to discern two minimum levels of abstraction . First , it is important to derive high level indicators of the impact of the news content on the social media . Second , we also need to provide references to the original microposts , to ensure reproducibility of the derived indicators , as well as to allow the end users to draw their own conclusions , based on the data . Two key indicators that are an essential part of the majority of social media , are post endorsements and user influence . These metrics indicate whether or not a post was endorsed by a lot of people ( eg , how many time a post was retweeted , shared or liked ) , and/or whether the person who made the post was very influential ( eg , whether he/she has a lot of followers , friends or connections ) . An example of a micropost having an exceptional amount of endorsements and a high influence , is the so called “ Golden Tweet ” [ 4 ] . It was authored by Barack Obama , who has over 27.7 million followers on Twitter at the time of writing , and was retweeted 813,481 times in 2012 .
In this context , it could also be useful to make use of existing services that measure influence , such as Klout1 . Klout is specialized in measuring the influence of users of several
1http://klout.com
Capture Process Micropost Stream ( Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn , … ) Temporary Storage Retrieval API Relevant Subset of Micropost Stream Query Constructor News Content ( New York Times , The Guardian , WikiNews , … ) Result Presentation Keyword Extractor 872 social networks and could be an interesting addition to the system .
4 . NAIVE IMPLEMENTATION
Due to its novel nature , the approach proposed in Section 3 is deliberately kept general , to allow for several possible implementation methods . Each of the components has one or more features that can differ for each implementation , allowing a large number of optimizations and design decisions to be made . However , to provide a tangible example of the merits of our approach , we created a first , naive implementation .
For the first implementation , we chose the Twitter Streaming API2 as the social media API . Aside from following specific persons , keywords or hashtags , this API allows capturing 1 % of all global microposts on Twitter , which makes it particularly interesting for the first evaluation of our approach . In our case , we are mainly interested in three data fields of a micropost : the text or message , the number of retweets ( post endorsements ) and the number of followers ( user influence ) . Note that these fields could also easily be extracted from an additional social media site , such as Facebook . In that case , the post endorsements would be quantified by the number of ‘likes’ a post receives , whereas the number of friends of a user would signify the user influence . Additionally to these three fields , we also keep the id , the time of creation , and the author of the micropost .
Once the capturing process is started , we transfer all captured data to a flexible storage system , such as a database . For our implementation , we chose to store the microposts in an instance of Apache Solr3 , a database system that supports efficient indexing and querying . To ensure efficient access , indexes were created on all data fields . Additionally , we chose to implement a RESTful interface for easy access to the data . This interface allows the database to be queried using keywords and regular expressions , with several sorting options . We chose to keep the microposts stored for one week , after which they are automatically removed from the database .
To retrieve relevant microposts , we extract a number of keywords from the article , characterizing the semantics of its content . To achieve this , we employed a Named Entity Recognition ( NER ) service , more specifically AlchemyAPI4 . This service facilitates the extraction of keywords from the input news content . This service extracts Named Entities ( NEs ) from plain text , linking each entity to a URI on the web to facilitate disambiguation . Moreover , AlchemyAPI features a service specifically for the extraction of textual keywords . This Keyword Extraction API is applied to the input article . The extracted keywords are then used to form one or more queries , used to retrieve a set of relevant microposts . In our case , the database is queried using each of the extracted keywords , and the results are merged into one list . This set of microposts is then ranked using a sorting criterion giving preference to posts containing more of the extracted keywords . This way , we aim to rank the most relevant microposts among the first results in the list . If there are ties , the tied results are sorted by descending user influ
2http://devtwittercom/docs/streaming apis 3http://luceneapacheorg/solr/ 4http://wwwalchemyapicom/
Figure 2 : Example of the graphical output of the first implementation of the proposed approach . ence ( ie , followers ) , and post endorsements ( ie , retweets ) , respectively .
The next step is to calculate a global indicator of the levels of influence and endorsement of the most relevant microposts to the input news article . To do this , we consider the N highest ranked – and thus , most relevant – results of the retrieved microposts , with N a user defined number . Of these N microposts , we calculate the average number of endorsements and user influence . Finally , we show the following information to the user :
• total number of relevant microposts ; • average number of endorsements of top N microposts ; • average size of influence of top N users . Additionally , we list the keywords used for the relevance assessment , and provide a link to the list of Twitter identifiers of the relevant microposts .
To illustrate this , an example is shown in Figure 2 of the graphical output of the first proof of concept implementation . For this example , the abstract of a WikiNews article5 was used as input , of which the keywords Duncan Smith , Iain Duncan Smith , minute long tirade , axe , holiday weekend , tee shirts , Willie Black , bedroom tax , and Capitasponsored talk were extracted by AlchemyAPI and used as queries . The result shows a straightforward graph indicating the number of relevant microposts found , as well as the average number of endorsements and user influence size of the top 1000 microposts .
5 . DISCUSSION & CHALLENGES
Our first , naive implementation immediately exposed a number of important challenges of the proposed approach , which we discuss in this section . 5.1 Storage and Querying
The first of these challenges is storage . At an average of over 4 million tweets per day , the amount of space needed
5http://enwikinewsorg/wiki/Thousands take to streets protesting %27ratbag%27s Bedroom Tax?dpl id=713879
873 for data storage and indexes increases quickly . Once a critical size is reached , query speed becomes an issue as well . Queries with single or multiple keywords require a full text search over the data , which can take a lot of time . Therefore , alternative storage and query options are an important aspect to consider for future implementations . 5.2 Natural Language Processing
Apart from these architectural challenges , dealing with social media content is very different from dealing with news articles . Current natural language processing ( NLP ) tools are tailored to deal with , grammatically correct , well spelled and full sentence text . Microposts are often very short , are full of slang and abbreviations , and do not contain full sentences . Therefore , standard approaches such as NER fail . Newly developed algorithms such as TweetNLP [ 6 ] could potentially offer solution here . Additionally , we need to take multiple languages into account . For example , it should be possible to assess the impact of an English article on Japanese social media . This is one of the less explored but highly relevant challenges in this field . 5.3 Evaluation
Lastly , the question remains of how to evaluate the accuracy of this approach . Due to the highly subjective nature of the concept of social media impact , this is not a trivial task . Furthermore , the approach contains components which need to be evaluated individually as well , such as the keyword extraction , relevant micropost retrieval and mapping to levels of endorsement/influence . Here , crowdsourcing the evaluation using Human Intelligence Tasks , as applied in [ 11 ] , might be a viable solution . Additionally , the entire application must be evaluated as a tool for newsworthiness assessment by a panel of experts in the field of journalism studies .
6 . CONCLUSION
We described a novel approach for assessing the relationship between news and social media . The approach is deliberately kept general , to allow for several possible implementations , each with their own optimizations . We provided a first , naive implementation ourselves , and identified the most imminent challenges for this approach . Finally , we outlined the actions needed to tackle these challenges , and to evaluate the approach properly .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The research activities in this paper were funded by Ghent University , iMinds ( a research institute founded by the Flemish Government ) , the Institute for Promotion of Innovation by Science and Technology in Flanders ( IWT ) , the FWOFlanders , and the European Union .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Asur and B . Huberman . Predicting the future with social media . In IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology ( WI IAT ) , pages 492–499 . IEEE , 2010 .
[ 2 ] M . Busch , K . Gade , B . Larson , P . Lok , S . Luckenbill , and J . Lin . Earlybird : Real time search at twitter . In 28th International Conference on Data Engineering ( ICDE ) , pages 1360–1369 . IEEE , 2012 .
[ 3 ] C . Chen , F . Li , B . C . Ooi , and S . Wu . Ti : an efficient indexing mechanism for real time search on tweets . In Proceedings of the 2011 international conference on Management of data , pages 649–660 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 4 ] P . Dillon Scott . A year of tweets–2012 ’s most popular
& important Twitter updates http://sociableco/social media/a year of tweets2012s most popular and important twitter updates/ [ 5 ] W . Gao , P . Li , and K . Darwish . Joint topic modeling for event summarization across news and social media streams . In Proceedings of the 21st ACM international conference on Information and knowledge management , pages 1173–1182 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 6 ] K . Gimpel , N . Schneider , B . O’Connor , D . Das ,
D . Mills , J . Eisenstein , M . Heilman , D . Yogatama , J . Flanigan , and N . A . Smith . Part of speech tagging for Twitter : annotation , features , and experiments . In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies : short papers , pages 42–47 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2011 .
[ 7 ] A . Hermida . From tv to twitter : How ambient news became ambient journalism . Media/Culture Journal , 13(2 ) , 2010 .
[ 8 ] A . Hermida . Twittering the news . Journalism
Practice , 4(3):297–308 , 2010 .
[ 9 ] L . Jabeur , L . Tamine , and M . Boughanem . Uprising microblogs : A bayesian network retrieval model for tweet search . In Proceedings of the 27th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing , pages 943–948 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 10 ] H . Kwak , C . Lee , H . Park , and S . Moon . What is
Twitter , a social network or a news media ? In Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 591–600 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 11 ] M . Larson , M . Soleymani , M . Eskevich , P . Serdyukov , R . Ordelman , and G . Jones . The community and the crowd : Multimedia benchmark dataset development . MultiMedia , IEEE , 19(3):15–23 , 2012 .
[ 12 ] K . Lerman and R . Ghosh . Information contagion : An empirical study of the spread of news on digg and twitter social networks . In 4th International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , 2010 .
[ 13 ] K . Lerman and T . Hogg . Using a model of social dynamics to predict popularity of news . In Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World wide web , pages 621–630 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 14 ] N . Naveed , T . Gottron , J . Kunegis , and A . Alhadi .
Bad news travel fast : A content based analysis of interestingness on twitter . In ACM Web Science Conference 2011 , pages 1–7 , 2011 .
[ 15 ] Z . Papacharissi and M . de Fatima Oliveira . The rhythms of news storytelling on twitter : Coverage of the january 25th egyptian uprising on twitter . In Presented at the World Association for Public Opinion Research Conference , volume 312 , page 3188 , 2011 .
[ 16 ] O . Phelan , K . McCarthy , and B . Smyth . Using twitter to recommend real time topical news . In Proceedings of the third ACM conference on Recommender systems , pages 385–388 . ACM , 2009 .
874
