An Effective General Framework for Localized Content
Optimization
Yoshiyuki Inagaki
Yahoo! Labs
Sunnyvale , CA 94089 inagakiy@yahoo inc.com
Jiang Bian
Microsoft Research
Mountain View , CA 94043 jibian@microsoft.com
Yi Chang Yahoo! Labs
Sunnyvale , CA 94089 yichang@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Local search services have been gaining interests from Web users who seek the information near certain geographical locations . Particularly , those users usually want to find interesting information about what is happening nearby . In this poster , we introduce the localized content optimization problem to provide Web users with authoritative , attractive and fresh information that are really interesting to people around the certain location . To address this problem , we propose a general learning framework and develop a variety of features . Our evaluations based on the data set from a commercial localized Web service demonstrate that our framework is highly effective at providing contents that are more relevant to users’ localized information need . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval Keywords Localized content optimization , Online local service 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Localized Web services , such as Yelp ( yelp.com ) and Yahoo! Local ( betalocalyahoocom ) , have become a popular and effective paradigm for users who seek information within the certain geographical regions . Most of such services also deliver various types of information about what ’s happening near the users’ specified geographical location directly via their portals . For example , as shown in Figure 1 , the portal of Yahoo! Local presents the user with multi facets of information , such as news , events , and deals , and for each facet , the portal provides users with corresponding Web content near the users’ specified location in a timely fashion . To provide users with relevant localized contents , it is necessary to perform effective localized content optimization . Localized content optimization in fact aims at finding contents that are of precise neighborhood identification , high quality and authority , strong attractiveness to large popularity and relative freshness . Although human editors can be employed to prune low quality information and ensure the geographical and temporal constraints , such human effort is quite expensive and cannot guarantee that the selected content items are the most interesting ones to users especially when they must be chosen from a large pool of candidates . To
Figure 1 : A snapshot of Yahoo! Local page specified by the city of Sunnyvale , CA . address these challenges , in this poster , we propose a general learning framework for localized content optimization . In particular , we first develop a variety of features based on the pair of the content and the user specified location ; then , we employ the learning torank based approach to build a ranking model that automatically ranks content items according to their relevance to user ’s interests given the specific location . Our evaluations based on the data collected from a commercial localized Web service demonstrate that our framework is highly effective at optimizing localized contents and improving users’ satisfaction with the local experience . In the next section , we will introduce our learning framework in details . 2 . LOCALIZED CONTENT OPTIMIZATION
In localized Web services , there are a large amount of content items posted by many authorized and ordinary Web users everyday . These items can be of various types , such as news , events , deals , photos , videos , etc . To achieve localized content optimization for each type of contents , we take advantage of the learning to rank framework . In particular , given a user ’s specified location , our goal is to learn a ranking function for pairs of location , content item and to order the set of candidate content items according to their relevance to the user ’s interests around this location . The relevance in the localized content optimization consists of multiple aspects , such as precise neighborhood identification of the location , high quality and authority of the content item , high attractiveness and freshness of the content to a large population .
To reach effective ranking , it is crucial to extract useful features . Analogous to feature extraction in general Web search which usually derives query features , document features , and query document correlation features , we represent each pair of location , content item as a combination of location features , content item features , and location content correlation features : • Location features describe characteristics of the user specified • Content item features indicate the content ’s authority , attrac location .
Table 1 : Sample location , content item , and location content correlation features and their correlations with four aspects of the relevance .
Neighborhood identification
Content quality
Content Attractiveness
Content Freshness
Location
Content item
Location content correlation
Content publisher ’s authority score
Authority scores of the content item
Difference between the publisher ’s authority score and the average authority over items that were clicked from the area of this location Difference between the authority of the item and the average authority over items that were previously clicked from the area of this location
Distance between the user ’s location and content publisher ’s location
If user ’s location is in the same metro area as content publisher ’s location
The size of the location ’s metro area Popularity of the location ’s metro area
Average click through rate over the content item ’s semantic categories Click through rate of the content item ’s top related semantic category Similarity between the content item and clicked items from the area of this location
Content item ’s age
Novelty score of the content
Difference between the content item ’s age and the average ages of items that were clicked from the area of this location Difference between the novelty score of item and the average novelty score of items that were clicked from the area of this location . the content
Correlation between the content item ’s semantic categories and those of top clicked items from the area of this location Table 2 : Prec@1 and MAP for various ranking algorithms
Age
RankSVM
GBDT
Prec@1 0.141 0.503 0.622
Prec@3 0.118 0.477 0.513
Prec@5 MAP 0.120 0.047 0.429 0.3294 0.381 0.483 our new ranking functions on 6 cities in the US , and take 10 snapshots of news rankings under each city during three days with each of the baseline ranking and our new ranking functions . We employed local experts to manually judge the top 5 ranked items for each of ranking methods . The relevance judgment levels are defined as shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Relevance judgment levels
Level Score
High Medium Low
2
1
0
Figure 2 illustrates the NDCG values of various ranking algorithms based on the human editors’ relevance judgments . From the figure , we can find that both RankSVM and GBDT can achieve much higher performance in terms of NDCG for online editorial tests .
Figure 2 : NDCG for various ranking algorithms in online test . 4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this poster , we introduced the problem of localized content optimization and proposed a general learning framework with a variety of features for achieving this task . Our experiments over the dataset from a commercial localized Web service , demonstrated that our framework is highly effective . In future , we will investigate how to build personalized localized content optimization , and explore more features to indicate the localized relevance . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . H . Friedman . Greedy function approximation : A gradient boosting machine . Annals of Statistics , 29(5):1189–1232 , 2001 .
[ 2 ] K . Jarvelin and J . Kekalainen . Cumulated gain based evaluation of ir techniques . ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 20:422–446 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] T . Joachims . Optimizing search engines using clickthrough data . Proc . of ACM SIGKDD Conference , 2002 . tiveness , and freshness , and describe characteristics of content publisher . • Location content correlation features can identify the neighborhood relationship between the user ’s location and content publisher ’s location . They can also imply the content item ’s authority , attractiveness , and freshness by measuring the correlation between the content item and those previously rated by users from this location .
Table 1 presents sample features of each kind as well as their correlation with four aspects of the relevance . Once the features are extracted , we can apply any learning to rank algorithm to obtain the ranking function . In this poster , we explore two popular algorithms : RankSVM [ 3 ] and Gradient Boosted Decision Tree ( GBDT ) [ 1 ] . 3 . EXPERIMENTS • Dataset : We gathered user visiting logs from a commercial localized Web service , ie Yahoo! Local , during one week in October , 2011 . While our framework is applicable to any type of content item , we focused on news items in our experiments . To learn the ranking function and conduct offline evaluations based on user click logs , we sampled 742 user visiting sessions in total , each of which consists of one user specified location and top 20 news ranked by Yahoo! Local ’s default ranking . As a result , we collected 12735 location , content item pairs , and 4213 of them triggered users’ clicks while others indicate only users’ views . • Evaluation Metrics : In our experiments , we use Precision@K ( P ( K ) ) and Mean Average Precision ( MAP ) as the evaluation metrics for offline evaluations . For a given session , P ( K ) reports the average fraction of items ranked in the top K results that were clicked by the user . MAP is defined as the mean of average precisions of all sessions in the test set . These two metrics are used to measure user ’s overall satisfaction with the ranking results . For online editorial test , we employ human editors to manually judge the relevance for new ranking results . After that , we use Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) [ 2 ] to evaluate the ranking performance on real localized services . • Offline Results : To learn the ranking function , we generate the training and testing data as follows : we randomly select 600 sessions from total 742 ones as training set ; we use five fold cross validation to perform training of the ranking function on these 600 sessions ; then , we conduct testing on the remaining 142 sessions .
Table 2 reports Precision@1 and MAP values for the hold out testing set . Besides RankSVM and GBDT , we also evaluate the performance of a simple rule based method , which orders news based on their ages . The table shows that both RankSVM and GBDT can predict users’ localized interests with much higher accuracy than the simple rule based one . • Online Editorial Test : We also applied our new ranking function to the real localized Web service and tested its performance . In particular , we implemented
0123456005115225335KNDCG@K GBDTRankSVMTime
