Cross Region Collaborative Filtering for New
Point of Interest Recommendation
Ning Zheng
School of Software Tsinghua University
Beijing , China thuzhengning@gmailcom xmjin@tsinghuaeducn
Xiaoming Jin
School of Software Tsinghua University
Beijing , China
Lianghao Li
Department of Computer Science and Engineering Hong Kong University of Science and Technology lianghaoli@yahoo.com
ABSTRACT With the rapid growth of location based social networks ( LBSNs ) , Point of Interest ( POI ) recommendation is in increasingly higher demand these years . In this paper , our aim is to recommend new POIs to a user in regions where he has rarely been before . Different from the classical memorybased recommendation algorithms using user rating data to compute similarity between users or items to make recommendation , we propose a cross region collaborative filtering method based on hidden topics mined from user check in records to recommend new POIs . Experimental results on a real world LBSNs dataset show that our method consistently outperforms naive CF method .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information filtering
Keywords cross region , collaborative filtering , location based social network
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Location based social networks ( LBSNs ) , such as Foursquare , Gowalla and Facebook Places , are a kind of work that allow users to check in and share POIs with their friends . With the prevalence of location based social networks , plenty of locations are being explored rapidly . For such applications , it is crucial to accurately recommend interesting POIs to users .
Though it is believed that to a certain degree the movement and mobility patterns of human beings are full of uncertainty and variability , experiments show that people always visit locations in one or two certain regions . Figure 1 shows the users’ check ins in Queens , Brooklyn , Bronx and Manhattan Districts of New York City . The first 4,824 locations are in Queens District . The next 4,267 are in Brooklyn . The following 3,201 are in Bronx . And the last 4,654 are in Manhattan . The density of sub regions Queens , Brooklyn , Bronx and M anhattan in bottom left to upper right diagonal is much higher than the density of other regions in the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Figure 1 : User check in distribution in Queens , Brooklyn , Bronx and Manhattan districts of New York City . figure , meaning that the users tend to visit a specific district and rarely visit locations in other districts at a certain time . One of the most widely used recommendation algorithms is memory based collaborative filtering ( CF ) , which uses user rating data to compute similarity between users or items for making recommendation . However , when recommending POIs in a new region for users , memory based CF is hard to provide POI suggestions based on existing user item rating matrix , for the like minded users tend to visit the same one or two specific regions and rarely visit POIs in other regions . To tackle this problem , we propose the cross region topic based collaborative filtering ( CRTCF ) for new POIs recommendation .
2 . OUR SOLUTION
In this section , we will first introduce some definitions . Then we will discuss how to mine hidden topics from user check in records . Finally , we will present how to use the mined hidden topics to recommend new POIs to an user who rarely come to that region . 2.1 Definition
Let U , P and C respectively denote the user set , the POI set and the check in set , which keep track of check in activities in LBSNs . Let ci;j = k denote that user ui 2 U check ins at POI pj 2 P for k times . Let F denote the friend set and fi denote all friends of user ui .
In this paper , we treat different districts of a city as different regions , each of which consists of a number of POIs . Among all the regions of one city , we regard the region where user ui check ins most as the major region of that user .
0482412292169462438393451339832NYC LocationsNYC UsersManhattanBronxBrooklynQueens45 2.2 Cross Region Collaborative Filtering
As we discussed before , the classical collaborative filtering algorithms may fail to recommend accurate new POIs out of major region to users . Suppose there are two users , ui and uj , having the same major region . Though their user similarity is high , it is difficult to recommend POIs of other regions to user uj based on user ui ’s check in records , because both of them have few check ins out of their major region . On the contrary , if the two users do not have the same major region , the user similarity between them is low , which limits the effectiveness of collaborative filtering .
Although regions may different in their locations and POIs , they may share some similar check in patterns and POIs , such as restaurants , shopping malls and bars . We can regard these similar patterns in various regions as they are from the same topic of a latent space . Specifically , we mine the hidden topics from different regions and then use the mined topics as features to calculate the user similarity in classical collaborative filtering algorithm .
We mine the hidden topics from the user check in record using Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) [ 1 ] , a mixed membership model which has been successfully used to detect patterns and clusters in text . In our paper , we regard each user as a document and the set of POIs that a user has checked into as its words . Considering some users do not have many check ins , in this paper we add their friends’ check ins to extend theirs document to a certain degree , since friends tend to have similar tastes , interests and life styles . Thus by using LDA , we can group POIs which tend to occur simultaneously into the same topic and then assigns to each user a topic distribution to represent how often they check into POIs in each topic . Specifically , for user ui , we represent the topic distribution of ui as ⃗θi = fθi Kg , where K is the number of topics predefined in LDA .
2 , , θi
1 , θi
CRTCF makes recommendation of new POIs in a new region for an active user by first finding his friends who have similar topic distribution , namely similar pattern distribution and then taking a weighted combination of their checkin numbers . More formally let ui be the active user and pk be the POI of interest , which have not been visited by ui before , out of his major region . Then the predicted rating of ui to pk , ri;k can be calculated as follow :
∑
∑ j2fi cj;k fi wi;j j2fi wi;j ri;k =
( 1 ) where wi;j is the cosine similarity between topic distribution vector of θi and θj . Then we recommend the POIs which have the highest predicted rating to the user . 3 . EXPERIMENT
In this section , we used the Gowalla dataset [ 3 ] for experiments . The Gowalla data set are collected from public check in data from February 2009 to October 2010 . Our experiment focused on the POI recommendation in Queens , Brooklyn , Bronx and Manhattan Districts in New York City . There is a total number of 2,532 users , 15,192 undirected friendships and 88,464 check ins . The experiment was conducted on each user separately . For each user , we chose POIs in his major region ( district ) as training data and the remaining POIs in other regions ( districts ) as test data . Not surprisingly , a high proportion of 80.29 % of POIs is in the major region and the remaining 19.71 % is in other regions .
Figure 2 : Recall of top N recommendation for naive CF and CRTCF
And in our experiment , we only recommend POIs which is out of the major region . We adopt Recall as our evaluation criteria , which are measured by the number of hits within the top N POIs that were recommended .
To test the effectiveness of our method , we compare our method with naive CF [ 2 ] . Figure 2 shows the experiment results for Recall of top N ( N = 3 , 5 , 10 ) recommendation of naive CF and our method under various number of hidden topics . As illustrated in Figure 2 , CRTCF consistently outperforms naive CF in all experiment settings . For example , when using 100 topics , our method improves the recall of top N recommendation by 21 % . The experiment results verify the effectiveness of our method for cross region POI recommendation . 4 . CONCLUSION
In this work , we propose a novel probabilistic method to recommend new POIs to a user in regions where he/she has rarely been before . Different from the conventional recommendation algorithms which only uses user rating data to compute similarity between users or items , our method mines the shared check in patterns for users from different regions and then utilizes the shared patterns to further explore more similar user across regions . By using the proposed cross region topic based collaborative filtering method , we effectively transfer knowledge across regions to recommend for an user in a new region . The experiment results on a real world application dataset show that our method significantly improve the recommendation performance compared with the baselines . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The work was supported by National Natural Science Foun dation of China ( 60973103 , 90924003 ) . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Blei , A . Ng , and M . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . the Journal of machine Learning research , 3:993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] J . S . Breese , D . Heckerman , and C . Kadie . Empirical analysis of predictive algorithms for collaborative filtering . In Proceedings of the Fourteenth conference on Uncertainty in artificial intelligence , pages 43–52 . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc . , 1998 .
[ 3 ] E . Cho , S . A . Myers , and J . Leskovec . Friendship and mobility : user movement in location based social networks . In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 1082–1090 . ACM , 2011 .
Top 3Top 5Top 100004008012016Recall Naive CFCRTCF−30CRTCF−50CRTCF−100CRTCF−20046
