Extracting Implicit Features in Online Customer Reviews for Opinion Mining
Yu Zhang
Weixiang Zhu
Zhejiang Sci Tech University School of Information Science
Zhejiang Sci Tech University School of Information Science and Technology
Hangzhou , 310018 China yzh@zstueducn and Technology
Hangzhou , 310018 China zhwx 2008@163.com
ABSTRACT As the number of customer reviews grows very rapidly , it is essential to summarize useful opinions for buyers , sellers and producers . One key step of opinion mining is feature extraction . Most existing research focus on finding explicit features , only a few attempts have been made to extract implicit features . Nearly all existing research only concentrate on product features , few has paid attention to other features that relate to sellers , services and logistics . Therefore in this paper , we propose a novel co occurrence association based method , which aims to extract implicit features in customer reviews and provide more comprehensive and fine grained mining results .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural language processing – text analysis
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Opinion mining , implicit feature , co occurrence , association
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the fast development of e commerce , the number of customer reviews increase very rapidly . On one hand , it is very difficult for users to read all these reviews and obtain useful information . On the other hand , some customers only focus on some rather than all the features of the transactions . Therefore , it is essential to provide feature based opinion mining results to help customers make purchase decisions and help sellers and producers promote their business . One key step of opinion mining is feature extraction . Most existing research focus on finding explicit features [ 3 , 2 ] , only a few attempts have been made to extract implicit features . Liu utilizes rule mining technique to map opinion words to features , and then determines implicit features according to the mapping [ 1 ] . Su develops a mutual reinforcement approach that exploits the hidden sentiment association between product feature category and opinion word group to determine implicit features [ 6 ] . Qiu proposes a regularized topic modeling framework which extracts implicit features according to the similarity of opinion word usage patterns in different reviews [ 4 ] . Our work differs from existing research
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2013 Rio de Janeiro , Brazil ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . and the contribution is two fold : ( 1 ) we not only focus on product features , but also concentrate on many other features that relate to online transactions , such as sellers , services and logistics ; ( 2 ) we not only concentrate on the associations between feature words and opinion words , but also utilize the associations between feature words and the rest of the notional words in the clause .
2 . METHOD AND EXPERIMENT
Our method includes 4 steps , as shown below : 1 ) determine the co occurrence matrix C ; 2 ) determine the word modification matrix M ; 3 ) obtain candidate feature word set Fc ;
Step 1 : Determine the co occurrence matrix C First , we identify all the notional words in text corpus D . Then for each pair of notional words , we record their co occurrence frequency at clause level in a square matrix C .
Step 2 : Determine the modification matrix M We borrow the idea from Qiu ’s double propagation approach and propose a bilateral iterative method to determine the modification matrix M which records the modification relationship between opinion words and their corresponding feature words within the same clause [ 5 ] . The algorithm is shown below :
1 . Select several opinion words from D and constitute the seed words set O0 , O = O0 . We can use different criteria to select seed words , such as word frequency and Tf idf . 2 . For each opinion word oj ∈ O , we scan all the reviews in D and extract its corresponding feature words according to grammar rules . When a feature word fi is found , then the modification frequency between oj and fi increases by 1 and is recorded in M . If fi /∈ F ( F denotes the feature word set ) , then we add fi to F . 3 . For each feature word fi ∈ F , we scan all the reviews in D and extract its corresponding opinion words according to grammar rules . When an opinion word oj is found , then the modification frequency between oj and fi increases by 1 and is recorded in M . If oj /∈ O , then we add oj to O .
4 . When one of the two conditions is satisfied , then the iteration stops : ( 1 ) the number of newly found feature words or opinion words is less than a threshold θ ; ( 2 ) the number of modification relations is less than a threshold β ; Or else , return to 2 and continue ; 5 . After the iteration stops , if a feature word fx ∈ F has few relations , then we delete fx and the xth row of M . Similarly , if an opinion word oy ∈ O has few modification relations , then we delete oy and the yth column of M . Finally , we get matrix M .
Step 3 : Obtain candidate feature word set Fc For a review sentence R which has no explicit feature , we identify all the opinion words in R and form the set Or . Then according to M , we select all the feature words that can be modified by the opinion words in Or and constitute candidate feature word set Fc .
103 Step 4 : Extract implicit features In a review sentence , the commented features are not only related to opinion words , but also correlate with the rest notional words in the sentence . For example , “ No electricity after a few phone calls . ” There is no explicit feature in this review . When we humans read it , we can tell that it comments on the battery feature of a mobile phone . In fact , the word “ battery ” often co occurs with the words “ no electricity ” and “ telephone call ” in reviews . Figure 1 shows several example reviews both in Chinese and English . In sentence 1 to 3 , we observe that “ battery ” and “ no electricity ” coexist in one clause . Meanwhile in sentence 4 to 6 , “ battery ” and “ telephone call ” also coappear in the same clause . Therefore , we can infer the implicit feature according to the associations between candidate feature words and the rest of the notional words in the clause .
Figure 1 : Example review sentences
Given a review sentence R which has no explicit features . Suppose there are v notional words in R , denoted as set W = {w1 , w2 , . . . , wv} . If W and candidate feature word set Fc have identical elements , we remove these elements from W and let Fc still have them . That is , W− = W − ( W ∩ Fc ) . Then , we obtain a |Fc| × |W−| submatrix S from matrix C . The rows in S denote the candidate feature words in Fc while the columns denote the notional words in R .
According to S , we can obtain pairwise correlations between feature words in Fc and notional words in W− , namely the cooccurrence probability . Suppose there are nn words in D , among which word wa appears na times and word wb appears nb times . Word wa and wb co appear nc times in the same clause . Therefore , the probability when word wa appears in a clause given word wb also appears in the same clause can be calculated as follows :
P ( wa|wb ) =
P ( wawb )
P ( wb )
= nc/nn nb/nn
= nc nb
( 1 )
Then for each candidate feature words fi in Fc , we calculate its average correlations with each word in W− . After calculation , we choose the one which has the highest T ( fi ) value as the implicit feature of review R . v .
T ( fi ) =
P ( fi|wj )/v
( 2 ) j=1
We use the example review “ No electricity after a few telephone calls . ” to illustrate our method . The text corpus D used in this paper includes 30 thousand reviews on mobile phone and clothes . These reviews were obtained from Taobao . First , we start Step 1 to determine the co occurrence matrix C . Second , we determine the modification matrix M by using our bilateral iterative method . Then we identify the opinion word set : Or = { “ no electricity ” } . According to the opinion word in Or , we manage to determine candidate feature word set Fc = { “ battery ” , “ screen ” , “ mobile phone ” } . There are 2 notional words in review R , : W− = W = { “ no electricity ” , ‘‘telephone call ” } . During the bilateral iteration process , we can obtain the co occurrence frequency of candidate feature words in
Fc and notional words in W− as shown in matrixS below : no electricity telephone call fi
'
S = battery screen mobile phone
1170
79 412
3980
63
2876
The occurrence numbers of “ telephone call ” and “ no electricity ” are 10142 and 9874 respectively . For each fi ∈ Fc , we have :
+ 3980 T ( battery ) = ( 1170 9874 10142 T ( screen ) = ( 79 + 63 9874 10142 T ( mobile phone ) = ( 412 10142
)/2 = 0.2592 )/2 = 0.0071 + 2876 9874
)/2 = 0.1659
The result is that T ( battery ) > T ( mobile phone ) > T ( screen ) , therefore “ battery ” is selected as the implicit feature .
We randomly select 2000 reviews from Taobao which contain 8074 clauses . Among these clauses , there are 714 clauses which have no explicit feature words . Then , we utilize them for experiment . The reviews are from two categories : mobile phone and clothes . We ask three postgraduate students who are not our team members to determine the implicit features and use their results as evaluation standards . Table 1 shows the results . We can see that the precisions of our proposed method in both categories exceed 80 % . Our method has better performance in mobile phone category than in clothes category both for precision and recall . The reason is that the features of mobile phone are fixed and standardized , however , the features of clothes are more complicated and variable .
Table 1 : Precision and Recall mobile phone
Precision
Recall
81.34 % 79.51 % clothes 80.17 % 77.38 %
3 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we propose a novel co occurrence associationbased implicit feature extraction method . No prior knowledge nor manual tagging is needed in employing our technique . Preliminary experimental results on real life data indicate that our proposed method is effective in performing its tasks . Although we choose Chinese web reviews as examples , the proposed technique is also applicable to reviews written in other languages . We do believe that this method presents a promising path for future research on extracting implicit features from online customer reviews .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No.61100183 , and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation under Grant NoY1110477
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B . Liu , M . Hu , and J . Cheng . Opinion observer : analyzing and comparing opinions on the web . In WWW2005 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] Q . Mei and et al . Topic sentiment mixture : Modeling facets and opinions in weblogs . In WWW2007 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] A M Popescu and O . Etzioni . Extracting product features and opinions from reviews . In HLT/EMNLP 2005 , 2005 .
[ 4 ] G . Qiu and et al . Implicit product feature extraction through regularized topic modeling . In JZUS , 2011 .
[ 5 ] G . Qiu , B . Liu , J . Bu , and C . Chen . Expanding domain sentiment lexicon through double propagation . In IJCAI , 2009 .
[ 6 ] Q . Su and et al . Hidden sentiment association in chinese web opinion mining . In WWW 2008 , 2008 .
104
