Linking Inside a Video Collection What and How to
Measure ?
Robin Aly1 , Roeland JF Ordelman1,2 , Maria Eskevich3 , Gareth JF Jones3 , Shu Chen3,4
1 Human Media Interaction , University of Twente , Enschede , The Netherlands
2 Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision , The Netherlands
3 Centre for Next Generation Localisation , School of Computing , Dublin City University , Dublin 9 , Ireland
4 CLARITY , School of Electronic Engineering , Dublin City University , Dublin 9 , Ireland
ABSTRACT Although linking video to additional information sources seems to be a sensible approach to satisfy information needs of user , the perspective of users is not yet analyzed on a fundamental level in real life scenarios . However , a better understanding of the motivation of users to follow links in video , which anchors users prefer to link from within a video , and what type of link targets users are typically interested in , is important to be able to model automatic linking of audiovisual content appropriately . In this paper we report on our methodology towards eliciting user requirements with respect to video linking in the course of a broader study on user requirements in searching and a series of benchmark evaluations on searching and linking .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ Models and Principles ] : User/Machine Systems— Human factors
General Terms User study , Video linking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Automatically linking audiovisual content to other multimedia sources is a topic that has been explored in the context of various use scenarios in the past decade : as an approach towards interactive non linear access to video allowing users to generate narratives on the fly by following links in a video ( eg , [ 13 ] , [ 14 ] , [ 10] ) , as a method to improve entertainment value by enriching mono media audio content with related imagery [ 8 ] , and especially as a means to explore additional information sources while accessing content in a linear fashion [ 7 ] , [ 9 ] , or in a search scenario [ 11],[3],[16 ] . Although linking seems a sensible approach intuitively , using linked video to satisfy information needs of users is not yet analysed on a fundamental level with users in real life scenarios . Essentially , we do not know very well why users would engage into a video link scenario and what users want with respect to the choice of elements in a video that should be linked to additional sources , the so called link achors , and their link targets . Although users may be familiar with the concept of hyperlinking in general based on their experience with linking in webpages on the World Wide Web ,
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . IW3C2 , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . our exploratory experiments [ 2 ] indicate that among others due to the difference in modality , linking in video has its own peculiarities . For example , the selection of a particular video segment for anchoring –that we refer to as anchor segmentation– is based upon audiovisual cues instead of words . This implies that anchoring is more heterogeneous in video then in text and may as well result in ambiguities with respect to its boundaries and contents . A better understanding of anchor segmentation in connection with the motivation of users to follow links in video is crucial to model automatic anchor selection and link generation properly .
Assuming that users have a preconceived information need ( in a search scenario ) or an emerging one during ( linear ) access that defines the linked video scenario , the appropriatness of anchors selection and the relevance of link targets could be modelled as a function of this information need . On the other hand , it is well known that serendipity can be a strong driver for user behavior in scenarios where a user is provided with pointers to ’related’ information sources [ 6 ] . Modelling linked video in the context of serendipitous behaviour may require a completely different approach . For example , as in this case information need cannot be used as a means to limit the possible link anchors and link targets , managing the ’explosion of links’ becomes a crucial part of the video linking game . However , evidence that confirms and could elaborate our model on the role of underlying information need and serendipity in video linking scenarios is lacking .
Next to the user perspective on anchor selection , an important factor in understanding user requirements with respect to linking is the user ’s perspective on what the links exactly should entail , the link purpose . For example , in the detail on demand scenario that is often referred to in the context of video linking , links are often directed towards one or a few specific information targets , such as a Wikipedia lemma , a biography or a document providing the user with background information ( detail ) on a selected anchor in a video . In a scenario that we refer to as contextual linking however , typically a plurality of links can be related to an anchor . In this scenario , the aim is to provide a user with contextual information on an anchor . For example , whereas in a detail on demand scenario , the anchor ’Obama’ would be linked to a Wikipedia lemma , in the contextual linking scenario , the anchor would be linked to other documents that contain ’Obama’ . On a global level , this may not seem to be very helpful for a user with an information need as such an approach could easily lead to a large amount of possible relevant targets . However , when the links are established within a closed set of documents such as a video archive or a curated collection of both internal and external information sources , the links serve as a means to structure the information available across the information sources . This would allow user to navigate through the context of an anchor via a rich link structure .
In order to validate these conceptual categorizations within the video linking framework , we need to address users that can be expected to be interested in video linking and consult them in an appropriate way . Given our experiences in the exploratory study mentioned above ( [2 ] ) that indicated that users are unfamiliar with video linking and find it difficult to reflect on it on a conceptual level , we feel that interviewing users and eliciting information based on mock ups will only to a marginal extent provide us with the information we require .
Therefore , we propose to provide users with a scenario that approximates the technical context we are aiming for and at the same time minimize the degrees of freedom in the testing scenarios . To this end we are working on a series of evaluations that take the perspective of a search scenario where a particular user group has specific pre defined information needs given a closed collection of videos . We use a video search system to perform an initial search on the video collection , ask users to assess the relevance of videos and define appropriate anchors given their information need . We use systems that participate in a benchmark evaluation on searching and linking to provide the user group with automatically selected links on the basis of both anchors that were selected earlier ( known anchor condition ) and on the basis of anchors that are extracted automatically ( automatic anchoring condition ) . In a final step we ask users to assess the relevance of the links in the context of their information need . Following this approach we can convincingly categorise the requirements users have for linked video . In the remainder of this paper we describe the proposed methodology in more detail in Section 2 . Section 3 concludes this paper .
2 . REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS
Before we describe our methodology to categorize requirements for linking , we define the components of the envisaged linking system more formally . Figure 1 shows an example of a linking system . We assume an audiovisual search system where users formulate their information need as a query and receive a ranked list of video segments as an answer . After finding a relevant video segment that fits their information need , we assume the user watches it . During this process , the system presents him/her with possible link anchors . We assume that anchors can either refer to a rectangular area in the video , a temporal sequence , or to spoken words . Note that there can be different forms of visualising the anchors . For example , if a face would be an anchor it could be highlighted . Here , we envision that the visualisation of the link anchors resides outside the display area of the video . When the user activates an anchor , typically by clicking , the system presents a textual representation of one or more link targets that it believes are appropriate to the user once followed . Following links by clicking the link target representation brings the user to the targeted information need .
The questions that this paper addresses are : first , what type of anchors users require when watching a video with respect to their information need , and second , what the char acteristics of suitable link targets are . It is not the intention of this paper to provide final answers to these questions , but instead we focus on developing a methodology that will be followed by empirical validation in the future . In our previous user study [ 2 ] we found that users find it difficult to state coherent requirements when asked about an abstract technology that they have never used before . Therefore , the basic principle of our methodology is to give users the feeling that they participate in the above search and linking scenario by letting them use a state of the art video search engine .
In our study we found that the considered video collection and the characteristics of the user group are important factors . Additionally , we believe that the design , functionality , and performance of the search engine plays an important role to improve the involvement of the user in the scenario . Therefore , we first describe the choices for these basic ingredients to our study before describing the methodology to answer the above questions . The actual requirements study is then divided into two parts , which we describe separately : first , we ask users to think of information needs , search for relevant video segments in the collection and mark desired anchors , second , we present the users with suggested link targets generated by several systems and ask them which ones they find appropriate .
2.1 Test bed
We now discuss our choices of data collection , user group and search engine functionality that we will use in our requirement analysis . The video collection used for linking should at least fulfil the following requirements : the collection should be of a sufficient size to represent a real world collection that is searched with a video search system , and it should contain content that is generally interesting to the targeted user group . We use a 200h sample of archival video as a video collection1 . We generated the sample by randomly selecting videos from the archive so that it is representative for a collection that would be interesting for public use . The videos have a high resolution and are accompanied with manually generated archival metadata , electronic program guide ( epg ) information and subtitles .
Although it is clearly interesting to investigate and contrast different user groups , we focus in this study on one particular user group in order to avoid that underlying variations in use scenarios introduces noise . We choose home users as a user group as we believe that especially home users may prefer to explore collections by following links instead of entering queries . This is for example in contrast with broadcast professionals that use audiovisual search systems typically to search for reusable material and not interested in links . We employ a recruitment bureau which selected 30 users of varying age and background . To improve their intrinsic involvement , we give them a monetary compensation for their efforts .
As mentioned above , the involvement of the user also depends on the abilities of the search engine . We therefore briefly describe the capabilities of the search engine that we use . Our search engine employs several independent search services that provide confidence scores of the relevance of video segments to the current query . These confidence scores
1The data collection is provided by the BBC in the context of the AXES project : http://wwwaxes projecteu
Figure 1 : Conceptulization Linking of a segment are combined by a weighted average by which the segment is ranked . We provide the users with the following search services :
Metadata service searches the metadata of a video , acting as a prior confidence for all segments in this video .
Speech service searches the occurrences of query terms in the transcripts of video segments .
Category service searches video segments that contain visual occurrences of a category , described by the user in textual form ( the service downloads positive examples of this category from google prior to ranking the collection ) . For details please refer to [ 4 ] .
Face service searches , similarly to category service , faces whose model is generated from google images for the query text . For details of the method refer to [ 12 ] .
Similiarity service takes an example image and searches similar keyframes within the collection . For details please refer to [ 1 ] .
Similar faces service is a specialized similarity service , which searches for images containing similar faces to the ones contained in an example image . For details please refer to [ 1 ] .
The user can combine multiple services using different query terms and example images for each service . The returned confidence scores are normalized using a sigmoid function . Initially these normalized scores are equally weighted to form the final score . Upon user feedback , however , a Bayesian logistic regression function is learned to determine better weightings of the scores . 2.2 Link Anchors
We hold the first part of the study in batches of six users at a time . First , the users are given a general introduction on video search using the search engine described above . Also , the users receive an explanation on the quantity and global contents of the data collection and we give them time to explore the collection to get a general feeling of the available content . Afterwards , each user enters a text describing one or more information needs that should be satisfied by the system . Subsequently , the users are asked to search and browse the collection for video segments that are relevant to this information need and reformulate the query if needed . After a maximum of a fixed time span that will be determined during a pilot run , or after the user is convinced that additional queries will not yield additional relevant segments , we ask him/her to identify anchors in these segments . To be more concrete , for each relevant segment , we ask the user to specify the anchors that he would expect given a video segment . In order to allow the user to specify desired anchors , we allowed him/her to select rectangles inside of keyframes , spoken words , and whole segments . If the user wants a rectangle or a whole video sequence to be an anchor , we ask him/her to invent a label for this anchor segment .
After selecting the desired anchors , we gather the reasons why the user selected them . For each anchor , the user has to specify the reason for placing the anchor and an indication of what content he/she would expect if following a link behind this anchor . In particular , the user specifies whether the awaited information should provide more details on the anchor , additional information to the original information need , or whether he/she awaits serendipitous information that is unrelated to his/her original information need .
2.3 Link Targets
Given the output of the user study about possible anchors , we want to analyse requirements for the corresponding link targets . Here , a central problem is that we cannot possibly ask a user to assess all video segments in a collection and judge whether or not these are suitable targets . Instead , we could use a link generation engine to support us with suggesting possible link targets . However , using a single search engine is likely not to produce a representative set of link targets . We solve this problem by embedding the user requirement study in the MediaEval Search and Hyperlinking task 20132 , see [ 5 ] for 2012 ’s edition of the task . In particular , in the linking sub task we ask participants to provide ranked lists of possible links . Here , the task input for the participants are the anchors ( video sequences , rectangles or words in spoken text ) defined during the first part of the requirements study . Under the assumption that linking approaches are diverse ( they produce different link targets ) and that most relevant links are at least returned by one participants , we use the top ranked link targets of
2http://wwwmultimediaevalorg/
Data collection:200h BBC programsQuery formulation/ parameter learning12344Information Need:Obamaand Mrs Merkelat the World ClimateConference each participation as a pool of links that have to be assessed for suitability . Note that this methodology is similar to the assessment methodology in TRECVid [ 15 ] . For each link in the pool , we ask the user who defined the anchor to assess whether it is suitable or not . For each link the user also has to specify the purpose ( serendipitous etc ) the link would serve him/her . 2.4 User Interviews
Additionally to asking users to categorize link anchors and link targets , we also interview them after each step as to the requirement analysis . Note that during similar interviews for our previous study [ 2 ] users stated not to be able to state clear requirement . We believe that this situation will be improved now , because our users were actively involved in selected anchors and have seen link targets by current systems based on their own information needs .
3 . CONCLUSIONS
We started this paper with a discussion on the lack of information on the user perspective on video linking , specifically with respect to the motivation of users to follow links , the selection of appropriate anchors for linking and the characteristics of the link targets . We described a methodology to assess these user requirements in a video to video linking scenario . In this methodology , a real life scenario is mimicked using a realistic content set and a state of theart audiovisual search system . We focus on a specific user group ( home users ) and ask them to provide information needs , search for relevant video segments given this need , indicate which elements in the video should be marked as anchors , and to assess the relevance of automatically generated link targets that are returned by participating systems in a benchmark evaluation on search and linking . We plan to discuss the first results of this evaluation during the workshop .
Acknowledgments The work reported in this paper was funded by the EU Project AXES ( FP7 269980 ) , Science Foundation Ireland ( Grant 07/CE/I1142 ) as part of the Centre for Next Generation Localisation ( CNGL ) project at DCU ; and the Dutch national program COMMIT .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Aly , K . McGuinness , S . Chen , N . E . O’Conner ,
K . Chatfield , O . M . Parkhi , R . Arandjelovic , A . Zisserman , B . Fernando , T . Tuytelaars , D . Oneata , M . Douze , J . Revaud , D . P . J . Schwenninger , H . Wang , Z . Harchaoui , J . Verbeek , and C . Schmid . AXES at TRECVid 2012 . In TREC 2012 Video Retrieval Evaluation Online Proceedings ( TRECVid 2012 ) , Geithesburg , US , December 2012 . NIST .
[ 2 ] R . Aly , K . McGuinness , M . Kleppe , R . Ordelman , N . E . O’Connor , and F . de Jong . Link anchors in images : Is there truth ? In Proceedings of the 12th Dutch Belgian Information Retrieval Workshop ( DIR 2012 ) , pages 1–4 , Ghent , 2012 . University Ghent . [ 3 ] M . Bron , B . Huurnink , and M . de Rijke . Linking archives using document enrichment and term selection . In Proceedings of TPDL 2011 , pages 2357–2360 , 2011 .
[ 4 ] K . Chatfield and A . Zisserman . Visor : Towards on the fly large scale object category retrieval . In Asian Conference on Computer Vision , 2012 .
[ 5 ] M . Eskevich , G . J . F . Jones , M . Larson , C . Wartena , R . Aly , T . Verschoor , and R . Ordelman . Comparing retrieval effectiveness of alternative content segmentation methods for internet video search . In 10th Workshop on Content Based Multimedia Indexing , 2012 .
[ 6 ] A . Foster and N . Ford . Serendipity and information seeking : an empirical study . Journal of Documentation , 59(3):321–340 , 2003 .
[ 7 ] A . Girgensohn , L . Wilcox , F . Shipman , and S . Bly .
Designing affordances for the navigation of detail on demand hypervideo . In Proceedings of AVI 2004 , pages 290–297 . ACM , 2004 .
[ 8 ] W . F . L . Heeren , L . B . van der Werff , R . J . F .
Ordelman , A . J . van Hessen , and F . M . G . de Jong . Radio Oranje : Searching the Queen ’s speech(es ) . In C . L . A . Clarke , N . Fuhr , N . Kando , W . Kraaij , and A . P . de Vries , editors , Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGIR , Amsterdam , page 903 , New York , July 2007 . ACM .
[ 9 ] P . Hoffmann , T . Kochems , and M . Herczeg . HyLive :
Hypervideo Authoring for Live Television . In Changing Television Environments , pages 51–60 . Springer , 2008 .
[ 10 ] B . Meixner , K . Matusik , C . Grill , and H . Kosch .
Towards an easy to use authoring tool for interactive non linear video . Multimedia Tools and Applications , pages 1–26 , 2012 .
[ 11 ] J . Morang , R . J . F . Ordelman , F . M . G . de Jong , and
A . J . van Hessen . InfoLink : analysis of Dutch broadcast news and cross media browsing . In Proceedings of ICME 2005 , Los Alamitos , 2005 .
[ 12 ] O . M . Parkhi , A . Vedaldi , and A . Zisserman .
On the fly specific person retrieval . In International Workshop on Image Analysis for Multimedia Interactive Services . IEEE , 2012 .
[ 13 ] I . Sawhney , N . and Balcom , D . and Smith . Authoring and navigating video in space and time . MultiMedia , IEEE , 4(4):30–39 , 1997 .
[ 14 ] F . Shipman , A . Girgensohn , and L . Wilcox .
Authoring , viewing , and generating hypervideo : An overview of Hyper Hitchcock . ACM Trans . Multimedia Comput . Commun . Appl . , 5(2):15:1— 15:19 , 2008 .
[ 15 ] A . F . Smeaton , P . Over , and W . Kraaij . Evaluation campaigns and trecvid . In MIR ’06 : Proceedings of the 8th ACM International Workshop on Multimedia Information Retrieval , pages 321–330 , New York , NY , USA , 2006 . ACM Press .
[ 16 ] S . Tan , C W Ngo , H K Tan , and L . Pang . Cross media hyperlinking for search topic browsing . In Proceedings of the 19th ACM international conference on Multimedia , MM ’11 , pages 243–252 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
