Offering Language Based Services on Social Media by
Identifying User ’s Preferred Language(s ) from Romanized
Text
Mitesh M . Khapra IBM Research India
Bangalore
India mikhapra@inibmcom
Ananthakrishnan
Ramanathan
IBM Research India
Bangalore
India anandr42@gmail.com
Salil Joshi
IBM Research India
Bangalore
India saljoshi@inibmcom Karthik Visweswariah
IBM Research India
Bangalore
India v karthik@inibmcom
ABSTRACT With the increase of multilingual content and multilingual users on the web , it is prudent to offer personalized services and ads to users based on their language profile ( ie , the list of languages that a user is conversant with ) . Identifying the language profile of a user is often non trivial because ( i ) users often do not specify all the languages known to them while signing up for an online service ( ii ) users of many languages ( especially Indian languages ) largely use Latin/Roman script to write content in their native language . This makes it non trivial for a machine to distinguish the language of one comment from another . This situation presents an opportunity for offering following language based services for romanized content ( i ) hide romanized comments which belong to a language which is not known to the user ( ii ) translate romanized comments which belong to a language which is not known to the user ( iii ) transliterate romanized comments which belong to a language which is known to the user ( iv ) show language based ads by identifying languages known to a user based on the romanized comments that he wrote/read/liked . We first use a simple bootstrapping based semi supervised algorithm for identify the language of a romanized comment . We then apply this algorithm to all the comments written/read/liked by a user to build a language profile of the user and propose that this profile can be used to offer the services mentioned above .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Natural Language Processing ] : Text analysis
General Terms Experimentation
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Figure 1 :
Keywords Language profile , Romanized Content , Social Media
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Building user profiles based on their activities on social networking sites and microblogging websites has gained a lot of attention in the recent past[3 ] . Such profiles help in enhancing user experience by offering personalized services . This , in turn , increases a user ’s loyalty to a particular service or website . Additionally , such profiling helps service providers to generate more ad revenue by showing better targeted ads to users . In this work , we focus on a particular category of personalized services , viz . , language based services depending on the list of languages known to a user and the extent to which he uses them . One may argue that it is trivial to identify the language profile of a user based on his/her geographical location or comments/articles written/read by him . However , there are three factors which make this task non trivial . First , in multilingual countries ( eg , India ) most internet users are bilingual if not multilingual which makes it difficult to identify a user ’s language profile based on his geographical location . Second , although while registering on social networking sites users are requested to provide a list of languages known to them , it is very hard to ensure that users provide complete/correct
71 information . Third , many users write regional ( non English ) content using Latin/Roman script which makes it hard to distinguish one language from another using script based features .
In this paper , we focus on providing language based services in the presence of the third factor listed above , viz . extensive use of Latin/Roman text for writing regional ( nonEnglish ) content . To motivate a few language based services that can be offered in the presence of romanized content , we point the reader to the example in Figure 1 . The figure shows the original post by user A ( in English ) followed by two comments in two different languages ( Hindi and Marathi ) but both written using Latin/Roman script . Now , consider a user B who visits the wall of user A and speaks only Hindi and English . User B would be served better if the last comment ( in Marathi ) is hidden ( or translated to English or Hindi ) . Note that facebook does provide the option of “ Translate this post ” automatically for some languages if the post is written using the native script of that language but it does not provide this option for regional ( non English ) posts written using Latin/Roman script .
2 .
IDENTIFYING LANGUAGE OF ROMANIZED CONTENT
Identifying the language of text written using native script was considered to be a solved problem for a long time[2 ] . However , recently there has been some renewed interest in this field where [ 1 ] have shown that this task becomes challenging if ( i ) the number of languages is large , ( ii ) the length of text is small and ( iii ) there are fewer training instances . Since we are dealing with comments posted on social networking sites and have very limited training data , all of the above conditions are true for our task . In addition , we have the following challenges ( i ) comments in multiple languages are written using the same Latin/Roman script and ( ii ) comments on social networking sites are typically very noisy which makes the task even harder . We propose a simple bootstrapping based approach where we start with a small number of labeled posts and train a multi class SVM ( each language is a different class ) . We use character n grams and word n grams as features . This classifier is then used to label a large number of unlabeled posts and the posts which get labeled with a high confidence are added to the training data . This increased data is then used to re train the classifier and the above process is repeated till convergence .
3 .
IDENTIFYING USER’S LANGUAGE(S ) Once the above classifier is trained we use it to label all If any of the posts the posts that a user wrote or liked . written/liked by a user belong to language Li then Li is added to the list of languages known to that user . Further , we use a simple formula to find the extent to which a user uses a particular language : usage(Li ) = number of posts written/liked in language Li total number of posts written/liked by the user
4 . OFFERING LANGUAGE BASED SERVICES
Once the language profile of the user has been built , we can offer him/her language based services . Continuing with the example given earlier , when B visits the wall of A the following language based services can be offered to him/her : of the 2 languages ( Hindi , English ) known to him/her .
• An option to translate the first post ( in Marathi ) to one • An option to re rank the posts so that the posts written in one of the 2 languages ( Hindi , English ) known to him/her appear at the top ( sorted according to usage ) . • An option to convert the second post ( in Hindi ) to De• Show Hindi ads to the user . vanagari script for better readability .
5 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
We collected around 50 posts each in 4 languages , viz . , English , Hindi , Marathi and Bengali . We used 80 % of this data as the seed data for our bootstrapping algorithm . The remaining 20 % was used as held out validation set . In addition , we collected about 2K unlabeled romanized posts which belonged to several Indian languages . A publicly available ( http://svmlightjoachimsorg/svm multiclass.html ) multi class SVM tool was used for training our classifier . The initial classifier trained on the seed data was used to label the 2K posts and the posts labeled with high confidence were added to the training data . We repeated this process for 5 iterations . Using just the seed data we got an accuracy of 84.4 % on the validation set , whereas , after running our bootstrapping algorithm for 5 iterations we were able to achieve an accuracy of 911 %
Next , we collected posts written/liked by 100 users . We knew the actual language profile of these users since these users were known to us . We then identified the language profile of these users using our algorithm . For 72 out of the 100 users we were able to identify all the languages known to the user and no additional incorrect languages were identified . For 14 out of the 100 users we were able to identify only a subset of the languages known to the user but none of the languages identified were incorrect . Lastly , for the remaining 14 users our algorithm correctly identified all the languages known to the user but also added one or more incorrect languages to the user ’s language profile .
6 . CONCLUSION
We proposed some simple algorithms for identifying the language of romanized text and for building a language profile of users on social networking sites . Based on this information we propose to offer language based services to users .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Baldwin and M . Lui . Language identification : the long and the short of the matter . In Human Language Technologies : The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , HLT ’10 , pages 229–237 , Stroudsburg , PA , USA , 2010 . Association for Computational Linguistics .
[ 2 ] W . B . Cavnar and J . M . Trenkle . N gram based text categorization . In Proceedings of SDAIR 94 , 3rd Annual Symposium on Document Analysis and Information Retrieval , pages 161–175 , 1994 .
[ 3 ] H . Villiard and M . A . Moreno . Fitness on facebook :
Advertisements generated in response to profile content . Cyberpsychology , Behavior , and Social Networking , 2012 .
72
