Ranking Method Specialized for Content Descriptions of
Classical Music
Taku Kuribayashi Faculty of Engineering ,
Kyoto University
Kyoto , Japan
Yasuhito Asano Graduate School of
Masatoshi Yoshikawa
Graduate School of
Informatics , Kyoto University
Informatics , Kyoto University
Kyoto , Japan
Kyoto , Japan kuribayashi@dbsocikyoto asano@ikyoto uacjp yoshikawa@i.kyoto uacjp uacjp
ABSTRACT
In this paper , we propose novel ranking methods of effectively finding content descriptions of classical music compositions . In addition to rather naive methods using technical term frequency and latent Dirichlet allocation(LDA ) , we proposed a novel classification of web pages about classical music and used the characteristics of the classification for our method of search by labeled LDA(L LDA ) . The experimental results showed our method performed well at finding content descriptions of classical music compositions .
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
Keywords vertical search ; classical music ; labeled LDA
1 .
INTRODUCTION
When you listen to classical music , you can enhance your understanding of the music by reading content descriptions , especially if you are a non expert of music , such as an amateur player , because it is difficult to understand the music only from reading the score . A description of the content of classical music is defined as an objective description about the structure of the composition that technically explains specific parts of it . An example content description for Beethoven ’s 9th Symphony is “ The opening theme , played pianissimo over string tremolos , so much resembles the sound of an orchestra tuning . ” This explains the instruments ( strings ) and techniques ( pianissimo , tremolos ) .
It is difficult to find useful web pages containing content descriptions of classical music with conventional search engines ; if you search by the title of a music , then famous commercial sites such as Amazon or iTunes are highly ranked although they usually do not contain content descriptions . A possible project to help to find such useful pages is a manual collection of links to them ; there was such a project in the past [ 1 ] , while it was suspended because of the amount of work required to maintain the quality . Thus , our objective is to create a ranking that enables you to collect useful descriptions of classical music effectively .
As we surveyed the web pages found by searching with titles of classical music compositions , we discovered that those search re
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . sults have an interesting characteristic ; they can easily be classified into a small number of categories . This characteristic is suitable for applying latent Dirichlet allocation(LDA)[2 ] and its supervised version , labeled LDA(L LDA)[3 ] to the results . Jia et al . [ 4 ] applied L LDA to ranking pages related to a scientific paper . Their method automatically learns keywords assigned to several papers . On the other hand , web pages about classical music are rarely annotated with tags or keywords . Therefore , L LDA cannot be applied to ranking classical music pages without a proper classification .
In this paper , we propose four methods of re ranking the web search result , the first two of which are rather naive and the latter two utilize the characteristic explained above : ( 1)Technical Term Frequency based Ranking(TTFR ) , ( 2)LDA based Ranking(LR ) , ( 3)LLDA based Ranking exploiting our classification specialized for web pages about Classical music(LLRC ) , and ( 4)LLRC with our additional training data constructed from Wikipedia(LLRCW ) . The utilized characteristic would be common in search results for traditional cultures such as impressionism paintings and porcelain of the Song Dynasty . Therefore , our idea might be applied to finding useful pages about such cultures .
2 . NAIVE METHODS
Two of the methods we propose are rather naive . The first one , TTFR , is based on the hypothesis that good content descriptions contain more technical terms . In TTFR , web pages with higher ratio of technical terms to total number of words in the page are ranked higher . The list of technical terms was created based on “ Glossary of musical terminology ” and “ List of musical instruments ” of Wikipedia .
The second one , LR , is based on a hypothesis that pages with good descriptions use similar vocabulary . We select a latent topic corresponding to content descriptions manually from the result of applying LDA to Wikipedia pages of “ Symphonies ” category . LR ranks pages using the probability of each page belonging to the selected topic . Based on previous researches[5 ] and preliminary experiments we set the number of topics K as 10 , and for the Dirichlet parameters , we used α = 50/K and β = 01
3 . L LDA BASED RANKING
3.1 Classification for Classical Music
We examined 1540 pages from web search by classical music titles and discovered that they can generally be classified into eight categories . From the observation , we propose a novel way of classification of descriptions on web pages about classical music , which is as follows : ( Each page can have more than one label . ) Structure : Descriptions of the content and structure of a specific part of
141 Coriolan begins with a growl and a bark — the growl a fortissimomarked unison C played by all the strings , the bark ( a shout , actually ) — a sharply punctuated and staccato marked fortissimo F/C/A flat chord played by all of the instruments together .
Figure 2 : An image of an imaginary application page is similar to those of Wikipedia , which enabled LLRCW to perform well .
5 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we presented methods of effectively acquiring content descriptions of classical music . Our methods , especially LLRCW , improved the NDCG compared to the original Google ranking .
One possible application of our research would be an automatic association system of music(video ) and content description system , as shown in Fig 2 , using other researches on music analysis , such as [ 6 ] . It would be an innovative system to support people who are unfamiliar with classical music enjoy performances more .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Y . Fineman . DW3 Classical Music Resources : Managing
Mozart on the Web . Libraries and the Academy , 1(4):383–389 , 2001 .
[ 2 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I Jordan . Latent Dirichlet
Allocation . JMLR , 3:993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] D . Ramage , D . Hall , R . Nallapati , and C . D Manning . Labeled
LDA : A supervised topic model for credit attribution in multi labeled corpora . In EMNLP 2009 , Volume 1 , pages 248–256 , 2009 .
[ 4 ] H . Jia and X . Liu . Scientific Referential Metadata Creation with Information Retrieval and Labeled Topic Modeling . In iConference 2013 , pages 274–288 , 2013 .
[ 5 ] T . L . Griffiths and M . Steyvers . Finding scientific topics .
PNAS , 101(Suppl 1):5228–5235 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] A . Maezawa , M . Goto , and H . G . Okuno .
Query By Conducting : An interface to retrieve classical music interpretations by real time tempo input . In ISMIR 2010 , pages 477–482 , 2010 . d o h t e M h c a E f o G C D N
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
Google
TTFR
LR
LLRC
LLRCW
( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
( 4 )
( 5 )
( 6 )
( 7 )
( 8 )
( 9 )
( 10 )
Composition ID
Figure 1 : NDCG of our proposed methods and Google ranking a composition using objective expressions , such as names of instruments . ( 104 pages ) Background : Descriptions of the background of the composition , such as descriptions of the composer and the motive of the composition . ( 180 pages ) Commentary : Commentary or evaluation of the composition or a performance of the composition . ( 169 pages ) Score : Web pages of sales and downloads of the sheet music . ( 98 pages ) Cdmp3 : Web pages of CD or mp3 sales , and web pages with only CD track information or videos . ( 459 pages ) Noneng : Web pages in languages other than English . ( 159 pages ) Dictionary : Web pages of dictionary or encyclopedia articles , only having a simple description . ( 90 pages ) Irrelevant : Web pages that do not fit into the labels above . ( 474 pages )
3.2 LLRC and LLRCW
For our proposed method of LLRC , we used the 1540 pages we explained in the previous section as the training data of L LDA . Then , we used the distribution of “ structure ” label as the score of web pages . Based on preliminary experiments , the Dirichlet parameters were set as α = 50/K ( K = the number of labels ) and β = 01
There were only 104 pages labeled “ structure ” in the 1540 pages we used for the method above . LLRCW increases the amount of training data by adding 190 sections of Wikipedia which have high probability , at least 0.3 , to belong to the topic used in LR .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
For the experimental evaluation , we listed 10 classical music compositions , and collected top 50 web pages by searching with the title using Google web search for each of them . We eliminated YouTube pages from the list beforehand , because they rarely contain information we aim to obtain .
For each page , we assigned a score on the scale of 0 3 , based on how much it contains content descriptions , and we compared the NDCG(Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ) of the reranking methods we proposed .
Figure 1 shows that LLRC and LLRCW improved the NDCG in all of the compositions , and LLRCW showed the best performance on the average , considerably better than naive methods of TTFR and LR .
For example , a good page1 ranked relatively low(22nd ) by Google but 1st by LLRCW includes descriptions such as “ The final section , Nachtwandlerlied , makes subtle use of tonal and thematic cues , ” which explains the composition in detail . The structure of the web
1http://whitgunnfreeserverscom/Davemusic/S/strauss richard/ also sprach zarathustra.html
142
