Towards Real time Collaborative Filtering for Big Fast Data
Ernesto Diaz Aviles , Wolfgang Nejdl
L3S Research Center
University of Hannover , Germany
{diaz , nejdl}@L3S.de
Lucas Drumond , Lars Schmidt Thieme Information Systems and Machine Learning Lab
University of Hildesheim , Germany
{ldrumond , schmidt thieme}@ISMLL.de
ABSTRACT The Web of people is highly dynamic and the life experiences between our on line and “ real world ” interactions are increasingly interconnected . For example , users engaged in the Social Web more and more rely upon continuous social streams for real time access to information and fresh knowledge about current affairs . However , given the deluge of data items , it is a challenge for individuals to find relevant and appropriately ranked information at the right time . Having Twitter as test bed , we tackle this information overload problem by following an online collaborative approach . That is , we go beyond the general perspective of information finding in Twitter , that asks : “ What is happening right now ? ” , towards an individual user perspective , and ask : “ What is interesting to me right now within the social media stream ? ” . In this paper , we review our recently proposed online collaborative filtering algorithms and outline potential research directions .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval]—Information Filtering General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement Keywords : Collaborative Filtering ; Online Ranking ; Twitter
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The collective effervescence of social media production has been enjoying a great deal of success in recent years . The hundred of millions of users who are actively participating in the Social Web are exposed to ever growing amounts of information . The main problem in social streams is not the actual access to the content ( eg , Twitter or YouTube ) , but rather to transform this huge mass of data into useful insight . Effective recommender systems techniques , eg , Collaborative Filtering ( CF ) , are key elements in this context . One of CF ’s most successful techniques is low dimensional linear factor models , which assume user preferences can be modeled by only a small number of latent factors [ 4 ] . The training procedure of latent factor models is performed in a batch mode , that is , they assume that all training examples are available before the learning task begins . This means that batch approaches need to be often retrained to cope with the changes in the data over time , which make batch models unsuitable for some real world scenarios where the training instances arrive sequentially and at high speed , as in the case of social web stream applications .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Our work deals with a more realistic scenario where observations come from a stream with a high temporal dynamics . One solution to this problem is to resort to online learning methods . In the presence of a continuous stream of incoming tweets , arriving at a high rate , our objective is to process the incoming data in bounded space and time , and recommend a short list of interesting topics that meet users’ individual taste .
The high rate makes it harder to : ( i ) capture the information transmitted ; ( ii ) compute sophisticated models on large pieces of the input ; and ( iii ) store the amount of input data , which we consider significantly larger than the memory available to the algorithm .
This problem setting fits a streaming model of computation by Muthukrishnan [ 5 ] , which establishes that by imposing a space restriction on algorithms that process streaming data , we may not be able to store all the data we see . The impact is that the data generated in real time carries highdimensional information which is difficult to process .
For instance , consider the scenario where topics of interest are captured by the hash tagging behavior in Twitter . Hashtags are words or phrases prefixed with the symbol # , eg , #eurovision , a form of metadata tag used to mark keywords or topics in a tweet . Hashtags were created by Twitter users as a way to categorize messages , the practice is now a Twitter standard . Any user can categorize or follow topics with the hashtags service . Hashtags evolve over time , reflecting the dynamics of user preferences in the social stream . Our approach seeks to incorporate these dynamics to produce a short list of interesting recommendations based on a matrix factorization model for CF , which is learned online .
In the next section , we give an overview of our approach for online CF . 2 . ONLINE COLLABORATIVE FILTERING Recently , we proposed an approach for online CF in the presence of large stream data . Experiments on the 476 million Twitter tweets dataset [ 6 ] show that our online approach outperforms recommendations based on Twitter ’s global trend , and it is also able to deliver a recommendation quality at the level of state of the art matrix factorization techniques for Collaborative Filtering , such as Weighted Regularized Matrix Factorization ( WRMF ) [ 3 ] , much faster and more space efficient . Our approach features two important contributions :
Online Personalized Ranking based on Matrix Factorization . In [ 1 ] , we introduce RMFO , a method that creates , in real time , user specific rankings for a set of tweets ,
779 based on individual preferences that are inferred from the user ’s past system interactions . Our novel framework for online collaborative filtering is based on a pairwise ranking approach for matrix factorization in the presence of streaming data .
Selective Model Updates for Collaborative Filtering . In [ 2 ] , we present RMFX , a novel approach that follows a selective sampling strategy to perform online model updates based on active learning principles that closely simulates the task of identifying relevant items from a pool of mostly uninteresting ones . The novelty of this approach lies in a selective sampling strategy to update the model based on personalized small buffers . Our empirical study showed that models updated using the selective sampling approach , significantly outperform online methods that use random samples of the data .
Our methods receive instances from a microblog stream , and update a matrix factorization model following a pairwise learning to rank approach for dyadic data . At the core of RMFO and RMFX is stochastic gradient descent which makes our algorithms easy to implement and efficiently scalable to large scale datasets . From the RMFO ’s variants explored in our work , we found that the one using reservoir sampling technique performed the best .
RMFX represents a novel principled approach for online learning from streams . It builds upon the ideas of RMFO and extends them to consider a strategy that selects a subsample of the observed data , based on the objective function gradients , and uses this information to guide the matrix factorization .
We observe that RMFO is simpler to implement , since it does not require a selective model update as RMFX , but RMFO requires more iterations over the reservoir to achieve a competitive recommendation performance , when compared to batch models . We found that RMFX , using a single pass over the interactions captured in the reservoir , achieves a better performance than RMFO with a single iteration ( eg , epoch ) . The selection of which approach to use depends on the concrete application scenario . For example , if the time spent by RMFO while learning the model using several iterations does not impact the timeliness of the information recommended , then its ease of implementation can be a strength . On the other hand , when timeliness is compromised , then RMFX becomes a better option . 3 . FUTURE DIRECTIONS
There are several potential future directions we want to explore , particularly related to information filtering in the presence of highly dynamic data . • Better Learning Algorithms for Online Collaborative Filtering . The success of collaborative filtering heavily relies upon the ability to translate the observed behavior to a meaningful cost function . We strongly believe that the Top N recommendation task needs to be treated as a ranking problem as discussed in [ 1 , 2 ] . The exploration of directly optimizing information retrieval metrics for personalized ranking has started and may significantly improve recommendation performance .
• Prediction of Individual and Collective Behavior in Real Time Context . Modeling complex nonlinear dynamics and high dimensional data , such as social media streams , is an active area of research in machine learning and recommender systems . Many of the existing models , such as matrix factorization and neighborhood based algorithms have been widely used in practice . However , these models are limited in the types of structure they can model . What other methods could potentially capture nonlinear dynamics and also make multimodal predictions handling missing inputs ?
• Real Time Experimentation . How to conduct experimental evaluations at large scale in real time networked settings involving users and their group interactions ? A/B testing is a common practice in the industry to evaluate new project features and to support decision making processes , but such evaluations are expensive and time consuming . The exploration of new approaches that align long term goals with the objective functions optimized by the learning models is an interesting research direction . • Integrating Heterogeneous Information Sources . To improve recommendation quality , one can exploit a number of different information sources like the friendship graph , user demographic information and smartphone sensor data . Various approaches to incorporate specific types of side information exist . However , a general and principled framework that integrates different sources of side information is still missing .
4 . CONCLUSION
Our research on online collaborative filtering for social media streams provides an example of integrating large scale recommender systems with the real time nature of Twitter . We outlined RMFO and RMFX , approaches for recommending topics to users in presence of streaming data . Our online setting for collaborative filtering captures : “ what is interesting to me right now within the social media stream ” , going beyond existing one size fits all solutions .
We have presented several potential research directions , which we believe could lead us to better support users to conduct reliable assessments of dynamics topics on the Web , such as : views on political developments , economic events and crises , as well as pandemics or natural catastrophes .
Acknowledgments . Lucas Drumond is sponsored by a scholarship from CNPq , a Brazilian government institution for scientific development .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Diaz Aviles , L . Drumond , Z . Gantner ,
L . Schmidt Thieme , and W . Nejdl . What Is Happening Right Now That Interests Me ? Online Topic Discovery And Recommendation In Twitter . CIKM ’12 , 2012 .
[ 2 ] E . Diaz Aviles , L . Drumond , L . Schmidt Thieme , and W . Nejdl . Real time Top N Recommendation In Social Streams . RecSys ’12 , 2012 .
[ 3 ] Y . Hu , Y . Koren , and C . Volinsky . Collaborative Filtering for Implicit Feedback Datasets . ICDM’08 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Y . Koren , R . Bell , and C . Volinsky . Matrix Factorization Techniques For Recommender Systems . Computer , 2009 .
[ 5 ] S . Muthukrishnan . Data Streams : Algorithms And
Applications . Now Publishers , 2005 .
[ 6 ] J . Yang and J . Leskovec . Patterns of Temporal Variation In
Online Media . WSDM’11 , 2011 .
780
