How to Hack into Facebook without being a Hacker
Tarun Parwani Rutgers University tarunparwani@rutgersedu
Ramin Kholoussi Rutgers University rk496@rutgers.edu
Panagiotis Karras Rutgers University karras@businessrutgersedu
ABSTRACT The proliferation of online social networking services has aroused privacy concerns among the general public . The focus of such concerns has typically revolved around providing explicit privacy guarantees to users and letting users take control of the privacy threatening aspects of their online behavior , so as to ensure that private personal information and materials are not made available to other parties and not used for unintended purposes without the user ’s consent . As such protective features are usually opt in , users have to explicitly opt in for them in order to avoid compromising their privacy . Besides , third party applications may acquire a user ’s personal information , but only after they have been granted consent by the user . If we also consider potential network security attacks that intercept or misdirect a user ’s online communication , it would appear that the discussion of user vulnerability has accurately delimited the ways in which a user may be exposed to privacy threats .
In this paper , we expose and discuss a previously unconsidered avenue by which a user ’s privacy can be gravely exposed . Using this exploit , we were able to gain complete access to some popular online social network accounts without using any conventional method like phishing , brute force , or trojans . Our attack merely involves a legitimate exploitation of the vulnerability created by the existence of obsolete webbased email addresses . We present the results of an experimental study on the spread that such an attack can reach , and the ethical dilemmas we faced in the process . Last , we outline our suggestions for defense mechanisms that can be employed to enhance online security and thwart the kind of attacks that we expose .
Categories and Subject Descriptors K40 [ COMPUTERS AND SOCIETY ] : General ; K41 [ COMPUTERS AND SOCIETY ] : Public Policy Issues— Privacy
Keywords Online social networking ; Facebook ; Phishing ; Brute Force ; Identity ; Media
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online social networks such as Orkut , Facebook , MySpace , etc . have gained immense popularity over the recent years . While facilitating communication and interaction among their users , these networking platforms have also raised increasing security and privacy concerns , as malicious users , attackers , or hackers have been attempting to compromise the confidentiality of users’ private information and to gain access to other people ’s accounts in an illegitimate fashion .
For instance , LinkedIn , a popular social networking site for professionals , recently came under attack by Russia based hackers who publicized the passwords of more than 6.5 million users’ accounts [ 2 ] . Another related incident occurred in February 2013 when Twitter , a popular micro blogging service , was attacked , compromising the personal information of more than 250,000 users [ 4 ] and exposing the vulnerability of all its users .
As of December 2012 , there are more than 1 billion monthly active Facebook users [ 1 ] , which roughly equals one seventh of the entire human population on our planet . Along with the growth in the number of active users , which has been following an exponential pattern , the size of personal data stored on remote servers is also growing . The immense popularity of such services arises from the fact that it offers an convenient , easy , and reliable manner to maintain contact with friends , relatives , and co workers , and even reestablish contact with long lost former classmates , neighbors , and other associates . People who sign up for these services trust the system with their personal information . While public awareness of privacy concerns and vulnerability has been recently growing , many users remain incognizant of the potential for their personal information to be used or compromised by malicious attackers , and , in some cases , the service providers themselves . Academic research has devoted significant efforts in delineating the ways in which users’ information can be shared , published , and used in a privacy preserving manner [ 7 , 6 ] and to what extent an attacker can exploit bogus accounts in order to gain information [ 5 , 8 ] . Nevertheless , there has not been a sufficient investigation of the several ways by which malicious adversaries may gain access to other people ’s accounts .
Online social networking platforms such as Facebook have vulnerabilities , which users should be protected against without compromising the usability of the system . Due to such vulnerabilities , there have been numerous hacking attempts in the past on the website itself , and more such attempts are expected to occur in the future ; social networking services
751 constitute a target of malicious users and hackers who are sometimes merely attracted by the mere existence of such vulnerabilities itself . Motivated by this state of affairs , in this paper we study the weaknesses of prevalent social networking services and assess the extent to which they are vulnerable to such online attacks . We decided to focus on the security aspects of Facebook , due to the overwhelming popularity of this particular platform . In the course of our study , we eventually identified a security exploit , which , surprisingly , allows an adversary to gain complete control over a user ’s Facebook account evenwithout entering into hacking activities per se . This identified threat is not limited to Facebook only ; the same concept can be applied to any online web service which fulfills certain criteria .
Our exploit is not designed with the intention to target any specific user . Instead , we search for , and exploit the vulnerability of , users who used to possess a web based email account , which they used in order to sign up when creating their personal account on Facebook in the first place , yet those email accounts have in the meantime expired according to the expiration rules of the web based service that provided them . This expiration is due to the fact that certain webbased email providers configure the accounts they provide to expire after a certain period of inactivity . Besides , some users may decide to delete their own email accounts without realizing the security threats that this action entails . Such threats arise from the fact that the same web based email services allow any other willing user to reactivate and use the same email address which had previously expired , when they sign up . In our study , we found ourselves able to reactivate , and thereby gain control of , such email address accounts ; thereafter , using the default password recovery mechanism provided by Facebook , we were also able , in consequence , to gain complete control over Facebook users’ private accounts . In effect , the exploit we have identified carries the potential to affect many users with complete loss of control over the personal information .
2 . THE ATTACK EXPERIMENT
We started out our study of the Facebook system ’s security using conventional hacking mechanisms like brute force . We also tried certain social engineering methods such as phishing , so as to see whether people may still fall into these traps . Nevertheless , in the process , we realized the possibility for a remarkably simple exploit which can give us access to a user ’s complete account and deny access to the same account to that user herself . The potential victims of this exploit are users who have originally created their Facebook accounts using an email address which in the meantime expired due to inactivity .
The exploit arises from the fact that , in order to set up a Facebook account , users are required to provide an email address . While some people opt to use their primary email address to open up an account , others use their least used or rarely used email address . In the case of the latter , the email provider can apply a policy by which email accounts expire after a period of inactivity ; examples of such service providers are web based email services such as Hotmail ; in such cases , the user ’s expired email , and , thereby , their Facebook account as well , are up for grabs . In particular , once an email account has expired due to inactivity , the inactivated email address returns to the pool of available addresses ; anyone can then legitimately claim such an address when they set up their own web based email account . As a result , by means of a very simple process of email account reactivation , an email address that has previously belonged to another person can be rendered ours .
The process we have outlined raises a question : How can we detect email accounts that have expired . To facilitate and automate this process , we developed a shell script which checks the MX records on the mail server of any email provider and sends a test email so as to check whether the email is received or not . A failure to deliver the test mail suggests that the email account does not exist on the mail server . The only downside to this approach is that the email address of an individual has to be known and tested manually by the script . Several email providers , such as , in our case , Hotmail , provide an even easier option to find not only one , but a group of expired email accounts . Windows Live Messenger , an instant messaging service provided by Microsoft , allows anyone to import their friends list from Facebook . The records in this imported list are categorized into two groups :
1 . People who are currently on Windows Live .
2 . People who are not currently on Windows Live .
Membership in the first category signifies that the person in question has already signed up for the Windows Live service ; besides , people having a Hotmail accounts are automatically signed up for Windows live . On the other hand , membership in the second category denotes that the person in question does not currently hold an active Windows Live account . Then , in case that person ’s email is Hotmail email address , we can safely conclude that this email address has expired . We can then proceed to reactivate it ourselves .
Once we have acquired control of a previously expired email address , which had once been used to open up a Facebook account , we can visit Facebook on the web and claim to be the user in question and have forgotten our password . Facebook then promptly sends an email to our reactivated Hotmail email address , which contains a code that allows us to reset the password for the Facebook account in question . All we need to do us copy the submitted code to a designated field on the Facebook site . Once we have done so , we are asked to set a new password . Then the Facebook account in question is all ours , as we are now acting as the legitimate owners of that account . Besides , this process can go on ; we can repeat it for every new account that can fall prey to our attack method . Besides , by gaining access to more Facebook accounts , we can automatize the process even further . We can get the friends list of the account that we enter into and figure out which of those friends have expired Hotmail accounts of their turn . Thus , they fall prey to our attack as well . This process can go on in a chain reaction , branchingout manner , accumulating more and more accounts that we gain access to and deprive the original holders thereof from access to them in the process . The process resembles building a tree iteratively ; at each iteration , the tree leaves are the friends of users compromised in the previous iteration ; those leaves that can fall prey to our attack are “ opened up ” and generate children nodes in the next iteration . This process would only encounter a dead end when it reaches a point where there are no more vulnerable leaf nodes . We originally speculated that such a state of affairs might be encountered in practice , as users using Facebook accounts
752 with an expired email address might be limited in number and sparsely distributed . However , as we found out in our experiment , such a state of affairs was never reached : We could always detect new accounts that could be compromised at each iteration . We only stopped when we decided to do so on ethical grounds . We found this result to be quite alarming . chances are that 3 of those friends are vulnerable to our exploit . Figure 2 shows the declared locations of the 15 users who accounts we compromised on a world map , using drawing pins . Remarkably , just with a small set of 15 compromised accounts are attack was able to reach world scale .
3 . RESULTS
We visualize the results of our attack experiment by a tree ; the internal nodes of the tree correspond to compromised accounts that we have entered into , starting out from an account of ours we originally had access to as the root ; the leaves correspond to accounts that were reached as friends and were not compromised , either because they were not vulnerable or because we decided not to pursue the exploit further . We follow a depth first approach in building the tree , in order to illustrate the fact that out attack can proceed unimpeded across multiple levels at several iterations . Our experiment began with a user having around 760 friends out of which 4 were susceptible to this exploit . In this manner , we were able to gain access to a total of fifteen accounts across six tree levels ; the corresponding tree is visualized in Figure 1 . While we gained full access to the compromised accounts , we did not manipulate any of their contents . Thereafter , we decided to terminate our exploit as we had already achieved our illustrative proof of concept purpose . Pursuing the attack further would merely create problems to more compromised users and raise ethical dilemmas and concerns for us , not to mention potential legal problems . Still , the last node in out attack had more than 2000 friends , 23 of which were vulnerable to our attack . Thus , we saw a significant potential for our attack to be carried along across more iterations . In Figure 1 , aij|k denotes the node on the ith level of the tree , j refers to the numbering of nodes on that level , and k refers to the number of vulnerable children nodes which are friends for the parent node . We further use the following notations : NSU denotes a Non Susceptible User , DNP indicates a path that we Did Not Pursue any further , while CN indicates the Current Node with 23 susceptible friends , at which we decided to discontinue the attack .
Figure 1 : Tree depicting compromised accounts
Overall , we found that up to 2 % of a user ’s friends were generally susceptible to our exploit , with the average value being close to 1 % . Thus , for a user with 300 friends , the
Figure 2 : World map with users location
4 . DEFENSE MECHANISM
Arguably , Facebook is not the only party to be blamed for the possibility of this exploit . A big portion of the fault lies within Hotmail and its policies . Hotmail is free to set its own rules and policies regarding the expiration of its users’ email accounts after a certain period of inactivity . However , such expiration should not lead to a privacy threat for the people concerned by rendering a profile they have created on a social networking website vulnerable to an attack . In short , the problem arises from the fact that the privacy of a user ’s online social network account rests on the privacy of one ’s email account . Once the user loses the one , they can lose the other as well .
Facebook can protect users from this exploit . The best method , in our view , would be to eradicate the dependency between Facebook and other service providers , in this case email providers . It is true that resetting a password by means of an activation code sent to the user ’s email is an old and widespread password resetting method . However , the policies of certain email providers render this method problematic . Facebook can easily generate its own self contained procedure for password reset that would not rely on thirdparty dependencies . For example , a method similar to the one used for determining who is tagged in an image could be used . By this procedure , Facebook could present the users with images of different friends they have and ask them to name those present . Yet this method would have its own limitations as some people have thousands of friends out of which they might forget some . Another possibility would be to use an SMS service in combination with the email address procedure . Besides , like several other web based services do , there could be a security question that would be asked of users who claim to have forgotten their passwords .
753 Last , as the information stored and shared on Facebook is personal , users themselves should pay more attention to which email addresses they use for identification purposes when they create an account , and maintain those email accounts carefully thereafter . In particular , a user should pay special attention when using an email address provided by an organization having a policy of email account expiration .
5 . LIMITATIONS
While our exploit can potentially be quite dangerous , it has its own limitations as well . By our method , an attacker cannot target any specific user . As discussed earlier , only certain users who are vulnerable to this attack can have their accounts compromised . This limitation withholds the choice of whom to pursue from the attacker . Besides , an attack has to be initiated from the attacker ’s friend list . The attacker has to import her Facebook friend list in her Hotmail account . Once imported , she can follow the leads and repeat this process for the people who are vulnerable to this attack . Thus , only Hotmail and Windows Live users are currently susceptible to this type of attack . Once their Hotmail account becomes inactive , it expires and allows others to claim the email address . To our knowledge , no other popular email account provider currently lets an account expire if not accessed regularly .
The attack we have carried out raises legal and ethical questions . As our intention was only to prove the potential of this exploit rather than maliciously use other people‘s private information , we stopped our pursuit once we attested that we had accumulated sufficient evidence of its practicability . Certainly , techniques such as IP spoofing , using a proxy server , or using a public workstation could significantly reduce the risk of tracing the attack back to its origin . Yet our focus was on illustrating the process rather than taking protective measures and launching a large scale attack as a hacker would do .
6 . LEGAL AND ETHICAL ISSUES
In our exploit , we have been gaining access into accounts and thereby to the friends lists therein . Those friends would later become our next target nodes . Initially , we were thrilled to find out how conveniently we could gain access to other people ’s accounts . We speculated following the footsteps of Ron Bowes , an information security consultant who collected and published the public data of 100 million Facebook users in 2010 . If we had done something similar , it would have shown that very little privacy to talk about is afforded to Facebook users .
Nevertheless , after some careful consideration of the ethical dimensions involved , we decided to settle with only showcasing the possibility of this attack in this paper . Therefore , we stopped our exploration after successfully gaining access to 15 accounts , which we thought sufficed to prove our point . We neither collected nor published any of the personal data we could access . Furthermore we did not change any other recovery settings . Thus , the compromised users could regain access to the account by using their cellphone number or answering their security question . These settings were not modified in any way or form . Indeed , we found out that , after a few days , some of the exploited users had gained back their accounts using these recovery mechanisms . We could have gathered private data hiding behind multiple proxies or secure sockets ; we did not do so as we considered how we would have felt if somebody had publicized our private lives to a wide audience , and decided to follow the ethical maxim that we should treat others as we would like to be treated ourselves .
7 . CONCLUSION
The growing popularity of Facebook has made it a common target for hackers and attackers . Although such attempts are usually hindered by the high security features of the Facebook system , those that do make their way through can pose a substantial threat to users’ online privacy . For research purposes , we attempted to determine the possibility of a quite simple exploit that requires no special hacker skills and credentials . Our results have proven our speculations to be true . We were able to gain total and unlimited control of a user ’s account merely relying on an expired email account . The underlying reason for the potential of this attack is Hotmail ’s email account expiration policy in combination with Facebook ’s policy of allowing a password to by reset by relying merely on a user ’s given email address . Even though Facebook should not by fully blamed for the possibility of this attack , it could easily prevent it . All they have to do is change their password resetting techniques at least for users having a Hotmail email address . In other words , the password of a Facebook user registered by a Hotmail email address should only be reset by a combination of other techniques , calling for the users to prove their identify via proving the knowledge of the friends they have already connected to , answering one or more security questions , or via a combination of those techniques . Eventually , we conclude that a majority of users who trust social networking websites with their personal information have very little or no control on how this information can be manipulated . Such users need to be more aware of privacy and security threats , as any potential leak may lead to grave consequences . Experience has shown that malicious users who try to crack other people ’s accounts are quite persistent and usually do end up compromising the users’ privacy [ 3 ] .
8 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] 1 billion facebook users on earth : Are we there yet ? Online at : http://wwwforbescom/sites/limyunghui/2012/09/30/1 billionfacebook users on earth are we there yet/
[ 2 ] 2012 LinkedIn hack . Online at : http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/2012 LinkedIn hack .
[ 3 ] Hackers attempting to crack 600,000 facebook accounts every day . Online at : http://wwwdailymailcouk/sciencetech/article2054994/Facebook hackers attempting crack 600 000 accountsdayhtml
[ 4 ] Twitter says hackers may have compromised 250,000 accounts .
Online at : http://wwwforbescom/sites/andygreenberg/2013/02/01/twittersays hackers may have compromised 250000 accounts/
[ 5 ] Lars Backstrom , Cynthia Dwork , and Jon Kleinberg . Wherefore art thou r3579x ? : anonymized social networks , hidden patterns , and structural steganography . In WWW , 2007 .
[ 6 ] Yi Song , Panagiotis Karras , Sadegh Nobari , Giorgos Cheliotis ,
Mingqiang Xue , and St´ephane Bressan . Discretionary social network data revelation with a user centric utility guarantee . In CIKM , 2012 .
[ 7 ] Yi Song , Panagiotis Karras , Qian Xiao , and St´ephane Bressan .
Sensitive label privacy protection on social network data . In SSDBM , 2012 .
[ 8 ] Mingqiang Xue , Panagiotis Karras , Raissi Chedy , Panos Kalnis , and Hung Keng Pung . Delineating social network data anonymization via random edge perturbation . In CIKM , 2012 .
754
