Observing Social Machines Part 1 : What to Observe ? Megan Meredith Lobay David De Roure Oxford e Research Centre
IT Innovation Centre
Clare Hooper
Oxford e Research Centre
University of Oxford
7 Keble Road
Oxford OX1 3QG davidderoure@oercoxacuk
University of Southampton
Gamma House , Enterprise Road
Southampton SO16 7NS clare@ecssotonacuk
University of Oxford
7 Keble Road
Oxford OX1 3QG meganmeredith lobay@oercoxacuk
Kevin Page
Ségolène Tarte
Don Cruickshank
Oxford e Research Centre
University of Oxford
Oxford e Research Centre
University of Oxford
7 Keble Road
Oxford OX1 3QG kevinpage@oercoxacuk
7 Keble Road
Oxford OX1 3QG
ECS
University of Southampton SO17 1BJ segolenetarte@oercoxacuk dgc@ecssotonacuk
Catherine De Roure
Dept of Computer Science
University of Bath Claverton Down Bath BA2 7AY cadr20@bathacuk
ABSTRACT The ambition of our Social Machines Observatory is to study the Social Machines ecosystem . As a preliminary scoping exercise we consider the observation of Social Machines “ in the wild ” as illustrated through two example scenarios . More than identifying and classifying individual machines , we argue that we need to study interactions between machines and observe them throughout their lifecycle . We suggest that purpose may be a key notion to help identify individual Social Machines in composed systems . This exercise provides a basis for later work on how we instrument and observe the ecosystem . Author Keywords Social Machines ; Web Observatories ; Internet of Things ; Mixed Methods ACM Classification Keywords H4m Information systems applications : Miscellaneous . General Terms Human Factors ; Design ; Measurement . INTRODUCTION Very many examples of Social Machines [ 1 ] are proffered by the emerging research community , from Wikipedia to Ushahidi and reCAPTCHA to Galaxy Zoo . This fuels an active debate on the definition and typology of Social Machines , and the realisation that to study them will require the choice of usefully representative examples in a rich and emerging multidimensional design space . In order to identify what type of methods to adopt to
1 they are , before we conclude with observe Social Machines , we first need to establish what we intend to observe . In this short paper we argue for observation of multiple interacting machines throughout their lifecycles , and further suggest that the diversity and polymorphous aspects of Social Machines require the use of mixed observation methodologies in order to capture their driving forces . We first present two scenarios which have been the basis of our discussions , developed directly from the experience of the authors . We then present some of the defining variables of their constituent Social Machines in order to better grasp what some methodological recommendations for the observation of Social Machines . Scenarios 1 ) The Machines of Spam Administrators of social websites are familiar with the problem of spam accounts , whereby accounts are created for purposes other than legitimate use . To limit abuse , mechanisms like reCAPTCHA are used to ensure that accounts are created by humans . Detailed investigation of one such attack during 2012 revealed its source : “ spam as a service ” websites that pay people to create accounts in order to promote products and sites . Our response to this particular attack was firstly to create a team of administrators and scripts to assist with the “ despamming ” , and secondly to make use of a blacklisting website which keeps the details of spammers so that they can be identified during the process of account creation . Consider this now from a Social machines perspective . The original social website is a Social Machine protected by a Social Machine ( reCAPTCHA ) . The spam attack came from another part of the ecosystem , but again from Social Machines . To combat the problem we created a new Social Machine , then we evolved our original machine to made communication without use of another ( blacklisting ) . This example illustrates aspects of multiple interacting Social Machines as well as their design and composition . 2 ) The Befriending of RaspTreePi In December 2012 a Raspberry Pi that had been set up to control Christmas Tree lights was connected to the Twitter API by a simple bot , enabling people to tweet commands at the tree and change the behaviour of the sequence of lights . The next day we found that our tree had a new follower . The follower was simply tweeting quotations and it seemed likely that it was a bot too . Looking at its profile , it carried a link to a dating site . The second bot soon disappeared from Twitter and we may presume this was the result of human complaint and/or automated rules triggered by frequent formation of relationships and posting duplicate or irrelevant content . Whether or not the tree and bot is a Social Machine , or indeed the dating site , are points of consideration . This scenario illustrates a degree of automation involving machine to machine human mediation , automatic assembly , and the presumed bot detection algorithm illustrates a built in observation mechanism . It also raises questions relating to identity : while Social Machines do not claim that people and machines are interchangeable , here we see machines impersonating people . Indeed , people can pay for human twitter followers ( perhaps buying them on the eBay Social Machine ) but there is a risk that these are bots . SOME CHARACTERITICS OF SOCIAL MACHINES 1 ) The power of the Social Machines metaphor comes from the notion that a machine is not just a computer which has some users , but rather it is a purposefully designed sociotechnical system comprising machines and people . We can then view the ecosystem as a set of interacting Social Machines , rather than a layer of computers used by a layer of humans . Hence the study of individual machines is only part of the story : we must also study their interactions . Clearly these are sometimes mediated by humans ( eg spam ) and sometimes computers where automation occurs . Our scenarios suggest they may also be mediated by yet more Social Machines . Machines and users might simultaneously be members of multiple/different social machines at the same time , and our suggestion is that each social machine is delimited by purpose . As well as explicit communication , the machines are coupled through the ecosystem in which they co evolve : if machines are designed to attract users in order to flourish ( a motivation in both scenarios ) then effectively they are competing for popularity . There are limits to numbers of human users and to the attention of each , and the demand has led to provision of bots instead as fake humans .
INTERACTING SOCIAL MACHINES
2
2 ) LIFECYCLES & LIFESPANS While we can study machines that function and interact today , the time axis is also crucial : how did machines come about , how did they ( co )evolve ? It is likely that a Social Machine as structured at any instant will not remain so , rather it will be modified or become redundant . This is why we should think about the design and construction of machines , as well as their operation . This is contextualised by their environment . Indeed , Social Machines may exert strong influences upon one another , building whole ecosystems of which we may be unaware . It is worth noting that the lifecycle of a Social Machine can vary hugely : from the 12 long years of Wikipedia ’s life to date , to the 12 days of relevance and attention that the #UKsnow hashtag enjoys , to 12 hours ( or minutes ) that a Twitter spam bot may last before being removed due to the anti spam Social Machine . Relatedly it should be noted that , although some Social Machines straddle vast quantities of data and may be prominent due to their popularity , there is also a spectrum of sizes ( eg of social network ) which should be reflected in their study . 3 ) MORE THAN THE WEB Common examples of Social Machines are social websites and crowdsourcing sites , especially where some aspect of the behavior is socially constructed . The focus is very much on the Web as the interface between human and machines . While many Social Machines involve intersections between the digital and physical worlds – ranging from “ citizen sensing ” to interpretation of archaeological digs – the second scenario hints at a more intricate coupling in emerging cyberphysical systems . We anticipate increasing prevalence of such systems . For example , to sustainability and energy consumption1 , with some work arguably building office based Social Machines2 . Given this precedent along with the augmentation of houses to tweet data including ( but not limited to ) energy usage , it is no stretch to imagine small communities ( eg a street of several dozen houses ) that use an imprecise indicator ( traffic light style colours , or grades from 1 5 ) to show who among neighbours are using more or less energy . This is an instant , small scale Social Machine , the effects of which could scale to have a huge impact.3 increasing attention is being given
1 http://wwwbbccouk/news/technology 20173641 2 http://mqtt.org/projects/andy_house 3 Further along the “ cyberphysical ” axis , a Social Machine might occur within a house , wherein multiple appliances ( the washing machine , cooker , dishwasher and phone charger ) negotiate among themselves about scheduling access to the power grid , drawing on current grid usage data : this Social Machine , unlike the prior examples , is presided over by computers rather than humans .
Larger scale Social Machines that draw on Internet of Things rather than the Web might include systems that use car GPS information to calculate ( and disseminate ) current traffic congestion , or that manage shopping patterns by allowing shoppers to access live aggregate data from RFID tags as goods are bought . AT THE CORE OF SOCIAL MACHINES One of the fascinating aspects of a Social Machine as a ( eco )system is its ability to resist attempts at defining it . Inspect it too closely and you’ll end up studying its constituting parts in great detail ( humans , machines , bots ) ; step away too much and you loose sight of what the constituting parts are doing . One of the main reasons why this is happening is that a successful Social Machine , whether intentionally designed or serendipitously emerging , has all the properties of an emergent system ; the fabric itself of its constituting parts mutates under their mutual influence , as do the interactions between them . The result is that the constituting parts cannot be classified into straightforward layers anymore but actually span various layers . It follows that to observe the whole system , some methodological adaptations need to occur . Discussions around the scenarios suggest that purpose is a key notion . Is Twitter one Social Machine or many sociallyconstructed machines with a common infrastructure ? In the latter case the individual machines may be distinguished by purpose , with the caveats that ( a ) machines may be multipurpose ( eg reCAPTCHA clearly has a dual role ) , and ( b ) purpose may evolve . That individual Social Machines are constructed with a purpose is consistent with our emphasis on their design and construction . But as we know too that behaviours can be emergent , we will also be designing combinations of Social Machines in an attempt to “ engineer ” the desired combined and emergent behaviours within the ecosystem . METHODOLOGICAL IMPLICATIONS Can sufficient observations be achieved by analysing log files ? The scenarios in this short paper illustrate the value of other methodologies , understanding purpose and emergent behaviours . These understandings may come about through considering the “ user experience ” of/in the machine , through engaging directly with the machine , and through working directly with those who design machines ( successful or not ) . It is essential to account for User Experience when considering these contexts . Key aspects include not only the experience of end users interacting with the Social Machine ( web based or otherwise ) , but also user perceptions of the system : how many people realise what Recaptchas do ? How much do casual browsers of Reddit understand the importance of ( or the rules governing ) ‘karma’ ? We need to understand the rules that ground Social Machines , whether elements within were designed or participate intentionally
3 and between interactions or otherwise : how does eBay ’s governance of sellers impact not only the experience of sellers themselves , but also buyers and other online auction sites ? In the context of Social Machines , User Experience concerns not only the interaction between Human A and Computer B , but understandings humans , computers , and social constructs / rules . Just as the use of mixed methods is essential in Web Science as a whole , so it is the case when observing , analysing and evaluating Social Machines . If we are to answer such questions as “ How do people experience the social web ? ” , “ How do we evaluate the process by which this Social Machines was constructed ? ” , and even “ How do we build a Social Machine to achieve X ? ” , we need to be able to observe , understand and model experiences . Mixed methods help us deal with the variability of human experience by letting us access the richer insights and multiple types of finding that qualitative research methods unfold , while dealing with big quantitative data in a meaningful and scalable way . We need to use qualitative and quantitative methods in conjunction to triangulate and better understand our results : statistical analysis and qualitative coding yield much stronger results when the products of one inform those of the other . MOVING FORWARD In depth analysis of a small number of high profile Social Machines is a useful function of a Social Machines Observatory , indeed it may be necessary – but we have argued that it is not sufficient . Social Machines need to be studied within their ecosystem , especially as the purpose of that study is to be able to design and construct successful machines and this is a function of their context . We argue then for an “ ecological ” perspective . The case studies in a Social Machines observatory need to be based on regions of the ecosystem involving Social Machines that are : 1 . Interacting and competing with others ; 2 . Being designed , born and co evolving ; 3 . Variable in size , purpose and intent ; 4 . Reflecting towards cyber physical and trends the machine to machine systems .
Having chosen exemplar areas of the ecosystem we need to identify : • The constituent Social Machines , by considering the intent and evolving purpose of constructions deemed to be a Social Machine ;
• Technologies , humans and their interfaces , including the intersection with the physical world ;
• Ground rules that lead to the emergent behaviour : these may be explicitly stated as rules by which people abide , encoded technology works , potentially even just part of community conduct or grounded in how other Social Machines behave . in how the
In this paper we have discussed what to observe . The next part of our work is to determine how to make those observations , and this will be informed also by parallel research on the definition and typology of Social Machines . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We are grateful to all our colleagues for useful discussions and insights . The work of several of the authors is supported by SOCIAM : The Theory and Practice of Social Machines , funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council ( EPSRC ) under grant number EP/J017728/1 the Universities of Southampton , Oxford and Edinburgh , and by Digital Social Research funded by the UK Economic and Social Research Council under grant number RES 149 34 0001 A . The “ Machines of Spam ” scenario arose in the development of comprising and the myExperiment social website supported by multiple projects including EPSRC grants EP/G026238/1 and EP/F05811X/1 and STREP FP7 ICT 2007 6 270192 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Berners Lee and M . Fischetti . Weaving the web : The original design and ultimate destiny of the world wide web by its inventor . Harper , San Francisco , 1999 . [ 2 ] M . Motoyama , D . McCoy , K . Levchenko , G . M . Voelker , and S . Savage . Dirty Jobs : The Role of Freelance Labor in Web Service Abuse . In Proceedings of the USENIX Security Symposium , San Francisco , CA , August 2011 .
4
