Search Result Presentation : Supporting Post Search
Navigation by Integration of Taxonomy Data
Matthias Keller
Steinbuch Centre for Computing Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
D 76128 Karlsruhe , Germany matthiaskeller@kitedu
Patrick Mühlschlegel
Steinbuch Centre for Computing Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
D 76128 Karlsruhe , Germany uzbto@studentkitedu
Hannes Hartenstein
Steinbuch Centre for Computing Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
D 76128 Karlsruhe , Germany hanneshartenstein@kitedu the
ABSTRACT As a result of additional semantic annotations and novel mining methods , Web site taxonomies are more and more available to machines , including search engines . Recent research shows that after a search result is clicked , users often continue navigating on the destination site because in many cases a single document cannot satisfy the information need . The role Web site taxonomies play in this post search navigation phase has not yet been researched . In this paper we analyze in an empirical study of three highly frequented Web sites how Web site taxonomies influence the next browsing steps of users arriving from a search engine . The study reveals that users not randomly explore the destination site , but proceed to the direct child nodes of the landing page with significantly higher frequency compared to the other linked pages . We conclude that the common post search navigation strategy in taxonomies is to descend towards more specific results . The study has interesting implications for the presentation of search results . Current search engines focus on summarizing linked document only . In doing so , search engines ignore the fact the linked documents are in many cases just the starting point for further navigation . Based on the observed post search navigation strategy , we propose to include information about child nodes of linked documents in the presentation of search results . Users would benefit by saving clicks , because they could not only estimate whether linked document provides useful information , but also whether post search navigation is promising . Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 Information Presentation – Hypertext/Hypermedia ; Keywords Search Result Presentation , Taxonomies , Clickstreams 1 . INTRODUCTION Without systems for crawling and indexing Web contents , the largest information source of the planet could not be utilized as it is today . Consequently , search engines and related technologies have attracted a lot of research interest in recent years . Current search engines are document centric in a way that they return a list of ranked documents . However , in their original context the documents are usually part of a site . Each site has its own , handcrafted information architecture . Information architecture ,
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
[ Information Systems ] :
Interfaces and the site linked . It information labeled and is organized , taxonomies , understood as which is independent from the underlying technical system , is the way is to organize handcrafted , because humans know best how information for human access . For example , information architects spend much effort on dividing the content in different sections , on finding meaningful labels and on arranging them in taxonomies for creating hierarchical menus . At the same time , the information architecture is of crucial importance for the usability and , thus , the success of the site . Today and in the near future automated keyword extraction and clustering algorithms will not be able to solve this task as well as humans do . But developing the information architecture is not only human creativity but engineering . Methods as Card Sorting [ 1 ] are used to arrange pages based on surveys . User reactions are observed in usability labs with methods such as eye tracking . Web analytics are applied to iteratively increase user satisfaction and conversion rates [ 2 ] . Usability involves many factors , but as we outline in Section 3 , well designed Web the hierarchical arrangement of documents in different menu levels , are of particular importance . Given the effort usability experts spend on designing taxonomies , one would expect that this semantic information is very valuable for augmenting Web search results . Surprisingly , except displaying extracted breadcrumb trails ( cf . Section 2 ) , current search engines do not yet utilize taxonomy data . The simple reason is that Web site taxonomies were not available in the past . HTML allows to model nested lists but not to define site wide taxonomies for navigation . Instead , the taxonomies are only visually encoded . By this , we mean that humans can easily distinguish eg the main menu that represents the main content sections and thus the first level of the Web site taxonomy as well as the second navigation level based on its visual features and position . Machines in contrast cannot extract these semantics from the HTML code . However , two current developments change this situation : • More and more Web sites use structured data markup to encode machine readable knowledge . That includes , eg , a semantic formalization of breadcrumb trails1 specified by Schema.org , which is an initiative of the major search engine operators . Breadcrumb trails show the position of a page in a Web site taxonomy . By combining the breadcrumb trails of each page the whole Web site taxonomy can be retrieved .
• Novel data mining methods allow extracting taxonomy data from sites based on mining navigation elements . The search engine Google , eg , is able to recognize breadcrumb trails in many cases , even if they do not have semantic annotations .
1 Cf . http://ui patterns.com/patterns/Breadcrumbs
1269 Our own work includes a method for mining Web site menus [ 3 ] as foundation for extracting the underlying taxonomies . In this paper we present a novel way of utilizing the newly available Web site taxonomies for Web search . In more detail , the contributions and the structure of this paper are : •
In Section 3 we provide a definition for Web site taxonomies and analyze that usability experts attach great importance to them .
• Current search engines focus on delivering the most interesting documents , but we argue in Section 4 that this paradigm does not match current research results on search strategies . We conclude that search engines should also try to give information if a document is a suitable starting point for further navigation on the site . We provide illustrative examples that demonstrate how users can benefit from an enhanced presentation of search results as proposed in this paper . In Section 5 , we present an empirical study based on usage data of three highly frequented Web sites that supports our findings . The role taxonomies play in post search navigation has not yet been researched . The study reveals that users tend to navigate along the edges of the Web site taxonomy down towards more specific results , when arriving from a search engine . This means that the user ’s next browsing steps can be predicted effectively and , moreover , that information about the most interesting next browsing steps can be included in the presentation of the search results .
•
2 . RELATED WORK The PageRank algorithm [ 4 ] , which is the foundation of Google ’s ranking method , models the Web as a graph , defined by documents and hyperlinks . That model is an abstraction of the human perception , in which also sites , site sections and content hierarchies can be distinguished . This abstraction is inherent to current search engines as Google , Bing or Yandex , which are optimized to return the most interesting individual documents as a ranked list ( they do not return the most interesting sites or site sections ) . Thus , the largest part of research on search engines addresses the fundamental problem of composing the result list . This includes ranking ( eg [ 5] ) , diversification ( eg [ 6 ] ) and personalization ( eg [ 7] ) . Other work focusses on the presentation of search results , eg by clustering the results [ 8 ] or improving the visual arrangement [ 9 ] , but to our knowledge , integrating taxonomy information as proposed in this paper has not been discussed before . However , the search engine Google does already integrate taxonomy information in another way , by displaying mined breadcrumb trails ( cf . Figure 1 ) . Details about the mining method are not published . In contrast , so called deeplinks as supported by Google and Bing ( cf . Figure 4 ( 1) ) , are not based on the original Web site taxonomy , but on ranking algorithms . A lot of work exists on extracting or generating taxonomies from Web content , usually based on text analysis , hyperlink structure , URL features these works do not aim at ( eg[10],[11],[12 ] ) However , recovering the original taxonomies as designed by the information architects ( cf . definition in Section 3 ) . In our previous work we were presenting novel methods to close this gap [ 3 ] . Semantic search is a research topic that aims at utilizing the Web of Data for augmenting traditional search with additional information , determining the context of a query based on domain knowledge or overcoming traditional document centric combination structure these the or a of
Figure 1 . Search result with breadcrumb trail ( google.com ) approach by query answering technologies . As Guha et al . [ 13 ] have observed , there are two kinds of searches , navigational searches and research searches . They argue that semantic search attempts to improve research searches . Since the Web of Data is a promising source of taxonomy information , our paper shows that rich markup can be used to improve navigational searches , too . Using click through data to improve ranking is a common approach , but few works consider data from user interaction with the linked resources . A detailed analysis of different features capturing the searcher ’s behavior on the landing page can be found in [ 14 ] . Complete post click navigation trails have been studied and it was shown that users do not only benefit from the information on the landing page and the destination , but also from the intermediate pages [ 15][16 ] . To our knowledge , the influence of taxonomies on post search navigation was not studied before . 3 . WEB SITE TAXONOMIES In Web related research , the terms hierarchy and taxonomy are sometimes used as synonyms , sometimes used with different meanings . Based on an information architecture point of view , we propose the following definition , which is used in the rest of this paper : Definition : The term Web site taxonomy denotes labels for a group of Web resources of the same site and a logical tree structure in which they are arranged . The labels and the tree structure are designed with the purpose of facilitating access to resources . Each label describes the associated document and the documents associated with all descendant labels . Thus , in this paper Web site taxonomies are understood as the logical organization behind the hierarchical menus that can be found on almost all Web sites . The nodes of the tree structure are given by labels , but each label is associated with a document . Labels that are not leaves represent multiple resources . For example , the node “ sports ” in a Web site taxonomy of a news site subsumes a large number of individual documents associated with descendant nodes , eg “ soccer ” . Thus , the tree edges can be interpreted as type subtype relationships and we prefer the term taxonomy to hierarchy . Web site taxonomies as understood in this paper are logical structures , not link structures . To understand the role taxonomies play for accessing Web sites , it is helpful to switch to the perspective of usability experts . There is a broad agreement on the importance of taxonomies ( ie , hierarchies ) for Web site organization . Well designed taxonomies are the “ foundation of almost all good information architectures ” [ 1 ] , hierarchical structures are “ far and away the most common ” [ 2 ] so that “ most Web sites have some kind of hierarchy ” [ 17 ] . The whole chapter about Web navigation in [ 18 ] assumes an underlying taxonomy as a matter of course . As noted in [ 1 ] the preference of hierarchies may seem “ blasphemous ” in an hypertextual environment , but makes sense from the designer ’s or information architect ’s perspective . Taxonomies are familiar and humans “ have been organizing information into hierarchies since the beginning of time ” [ 1 ] . The authors of [ 17 ] and [ 18 ] mention two concepts the user ’s position : These are highlighting the active menu item and using breadcrumb trails . Both concepts are based on an underlying hierarchical content organization . From the Web designer ’s perspective the idea of indicate to
1270 lo ocality seems t e example , a user c th he Wikipedia si r elying on a hier to o develop a m lo ocation [ 1 ] . 4 . ENHANC 4 S SNIPPETS A Analysis of logg p promising search o often follows ( e . s search engine is n to o limitations o b behavior [ 19 ] . Th p prefer to enter le ta arget site if know a a series of navig oad compared t lo b behavior is ca e explanation for th he orienteering c complex and can T The post search B By entering the s E Engine Result P p promising result u user assesses th d decides if either c continue browsi d display short sum s search result snip th he user can satis W We argue that w th he search resu s summarizing the s snippets should a ta arget page is a g same time “ Whe s n next ” are the th [ 17 ] . The questio p page a good star th hat , information c can be very use a argued in Sectio n navigation . Thu v valuable for sear T To illustrate this s summary for the W Web site as it Search Query
Search to be naturally cannot answer w ite because it is rarchical organiz ental model for y connected to where a certain ar one of the few zation . But hiera r the site organ taxonomies . F rticle is located o sites that are n archies allow use nization and the
For on not ers eir a ite ect ue ch en he by ve his her des ore
1 . ) ch a he nd to nes ed her
ULT DATA after a click on on the target si e that “ the perfe vigation is not du to human searc hat searchers ofte omain name of th page afterwards b a lower cognitiv earch query . Th authors . Anoth navigation besid need is often mo e alone [ 15 ] . d in Figure 2 . ( 1 rred to the Searc user clicks on ng page . ( 3 . ) Th landing page an o the SERP or nt search engin the SERP , calle give hints wheth arget page . mind the focus nded . Instead only , search resu whether a certa exploration . At th d “ Where can I g gation can answ uivalent to “ Is th ion ? ” . Because on the target pag – and as we hav ral role for We an be especial
CING SEAR WITH TAX ged search trail h result a phase g . [ 15],[16] ) . Te not enough ” and f the search en he authors of the ss specific keyw wn ) to narrow in gation steps , wh to entering a m alled orienteeri the frequency o theory is that th nnot be satisfied navigation scen search query the Page ( SERP ) . ( and is transferr he information r to end the sea ing on the targ mmaries of the ppets . By this the sfy his informati with post search ult snippets sh e content of the also try to answ good starting po ere am I ? ” , “ Wh hree basic questi on “ Where can I rting point for f n about the navi eful in search re on 3 , taxonomi us , taxonomy ch result snippet idea we created page “ Participa is displayed by Search 1 .
RCH RESU XONOMY D ls shows that a e of navigation eevan et al . state d post search nav ngine but due e study found th words ( eg the do n on the target p hich results in a more specific se ing by the a of post search n he information n by a single page ario is illustrated e user is transfer ( 2 . ) Then the red to the landin found on the l arch , to return to get site . Curren target pages on ey are trying to g on need on the t navigation in m hould be exten e target pages o wer the question oint for further e hat ’s here ? ” and ions Web navig I go next ” is equ further explorati gation options o esult snippets – ies play a centr information ca ts . two mockups . F ants ” from the of y googlecom Engine Result
Figure 3 shows th fficial WWW201 The text snipp Page ( SERP ) of of ult ain he go wer his of ge ve eb lly he 13 pet
Landing Page
2 .
3 .
? Navigati
Return to S
ERP on on Target Site
F Figure 2 . Scenari u user is transferred a a promising result o or continues brow io : After the sea d to the landing p t ( 2 ) . The user en wsing ( 3 ) . arch results are d page of a target s nds his search , ret displayed ( 1 ) , th he site by clicking on n turns to the SERP P
Figure the offi displaye tag . ( 2 ) child pa hints ab summar
3 . ( 1 ) Search res icial WWW2013 ed text is the des Mockup in whic ages . While the o about the naviga ry . sult snippet for t Web site as pr cription provided ch the descriptio original presenta ation target , the the page “ Partici esented by goog d by the correspo on is replaced by ation does provid mockup gives a ipants ” from glecom2 The onding metay links to the de few useful a very good supports shortc cut links to pag s of a site.3 The important pages algorithms and d oogle ’s ranking a up below shows a te . ( 2 ) The mocku xonomy . Users ar e based on the tax i content , even if the text snip ges that are linked pages do not reflect an alternative re able to get ppet is not rovided HTML text summary b ntrast to the orig eful information o replace all te mple is to illust ild nodes and te
L metadata . In t by links to the ch ginal presentatio about the navig xt snippets with trate the usefuln ext snippets can the mockup hild nodes of on the child gation target . h taxonomy ness of child n be used in
Figure conside are com the mai present an ove underst origina below w the targ nodes p We do informa node in combin Current addition deep lin conside algorith reflect informa ( 1 ) sh represe
2 Source 3 Source
4 . ( 1 ) Google ered as the most mputed using Go in topics of the sit tation for the site erview of the tandable . ates from the pr we replaced the get page . In con provide very use o not propose to ation – the exam nformation . Chi nation . t search engin nal links , but th nks or site link ered as the mo hm and of the s the logical stru ation about the s hows the searc enting our resear e page : http://www e site : http://dsn.tm rich search sn nes already enr t approaches . Th hey use different ks are links to individual pag ages based on ost important pa and click logs . T search engine a e and they do ucture of a site inked search resu sub pages of a li pet displayed ch result snipp rch group ’s Web b site . Links to es , retrieved on 20 w2013.org/attende ed on 2013/2/14 mkitedu/ , retrieve ippets with he so called ges that are the ranking They do not not contain ult . Figure 4 by Google the English
013/2/14
1271 mni students a y page is presente st visited pages he complete rang ast to the mocku pful for users th on one of the s all users intereste dea of considerin le current searc nts , the taxonom a user can find o are ed of ge up hat six ed ng ch my on n the presentatio that post searc experts state th ion . However , th tion has not bee resent a study th on ch hat he en hat to inks compared e 5 ) ? are more effectiv by current searc ve ch ere are two wa d nodes : The fir mate whether it use they provid target . The fir f the landing pag us , provide usef nodes are used ng the parent . Th hild nodes can b eep links used b ys rst is de rst ge ful as he be by es in post searc ne is not sufficien has to be tracke owser toolbars an arget sites must b ations or minin we analyzed th ess the server lo underlying conte ch nt . ed . nd be ng he gs ent my information in n the findings reover , usability in Web navigati st search navigat his section we pr ions : ence for child li avigation ( Figure ich child links a links provided embers and alu he German entry present the mos ormation about th d there , in contra ep links are help t can be found are useful for a illustrates the id b search . Whil certain documen tion about what dual group me p links , while th p links might rep do not give info hat can be found s below . The dee information that t the child links . The example i igation in Web eleport users to es more informat ction . ATION grating taxonom ts is based on mmon and , mor a central role i onomies on pos arched yet . In th owing two questi bserve a prefere in post search na ituations in whi links than deep p pages of individ d displayed as deep a above . The deep th he site but they o of information th w with child nodes a are seeking for i li inked pages , but in n the target site p post search navi e engines try to te a approach include a a site or a site sec 5 . EVALUA 5 T The idea of integ o of search resul n navigation is com ta axonomies play in nfluence of taxo e empirically resea a answers the follo • Can we ob • other links i • Are there si • as shortcut engines ? ons result from T The two questio it from the inte u users can benefi child nodes hel s scenario is that a linked search w worth visiting mation about t a additional inform verifying that th q question aims at d next navigation a are the preferred e second scenari in nformation . The ctly access them s shortcuts to direc aims at analyz s second question ut links in comp e effective shortcu ngines . c current search en 5.1 Experim mental Setu 5 p of taxonomie ts in the role T To gain insigh stream data from m a search engin n navigation , click the target sites interaction with In n addition , the i providers of bro a is available to S Such kind of data reover , the taxon s site owners . Mor nomies of the ta markup annota the necessary e extracted and t available . Thus , t yet broadly a m methods are not h we could acce eb sites of whic u usage data of We Web site taxono a and extract the W omy from the u abase . m management data ckstreams from W We extracted cli d of two weeks s sites for a period du ( A ) , www.sc s sites wwwkited sponsible for a m municipality res re preprocessed clickstreams wer c y a and identify individual s Site A were a c clickstreams for C . The clickstrea 1 15,953 for Site C th he content hier rarchy to analy t that time the h r elation to it . At ( C ) elements . T 6 632 ( B ) and 154 ( A ( C ) . A ) , 9 ( B ) and 4 the fact that th gration of child lp users to estim h result , becau the navigation he child nodes o n steps , and , thu io is that child n m without visitin zing , whether ch parison with de to files of three We the server log f We considered th in May 2012 . W and the site of cckitedu ( B ) a citizens ( C ) . Th about 25,000 c ries from crawle to remove entr th sessions . At he end 470,82 0 for Site B an analyzed , 89,360 d with a model ams were aligne yze the naviga ation behavior sisted of 628 ( A hierarchies cons They had a maxi imum depth of eb he f a he ers 27 nd of in A ) , 10 page and b ) eam associa is
Figure
5.2 P child pages otherwi is a chi defined by se consecu search from a referer )
The ven . bes a user s k th clickstre session consist ing the posts that arrive y the HTTP n the site . If e taxonomy is ated with a par giv after the landing p on child node nks ing a child node a siting a linked no of Child Lin e 5 : a ) User visiti user vis Preference o nario , we are int e ( which can b page and contin function that has terested in users be identified by nue browsing on s the value 1 if utive clicks , wh navigation scen a search engine ) on a landing p s the indicator f ise , the ratio of c ges w1 , w2… streams S S(cid:2921 ) ting of zk ( cid:1876)∈(cid:1827 ) and 0 sisting of n pag w1 , w2… wn(cid:4669 ) cons Web site W ( cid:4668)w For a Wwn , the ets CwI ⊆ W of ent page wi . A A set of j click ( cid:4668)S,S(cid:2870)… … S(cid:2920)(cid:4669 ) ( cid:2870),… s(cid:2921),(cid:2936)(cid:3169)(cid:3423 ) describ ( cid:3419)s(cid:2921),,s(cid:2921 ) , ere s(cid:2921),(cid:2922)∈W for l 1… zk . Regardi 1(cid:2885)(cid:4666)x(cid:4667 ) is clickstreams RC S whose second ( cid:2903 ) 1|S|(cid:3533)1(cid:2887)(cid:3177)(cid:3171 ) |(cid:2903)| ( cid:3171),(cid:3117)(cid:3435)s(cid:2923),(cid:2870)(cid:3439 ) ild node of the fiRC(cid:2903 ) ( cid:2923)(cid:2880 ) atio ACS by AC(cid:2903 ) 1|S|∑|(cid:2903)|(cid:2923)(cid:2880)1|S|∑ 1(cid:2887)(cid:3177)(cid:3171),(cid:3117)(cid:3435)s(cid:2923),(cid:2870)(cid:3439 ) ∑ 1(cid:2887)(cid:3177)(cid:3171),(cid:3117)(cid:3435)s s(cid:2923),(cid:2870)(cid:3439 ) |(cid:2903)|(cid:2923)(cid:2880)∑
( cid:3117)(cid:3627 ) ( cid:3627)C(cid:2903)(cid:3171),(cid:3117 ) ( cid:3627)C(cid:2903)(cid:3171),(cid:3117)(cid:3627 ) |(cid:2903)|(cid:2923)(cid:2880 ) |(cid:2903)|(cid:2923)(cid:2880 ) er words AC(cid:2903 ) is th ted AC(cid:2903 ) as the ra at ratio would b on the landing ng by the averag be heavily biased page . Thus , we ge number of c d by the ratio of e normalized ra child nodes on of the landing p shown on the v
Still tha links o dividin pages : irst visited page is given by : f child node visited page the landing
In othe nodes o were s comput of all s estimat leads to link wh clickstr Web sit Table 1 be click links . T from ab can be hierarch accorda narrow down t see wh differs clicks t similar Regard display options types o would h starting he ratio of the n pages to the num visited landing atio of clicks on d links . By com ikely that a user f the landing pag
For both AC(cid:2903 ) an th ( cid:3408)1 and landi shown non child te if it is more li o a child page of hich does not . F reams with lengt d had child node te taxonomy and average child lin 1 shows that in a arriving from a s ked from users a d link clicks to n The ratio of child . Because of the bout 4.7 to 117 users clearly ten concluded that nding page . The hy from the lan e ance with the idea of pos arget [ 19 ] – whi wing in on the ta xonomy toward the Web site tax ior of users on s hether the behavi eral browsing b from the gene that did not follo ow a search . The child links . preference for c engine scenario ding the search nodes on the S ying the child n rowsing step eff s for the next br of sites . The fin ndings indicate e estimate wheth help users to pre g point for furthe er exploration an number of all cli mber of all child pages . The sam non children to mparing both val clicks on a cert ge than clicking nd AC(cid:2903 ) we only cks on child d nodes that me way we o the number lues we can tain link that on a certain y considered belong to the ing pages that b es . nks are much mo search engine tha non child link c preference for c nd to descend in e results are ve st search orient ich is equivalen ds more specific search engine la behavior , we al e extended data ore likely to an non child clicks ranges child links it n the content ery much in teering and nt to moving c results . To anding pages so included set shows a ncluded that o , it can be con nticipate the SERP would an t for similar fectively , at leas information that the extra her a search resu ult is a good g . nd worth visiting
1272
S Site A S Site B S Site C
S Site A S Site B S Site C
Table 1 : Hits from
: Child node hit m Search Engines
All Hits ts vs . non child node hits
#Clicks
14918 1672 736
ACs
ACS
#Clicks
ACs A ACS 11.74 0.0681 0.0058 1 4.7 0.0672 0.0143 10.88 0.0925 0.0085 1 ts vs . non paren Parent node hit m Search Engines
91520 19017 3525
All Hits
ACs ACS
0.081 0.009 0.074 0.013 0.068 0.012 nt node hits
Table 2 : P Hits from
#Clicks
APs
APS
APs APS
APS
#Clicks
APs
3711 2031 294
0.0182 0.0189 0.0429 0.0259 0.068 0.021
0.96 1.66 3.24
93858 27930 3908
0.019 0.024 0.04 0.021 0.044 0.023
AC Cs AC CS 9 9 69 5.6 5.6 67
AP PsPS AP
0.7 79 1 . 9 1.9 91 cs were comput T The same metric able 2 ) . Interesti p parent nodes ( Ta arent pages are s sites , links to pa ence for child no li inks . The prefere 5.3 Child L Links as Sho 5 interested in the I f users are not i des can also h it tself , child nod e specific result s shortcuts to mor s shortcuts we c o of child nodes a y current search li inks provided by nks ” and are rep li inks ” or “ site lin ked by the searc o of a site as rank hms as PageRa a analysis algorith presented in com D Deep links are p site ( cf . Figure 4 ) ) . s t is assumed th F From now on it hm that deliver r anking algorith s of a site . Furthe in nteresting pages the top entries e engine provides li inks if a page of f the site is return ting pages based th he most interest of pages order g generated a list eceived for each h site from the r o compute the r th hen processed t f first child node o of the landing p eded to the pag u users that procee was done for al ( Figure 6 ) . This s had child node th he landing page atio of clicks tha r at were received was computed . I w wide most hits w ng page had at le w where the landin atio of clicks on to o compare the ra e two linked pa o of clicks that the r eceived . This w as done for all t s six ( Figure 7 ) . T The plot can be i p per search resul g global ranking w a average about 54 w were attracted by r eceived in avera S Site B the first f a average about 51 w were attracted by g globally ranked n interpreted as fo t shall be prese would be the bet 4 percent of the y those four page age about 41 per four child nodes 1 percent of the y the globally ra nodes attract slig for ree om the preference f ted to analyze t wo out of the thr ngly only on tw often than rando clicked more o odes is far more significant . s ortcut Links e information on n the landing pag cks by providin help saving clic ea of the potenti ts . To get an ide nodes to shortc compared child e are called “ dee h engines . Those presenting the m ost relevant pag ally based on lin ch engine , usua ick through rate ank [ 4 ] and cli mbination with th he entry page of ge ng ial cut epges nk es . f a at a search eng rs an accurate ermore , we assum of the list as a ned as result . W d on our usage red by the num log files . The c ratio of users th page to compare ge with the site ll clickstreams w es . For the same d by the linked p In a similar way east 2 child node n the first two ch ages with the be hree sites up to ect gine has a perfe ost list of the mo ch me that the searc cut additional shortc e model the list of data . For this w we ey mber of hits the ere clickstreams we o a hat proceeded to of e it to the ratio its e wide most visi if with length > 1 , e clickstreams , th he tepage with the sit y all clickstream ms ed , es were processe tio hildren to the rat ng est global rankin a child number of ollows : If , eg , f ented , the deeptter choice for S e first clicks on es , while the fou rcent of the clic s of the landing clicks versus on anked links . For ghtly more clicks four shortcut lin links based on Site A , because the landing pag ur first child nod cks . However , f pages received nly 35 percent th r Site C again , th s . ks a in ge des for in hat he
Figure node o
6 : How does the of a landing page to the pag number of users compare to the n ge with the site w Site A that proceed to t number of users t wide most visits ? the first child that proceed
6
6
Child nodes Site−wide most hit ts
1
2 first k child nodes / first k links fr
3
4
5 5 rom site−wide rankin g
Site B
Child nodes Site−wide most hit ts
0.7
0.6
0.5 o i t a r t i h
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1 o i t a r t i h
0
1
2 first k child nodes / first k links fr
3
4
5 5 om site−wide ranking g
Site C
Child nodes Site−wide most hits s
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1 o i t a r t i h
0
1
2 first k child 7 . Child links vs . Figure ceived by the first hits rec nked pages with t the k lin sults indicate tha The res y useful as short be very nks . However th deep lin o child pages . Bo links to d to provide sh be used sites while chil whole most in nteresting browsi 5.4 S Summary on the results of Based o • Ta axonomies have po ost search navig arr riving from a na avigate to a child
3
6
4 nodes / first k links fro site wide rankin t k child nodes an the site wide mos at links to child rtcuts , sometime here is no need oth complement hortcuts to the m ld page links pr ing destinations
5 5 g om site−wide ranking ng : For each site t the ratio of nd the ratio of hit s received by d . st hits are plotted nodes of search h results can tractive than es even more att ep links and to trade off dee t each other . De ep links can contents for most important c rovide shortcuts to the next for individual p pages . f the experiment e a strong influe gation . Empirica search engine d page than to a we can conclud ence on where al findings show are much mor another random l e : users go in w that users re likely to linked page .
1273 •
•
We conclude that child links would help users to estimate if post search navigation promises useful information . The findings indicate that child nodes can provide useful shortcuts that can be generated without statistical click data . They can be more relevant for a user ’s search than the shortcut links provided by current search engines and can be a better model for the next navigation steps . The experiments show that even in case of informational and hierarchically organized sites the navigation behavior in relation to the taxonomy differs . More research is necessary to clarify for which sites child links are suitable and how they can be combined with other features .
6 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we have demonstrated how Web site taxonomies , which are increasingly available to machines , can be utilized to further improve the presentation of search results . We have analyzed that not only the target document should be summarized in search result snippets but also the most interesting options for the next navigation steps , which are the child pages in case of taxonomies . An empirical study supports our argumentation . By analyzing three highly frequented Web sites we have shown that a link to a child node of a landing page receives up to 11 times as much hits as a random other link in post search navigation . Thus , child nodes allow users to anticipate the next navigation options effectively and help them assessing whether a landing page is a good starting point for further exploration . We have also shown that child nodes are a promising complement to shortcut links current search engines provide based on their ranking algorithms . An analysis of the question whether the findings generalize to all sites with taxonomies or just some sites with taxonomies was out of scope of this paper . Strategies for deciding in which cases taxonomy information should be presented , exclusively or in combination with other features , are interesting for future research , as well as the question , which metrics are suitable . Another possible extension of the presented ideas is that , if the ranked list of search results contains multiple documents with the same parent , the search results can be presented aggregated and more clearly arranged . Instead of displaying all child nodes separately the parent node with child links could be presented , even if the parent itself does not match the search query . Search engines could start integrating taxonomy information of sites trails , according to the vocabulary of schemaorg From the breadcumb trails of individual pages the complete site taxonomy can easily be assembled . If search engines would start utilizing taxonomy information , Web developers in turn would be motivated to integrate the corresponding semantic markup in their code . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Morville and L . Rosenfeld , Information architecture for the World Wide Web . Sebastopol , ( Calif . ) [ etc. ] : O’Reilly , 2006 . that have semantically annotated breadcrumb
[ 2 ] J . J . Garrett , The elements of user experience  : user centered design for the Web and beyond . Berkeley , CA : New Riders , 2011 .
[ 3 ] M . Keller and M . Nussbaumer , “ MenuMiner : revealing the information architecture of large web sites by analyzing maximal cliques , ” in Proceedings of the 21st international conference companion on World Wide Web , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 1025–1034 .
[ 4 ] L . Page , S . Brin , R . Motwani , and T . Winograd , The
PageRank Citation Ranking : Bringing Order to the Web . 1999 .
[ 5 ] C . Kang , X . Wang , Y . Chang , and B . Tseng , “ Learning to rank with multi aspect relevance for vertical search , ” in Proceedings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 453–462 .
O’Reilly , 2007 .
[ 18 ] S . Krug , Don’t make me think!  : a common sense approach to Web usability . Berkeley , Calif : New Riders Pub . , 2006 .
[ 19 ] J . Teevan , C . Alvarado , M . S . Ackerman , and D . R . Karger ,
“ The perfect search engine is not enough : a study of orienteering behavior in directed search , ” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , New York , NY , USA , 2004 , pp . 415–422 .
[ 6 ] D . Rafiei , K . Bharat , and A . Shukla , “ Diversifying web search results , ” in Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World wide web , New York , NY , USA , 2010 , pp . 781–790 .
[ 7 ] D . Sontag , K . Collins Thompson , P . N . Bennett , R . W .
White , S . Dumais , and B . Billerbeck , “ Probabilistic models for personalizing web search , ” in Proceedings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 433–442 .
[ 8 ] U . Scaiella , P . Ferragina , A . Marino , and M . Ciaramita ,
“ Topical clustering of search results , ” in Proceedings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 223–232 .
[ 9 ] F . Chierichetti , R . Kumar , and P . Raghavan , “ Optimizing two dimensional search results presentation , ” in Proceedings of the fourth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , New York , NY , USA , 2011 , pp . 257–266 . [ 10 ] R . Kumar , K . Punera , and A . Tomkins , “ Hierarchical topic segmentation of websites , ” in Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , New York , NY , USA , 2006 , pp . 257–266 .
[ 11 ] W . K . Cheung and Y . Sun , “ Identifying a hierarchy of bipartite subgraphs for web site abstraction , ” Web Intelli . and Agent Sys . , vol . 5 , no . 3 , pp . 343–355 , Aug . 2007 .
[ 12 ] Q . Ho , J . Eisenstein , and E . P . Xing , “ Document hierarchies from text and links , ” in Proceedings of the 21st international conference on World Wide Web , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 739–748 .
[ 13 ] R . Guha , R . McCool , and E . Miller , “ Semantic search , ” in Proceedings of the 12th international conference on World Wide Web , New York , NY , USA , 2003 , pp . 700–709 .
[ 14 ] Q . Guo and E . Agichtein , “ Beyond dwell time : estimating document relevance from cursor movements and other postclick searcher behavior , ” in Proceedings of the 21st international conference on World Wide Web , New York , NY , USA , 2012 , pp . 569–578 .
[ 15 ] R . W . White and J . Huang , “ Assessing the scenic route : measuring the value of search trails in web logs , ” in Proceedings of the 33rd international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval , New York , NY , USA , 2010 , pp . 587–594 .
[ 16 ] A . Singla , R . White , and J . Huang , “ Studying trailfinding algorithms for enhanced web search , ” in Proceedings of the 33rd international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval , New York , NY , USA , 2010 , pp . 443–450 .
[ 17 ] J . Kalbach , Designing Web navigation . Beijing ; Sebastopol :
1274
