Weaving a Safe Web of News
Kanak Biscuitwala* kanak@csstanfordedu
TJ Purtell* tpurtell@csstanfordedu Chris Haseman§ haseman@tumblr.com
Willem Bult* wbult@stanford.edu
Madeline KB Ross‡ mkr2132@columbia.edu Monica S . Lam* lam@csstanfordedu
Mathias Lécuyer† ml3302@columbia.edu
Augustin Chaintreau† augustin@cscolumbiaedu Susan E . McGregor‡ sem2196@columbia.edu
*Computer Science Department , Stanford University ‡Graduate School of Journalism , Columbia University
†Computer Science Department , Columbia University
§Tumblr , Inc .
“ Skype has gone from in the mid 2000s being the tool most widely used and promoted by human rights activists to now when people ask me I say , ‘Definitely , don’t use it,’ ”
– Ronald J . Deibert , cited in New York
Times 1 , November 30 , 2012
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The rise of social media and data capable mobile devices in recent years has transformed the face of global journalism , supplanting the broadcast news anchor with a new source for breaking news : the citizen reporter . Social media ’s decentralized networks and instant re broadcasting mechanisms mean that the reach of a single tweet can easily trump that of the most powerful broadcast satellite . Brief , text based and easy to translate , social messages allow news audiences to skip the middleman and get news “ straight from the source . ” Whether used by “ citizen ” or professional reporters , however , social media technologies can also pose risks that endanger these individuals and , by extension , the press as a whole . First , social media platforms are usually proprietary , leaving users’ data and activities on the system open to scrutiny by collaborating companies and/or governments . Second , the networks upon which social media reporting relies are inherently fragile , consisting of easily targeted devices and relatively centralized message routing systems that authorities may block or simply shut down . Finally , this same privileged access can be used to flood the network with inaccurate or discrediting messages , drowning the signal of real events in misleading noise .
A citizen journalist can be anyone who is simply in the right place at the right time . Typically untrained and unevenly tech savvy , citizen reporters are unaccustomed to thinking of their social media activities as high risk , and may not consider the need to defend themselves against potential threats . Though often part of a crowd , they may have no formal affiliations ; if targeted for retaliation , they may have nowhere to turn for help . The dangers citizen journalists face are personal and physical . They may be
1In “ For Syria ’s Rebel Movement , Skype Is a Useful and Increasingly Dangerous Tool ” , by A . Chozick
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . targeted in the act of reporting , and/or online through the tracking of their digital communications . Addressing their needs for protection , resilience , and recognition requires a move away from the major assumptions of in vitro communication security . For citizen journalists using social networks , the adversary is already inside , as the network itself may be controlled or influenced by the threatening party , while “ outside ” nodes , such as public figures , protest organizers , and other journalists can be trusted to handle content appropriately . In these circumstances there can be no seamless , guaranteed solution . Yet the need remains for technologies that improve the security of these journalists who in many cases may constitute a region ’s only independent press .
In this paper , we argue that a comprehensive and collaborative effort is required to make publishing and interacting with news websites more secure . Journalists typically enjoy stronger legal protection at least in some countries , such as the United States . However , this protection may prove ineffective , as many online tools compromise source protection . In the remaining sections , we identify a set of discussion topics and challenges to encourage a broader research agenda aiming to address jointly the need for social features and security for citizens journalists and readers alike . We believe communication technologies should embrace the methods and possibilities of social news rather than treating this as a pure security problem . We briefly touch upon a related initiative , Dispatch , that focuses on providing security to citizen journalists for publisihing content .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C21 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : Network Architecture and Design ; J.7 [ Computer Applications ] : Computers in Other Systems—publishing
Keywords Mobile publishing ; Disconnection resilience
2 . THE WEB OF NEWS UNDER THREAT The current digital communication landscape is characterized by enormous potential and innumerable threats . Thanks to social media ’s substantial role in publicizing the events of the Arab Spring , the eventual overthrow of Egypt ’s government in 2011 was often referred to as the “ Facebook and Twitter revolution ” [ 21 ] , with pictures of protesters
849 TM 1
TM 2
TM 3
Figure 1 : Threats to citizen journalists , illustrated with three recent examples . ( TM 1 ) Surveillance : rise of government access to data stored on online media companies , self reported by Google on November 13th , ( TM 2 ) Disconnection : Internet black out in Syria , as reported by Akamai on November 29th , ( TM 3 ) Discredit : a 2009 Getty Stock picture , viral during Sandy , later identified as a fake report . thanking social media companies highly publicized even by traditional media outlets . Although the exact role of social media in the revolution itself is subject to debate [ 11 , 22 , 28 ] , its importance was credited by participants2 , and they were instrumental in increasing awareness and worldwide engagement [ 1 ] . What we will never know is how many individuals were tracked , targeted or discredited through these same social media channels .
We do know , however , that even in the US content contributors are at risk of being physically tracked through their digital communications3 . This is to say nothing of regimes where individuals may find their content filtered or blocked , or their reputation manipulated . These vulnerabilities are artifacts of the current architecture of networked communication and publishing platforms , including social media :
1 . Even in countries with strong privacy laws , the data hosted and published by service providers on users’ behalf is often exempt from protection . It is common for governments to ask companies like Google to turn over user data , and in many places including the US the current legal framework requires full compliance4 . In other cases , regimes can use network surveillance technologies to monitor traffic directly5 .
2 . Access to publishing platforms and social media can be easily disrupted by blacklisting circumvention tools like Tor and blocking access to certain servers . As seen in Egypt and Syria , regimes can choose in extreme cases to “ go dark , ” blocking all Internet traffic to the outside world . Even in the United States , targeted censorship of this style has been executed over small areas through strategic deployment of signal jammers6 .
2 “ When I asked the Islamist Jlassi why the revolution had not happened a decade earlier in Tunisia , he instantly answered , ‘Al Jazeera and the Internet were the differences , especially Al Jazeera everybody watches TV . ” ’ in Time , December 14 , 2011 3See T . Kary , “ Twitter Turns Over Wall Street Protester Posts Under Seal ” , Bloomberg , September 14 , 2012 4See D . Chou , “ Transparency Report : Government requests on the rise ” , Google Official Blog , November 13 , 2012 . 5See S . Stecklow , “ Special Report : How foreign firms tried to sell spy gear to Iran ” , Reuters , December 5 , 2012 6See M . Bell , “ BART San Francisco cut cell services to avert protest ” Washington Post , August 12 , 2011
3 . Influential entities can employ structured campaigns to discredit or bury unwanted messages , or even prevent initial publishing through threats or direct attacks . The power relationship between citizen journalists and corporate or government actors is highly asymmetric . Citizen journalists are unpaid , operating alone or in only loose coordination with others , while corporations and governments are organized and often well funded . Averting these attacks requires messaging to be both anonymous and authenticated .
Threat Model .
We identify three Threat Models ( TM ) that few , if any , current solutions fully address ( See recent examples in Figure 1 ) : TM 1 : Detect and Detain . In this model the adversary is seeking not disruption but information , by observing journalists’ communication or requesting their data . While certain kinds of data interception are not legal , the same ends can often be achieved through legal means ( such as subpoena ) , or simply by participating in the network directly . In all cases , adversaries can usually gather users’ personal information , and even physically track their movements . TM 2 : Filter and Disconnect . Here , the adversary is active and attempts to censor digital communication . While blocking transmissions to foreign servers or taking down the network entirely is feasible , it is costly and highly profile . A more common and insidious approach , then , it is to maintain some services , such as e commerce , while censoring undesirable messages . TM 3 : Pollute and Manipulate . In this last model , the adversary may flood the system with irrelevant or inaccurate information , either to overwhelm the transmission of legitimate messages , or to transmit a biased view of a situation . Alternatively , the adversary may pose as a citizen reporter and execute targeted attempts to discredit or defame a particular journalist .
3 . CHALLENGES
Assessing the Publishing Needs of Citizen Journalists . In theory , professional journalists can rely on their affiliated organization to provide them with some safety training and legal support . Realistically , newsrooms’ technical expertise is often limited , and cash strapped organizations must
850 rely more on freelancers of varying experience levels . As so much of today ’s essential journalism is being executed by citizen reporters , better protections from the current vulnerabilities of networked publishing platforms like social media are essential to preserving and promoting journalism worldwide . We believe these vulnerabilities can be credibly addressed and we identify at least three related areas of research :
1 . Creating and maintaining a pseudo anonymous presence that remains isolated from a physical identity . While this is a classic computer security problem , it remains a significant issue for users of platforms like Twitter and Facebook , which require users to maintain a single identity , often connected to personally identifiable data . Combined with proprietary mobile operating systems , it becomes easier every day for third parties to connect user data not just across the web , but to connect these activities to actual , physical devices [ 24 , 8 , 17 ] . Even the incomplete data about an individual obtained through social media can yield accurate details about that person ’s physical identity , even if it is meant to be private and secret [ 20 , 26 , 18 , 19 ] .
The most immediate challenge in this area is support the use of encryption schemes by improving their usability . Also , indirect information leaks should be insured against use as an attack vector against users .
2 . Building social media applications that are resilient to censorship and disconnection . Recent works [ 3 , 9 , 25 ] , including ours [ 23 , 6 ] , proved that one can deliver content between mobile phones efficiently with minimum or even nonexistent network support . Unfortunately , most of these protocols have either not been tested in practice [ 13 ] , or only within a friendly environment of cooperative nodes [ 4 ] .
3 . Developing systems to harness the power of the crowd and social networks to handle pollution and manipulation . Systems that protect identities are always vulnerable to pollution attacks through content injection and fake identities [ 7 ] . However , it has repeatedly been shown that properties of large systems can be used to detect manipulation [ 30 , 29 , 27 ] .
Through a combination of rate limiting and offline certification among trusted members , a system ’s tolerance for pollution can be reduced . The power of the crowd also can be used to moderate and verify user generated content [ 12 ] , as can the application of new distributed algorithms that leverage social properties [ 14 , 15 ] .
Building Tools for News Browsing .
In addition to mechanisms protecting citizen journalists as they produce source content for reporters , we believe that more work is needed to protect citizens as they browse and interact with news websites . Passive news consumption has now been replaced by active commenting on and sharing of news on digital platforms , often mediated by social media . These behaviors can generate risks for users , especially when third parties are involved and/or content is accessed from conflict regions . We identify the following opportunities :
1 . Encourage news websites to provide a “ safe browsing ” mode that protects against third party monitoring , in cluding that which could be disguised as advertising . These organizations could even help protect against content manipulation by leveraging a network of proxies . This can be facilitated through the reuse of recent work on anonymous and censorship resistant browsing .
2 . Allow users to protect their identities and control their data whenever they post comments or share stories online.Through platform specific trust relationships , users can provide meaningful endorsements or comments without disclosing de anonymizing information .
3 . Offer a service that would monitor users’ risk of deanonymization and inform them of identifying inferences that are possible based on the information they’ve shared . This would empower users to contribute news websites without fear of compromising their privacy .
4 . Provide a system that is censorship tolerant using techniques like [ 10 ] , to preventing filtering , and blocking of content . Likewise , Content Centric Networking [ 2 ] techniques that rely on user caching ( while preserving privacy [ 16 ] ) could offer data resilience in the case of legal filtering or denial of service attacks .
4 . DISPATCH : SAFE PUBLISHING
To encourage further research , we provide an example taken from our recent research : the Dispatch project7 already has an alpha iOS version that was used by journalism students reporting during US election night in New York . Dispatch offers a tool for citizen reporters to communicate and publish using authenticated pseudonyms . Using identity based encryption [ 5 ] , Dispatch messages are directly encrypted and authenticated by those pseudonyms , providing protection against data manipulation and interception . A citizen reporter with this app is able to publish text and images instantly to a blog or a private server if desired ; the pseudonym functions seamlessly across multiple social media platforms . Dispatch ’s routing system addresses messages solely based on hashed recipient pseudonyms , allowing its routing mechanism to be distributed . Leveraging identitybased routing , Dispatch features a disconnected mode that leverages wireless links between users to replicate information and combat service disruption based censorship . Dispatch is easy to deploy wherever secure communication between sources and journalists is needed . Field tests and presentations of the platform at leading journalism conferences have indicated strong demand for this type of secure , networked publishing and communication tools in the journalism community .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Dispatch is one of the inaugural recipients of a “ Magic Grant ” from the Brown Institute of Media Innovation . Our research is also supported in part by NSF Programmable Open Mobile Internet ( POMI ) 2020 Expedition Grant 0832820 and the Stanford MobiSocial Computing Laboratory .
7see http://dispatchappwpenginecom
851 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Aday , H . Farell , M . Lynch , J . Sides , and D . Freelon . Blogs and Bullet II : New Media and Conflict After the Arab Spring . Report to the United States Institute of Peace , 2012 .
[ 2 ] S . Arianfar , T . Koponen , B . Raghavan , and
S . Shenker . On preserving privacy in content oriented networks . In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Information centric networking , ICN ’11 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] A . Balasubramanian , B . N . Levine , and
A . Venkataramani . DTN routing as a resource allocation problem . In SIGCOMM ’07 : Proceedings of the 2007 conference on Applications , technologies , architectures , and protocols for computer communications , 2007 .
[ 4 ] N . Banerjee , M . Corner , D . Towsley , and B . N . Levine .
Relays , base stations , and meshes : enhancing mobile networks with infrastructure . MobiCom ’08 : Proceedings of the 14th ACM international conference on Mobile computing and networking , 2008 .
[ 5 ] D . Boneh and M . Franklin . Identity Based Encryption from the Weil Pairing . In CRYPTO 2001 , 2001 .
[ 6 ] A . Chaintreau , A . Mtibaa , L . Massouli´e , and C . Diot .
The diameter of opportunistic mobile networks . In CoNEXT ’07 : Proceedings of the 2007 ACM CoNEXT conference , 2007 .
[ 7 ] J . Douceur . The sybil attack . Peer to peer Systems ,
2002 .
[ 8 ] W . Enck , P . Gilbert , B G Chun , L . P . Cox , J . Jung ,
P . McDaniel , and A . N . Sheth . TaintDroid : An Information Flow Tracking System for Realtime PrivacyMonitoring on Smartphones . In Proceedings of OSDI , 2010 .
[ 9 ] K . Fall . A delay tolerant network architecture for challenged internets . Proceedings of the 2003 conference on Applications , 2003 .
[ 10 ] D . Fifield , N . Hardison , J . Ellithorpe , E . Stark ,
R . Dingledine , P . Porras , and D . Boneh . Evading Censorship with Browser Based Proxies . In Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium , pages 239–258 , Vigo , Spain , 2012 . Springer .
[ 11 ] L . Gawhry . Assessing the Impact of Social Media on the 25 January 2011 Egyptian Revolution . Naval Postgraduate school MA thesis . of the fifth ACM conference on Recommender systems , 2011 .
[ 16 ] T . Lauinger , T . Strufe , T . UniversitLt , N . Laoutaris ,
E . Biersack , P . Rodriguez , and E . Kirda . Privacy implications of ubiquitous caching in named data networking architectures . Technical Report TR iSecLab 0812 001 , iSecLab , 2012 .
[ 17 ] J . R . Mayer and J . C . Mitchell . Third Party Web
Tracking : Policy and Technology . Security and Privacy ( SP ) , 2012 IEEE Symposium on , 2012 .
[ 18 ] B . Meeder , B . Karrer , A . Sayedi , R . Ravi , C . Borgs , and J . Chayes . We know who you followed last summer : inferring social link creation times in twitter . In WWW ’11 : Proceedings of the 20th international conference on World wide web , 2011 .
[ 19 ] A . Mislove , B . Viswanath , K . Gummadi , and
P . Druschel . You are who you know : inferring user profiles in online social networks . Proceedings of the third ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , 2010 .
[ 20 ] A . Narayanan and V . Shmatikov . De anonymizing Social Networks . Security and Privacy , 2009 30th IEEE Symposium on , 2009 .
[ 21 ] J . Pollock . Streetbook . MIT Technology Review , 2011 . [ 22 ] J . Pollock . People Power 20 MIT Technology Review ,
2012 .
[ 23 ] J . Reich and A . Chaintreau . The age of impatience : optimal replication schemes for opportunistic networks . In CoNEXT ’09 : Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Emerging networking experiments and technologies , 2009 .
[ 24 ] F . Roesner , T . Kohno , and D . Wetherall . Detecting and defending against third party tracking on the web . In NSDI’12 : Proceedings of the 9th USENIX conference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation , 2012 .
[ 25 ] A . Seth , D . Kroeker , M . Zaharia , S . Guo , and
S . Keshav . Low cost communication for rural internet kiosks using mechanical backhaul . In MobiCom ’06 : Proceedings of the 12th annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking , 2006 .
[ 26 ] M . Srivatsa and M . Hicks . Deanonymizing Mobility
Traces : Using Social Networks as a Side Channel . CCS ’12 : Proceedings of the 19th ACM conference on Computer and communications security , 2012 .
[ 12 ] A . Ghosh and P . McAfee . Incentivizing high quality
[ 27 ] B . Viswanath , A . Post , K . Gummadi , and A . Mislove . user generated content . In WWW ’11 : Proceedings of the 20th international conference on World wide web , 2011 .
An analysis of social network based Sybil defenses . SIGCOMM ’10 : Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2010 conference on SIGCOMM , 2010 .
[ 13 ] D . Gunawardena , T . Karagiannis , A . Proutiere ,
[ 28 ] J . C . York . Beyond Streetbook . MIT Technology
E . Santos Neto , and M . Vojnovic . Scoop : decentralized and opportunistic multicasting of information streams . In MobiCom ’11 : Proceedings of the 17th annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking , 2011 .
[ 14 ] S . Ioannidis , A . Chaintreau , and L . Massouli´e .
Optimal and Scalable Distribution of Content Updates over a Mobile Social Network . INFOCOM 2009 , IEEE , 2009 .
[ 15 ] S . Isaacman , S . Ioannidis , A . Chaintreau , and
M . Martonosi . Distributed rating prediction in user generated content streams . In RecSys ’11 : Proceedings
Review , 2012 .
[ 29 ] H . Yu , P . Gibbons , M . Kaminsky , and F . Xiao .
SybilLimit : A near optimal social network defense against sybil attacks . IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking ( ToN ) , 18:885–898 , 2010 .
[ 30 ] H . Yu , M . Kaminsky , and P . Gibbons . SybilGuard : Defending against sybil attacks via social networks . IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking , 2008 .
852
