Political Hashtag Hijacking in the US
Asmelash Teka Hadgu
L3S Research Center Hannover , Germany teka@l3s.de
Kiran Garimella
Qatar Comput . Res . Inst . vgarimella@qforgqa
Doha , Qatar
Ingmar Weber
Qatar Comput . Res . Inst . ingmarweber@acm.org
Doha , Qatar
ABSTRACT We study the change in polarization of hashtags on Twitter over time and show that certain jumps in polarity are caused by “ hijackers ” engaged in a particular type of hashtag war .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services ; J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Sociology
Keywords political trends ; twitter ; political leaning classification ; partisanship
1 .
INTRODUCTION
On Twitter , hashtags are used to label tweets as being related to a particular topic . Through them , users join virtual debates and they are used to “ frame ” issues . Users from opposing political camps engage in political “ hashtag wars ” 1 to obtain control over the terms being used . Eg , the political right established “ obamacare ” as the standard expression for the Affordable Healthcare Act . On Twitter , the left fought back with hashtags such as #obamacares or #iloveobamacare . Given their importance , the use of hashtags related to politics has been studied before [ 1 , 3 ] . One important aspect which has not been studied , however , is the change of political polarization of hashtags over time . This helps campaign organizers to know when they are “ under attack ” and it helps citizens to know when a debate is dominated by political activists . We use retweets of labeled seed users , eg , @BarackObama , to obtain Twitter users with an inferred political orientation . By analyzing their hashtag usage we assign a leaning to hashtags and monitor this leaning over time . “ Change points ” with a sudden jump in leaning are identified and we show that they correspond to the activity of “ hashtag hijackers ” , whom we characterize in detail . The methodology in this work is generalizable to a multi party system , eg , UK
2 . METHODOLOGY
The methodology to assign a leaning to hashtags is identical to [ 5 ] and similar to [ 1 ] . It is summarized as follows . We start with a set of 14/19 seed users for the left/right respectively . We then get all their public tweets and look at all people retweeting them . Retweeting users are then filtered for US locations in their profiles using Yahoo! Placemaker and assigned a ( fractional ) leaning according to which side they retweet more . We validated this leaning against wefollow.com , twellow.com and persecuting .
1politi.co/MILaI5
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . us . A user contributes fractionally to each leaning . The ( mis)classification accuracy is then weighted by this fraction . When comparing against Persecuting , both our labels and the ground truth are weighted and cases “ close to the middle ” contribute less . The accuracies are 98.6 % , 93 % and 90.4 % respectively . For the labeled users their tweets are obtained and scanned for hashtags . Apolitical hashtags are removed by looking at co occurrence with a set of seed political hashtags such as #obama or #tcot . A leaning with respect to a party p is then assigned to hasthag h in week w according to Lean(h , w , p ) = ( vp ) . Here vp deVp
)/(
+ 2∗|P|
+ 2 vp Vp notes the aggregated user volume of a fixed ( h , w ) pair for a party p , Vp denotes the total user volume of all hashtags in w for p , and |P| is the number of parties , two in our setting . The definition of Lean(h , w , p ) is a volume based voting approach where ( i ) within a given week each party is given the same weight , and ( ii ) a regularization term reduces extreme leaning values for low volumes . User volumes , rather than tweet volumes , are used as they are more robust against a small number of outlier users .
Vp
P
P
Vp
P
3 . DETECTION OF CHANGE POINTS
Figure 1 : An example of a consistently right leaning hashtag on the left , a left jumping towards right hashtag on the right . Identified change points are highlighted in green .
Figure 1 shows an example of a hashtag with sudden changes in leaning . We will refer to such outliers as change points . We restrict our focus to change points corresponding both to ( i ) upwards jumps and ( ii ) cases where the party is “ usually inactive ” , meaning an average leaning across all weeks of < 1/2 . These interesting cases are directly caused by an unusually high level of hashtag usage by a given leaning , rather than by the absence thereof . Note that the set of change points depends on the leaning under consideration . To detect change points , we tried different algorithms [ 2 ] against a rule based heuristics . In the end , we used the following rule based approach as it gave the most consistent results .
1 . Total_number_of_weeks >= 4 2 . Change_from_previous_week > std 3 . Change_from_previous_week > 0.20 4 . Current_value − Average_value > std
55 p∈P
These rules are only applied to ( hashtag , leaning ) pairs where the hashtag , averaged across all weeks , has an average leaning of < 1/2 . If the leaning value of a hashtag at a given week meets all the criteria it is marked as a “ change point ” . The set of change points ( = ( h , w ) pairs ) identified is denoted by CP where this set depends on the leaning under consideration . 4 . ANALYSIS OF CHANGE POINTS ties assign to the hashtag . It is defined as NV =
To quantify how change points differ , we computed a number of features . First , a “ normalized volume ” capturing the focus all parf ( h,w)p f ( ∗,w)p . Second , the normalized volume for only the leaning at hand , ie , NVL = f ( h,w)p f ( ∗,w)p . Third , a volume based trending score TS as defined in [ 4 ] . Fourth , the ratio of the week indices , starting from 1 and only covering weeks where the hashtag was present . Fifth and sixth again the combined normalized volume and the with leaning normalized volume . The first three features are computed in a micro average manner , where hashtags with more ( non )change points contribute more . The last three were computed as macroaverages for the sets of 2447/2551 hashtags with at least one change point for the left/right respectively , where each hashtag with a change point contributes the same . For the first three , we performed Student t tests to check if the feature values differ for ( h , w ) pairs that are change points ( *_cp ) from those that are not ( *_ncp ) . We first used a Fisher ’s F Test to test for equality of variance and then used the appropriate unpaired t test . In all the cases , the tests show statistically significant results with p < 001 The results tell the following narrative . First , change points happen for low volume , untrending weeks . This makes sense as high volume hashtags such as #tcot would be hard to hijack . When , however , only hashtags with change points are considered the volume is slightly higher than for the non change points and , in particular , the hijacking side puts in about 5 8 times its usual ( normalized ) volume . Finally , change points do not occur sooner or later than non change points as the index ratio is close to 10
NVL
( cp/ncp )
TS
NV
1.52 1.08
1.01 1.05
( cp/ncp ) index ( cp/ncp )
NV x1000 NVL x1000 cp / ncp .92 / 1.55 .71 / 1.56 cp / ncp .48 / .77 .41 / .78 cp / ncp 3.55 / 4.52 3.53 / 4.52
Lean . Left 4.59 Right 7.71 Table 1 : Hypothesis test for features computed on hashtags from each party separately . There were 2,827 change points jumping “ left wards ” and 3,094 “ right wards ” out of a total of 133,907 ( h , w ) pairs . The last three columns are macroaverages for the 2447/2551 hashtags h with at least on change point for the left/right . 5 . ANALYSIS OF HIJACKERS
In this section , we dig deeper and ( i ) identify “ hashtag hijackers ” active in change points and ( ii ) give basic characteristics about their Twitter usage . We first identified ( h , w ) pairs as being change points as previously described . Next , for such ( h , w ) pairs , we looked at users from the “ other leaning ” ( compared to h ’s overall normal leaning ) using h in week w and looked at their usage frequencies of h during that week . A user was awarded a “ hijacker point ” if the user used h during a change point . Then , we ranked users according to the number of hijacker points they collected for all identified change points and considered the top 1,000 users for each leaning . To give a qualitative impression of how these hijackers differ from normal users , Figure 2 shows term clouds for the four sets of user profiles ( left vs . right and normal vs . hijacker ) . Hijacking users can be seen to use party related terms more often . To find general differences between hashtag hijackers and “ normal ” users , we looked at their respective ( i ) number of tweets , the fraction of ( ii ) retweets in general and ( iii ) of seed users in particular , and the number of ( iv ) their followers and ( v ) users they are following . All of those statistics ( Table 2 ) indicate that hashtag hijackers are more active than other politically interested users .
Figure 2 : Clouds of terms used in profiles . Left users on top , right users on the bottom ; normal users on the left , hijackers on the right . leaning set fol retw . tweets seed folretw . wers wing frac.∗ avg . lean n 4544 12.8 % 0.6 % 1554 573 11.3 % 9.6 % 0.81 h 13620 7.6 % 0.2 % 2176 1268 27.1 % 22.4 % 0.97 n 3928 13.7 % 1.3 % 1291 684 10.8 % 22.0 % 0.74 h 17306 11.6 % 0.3 % 5930 1969 21.4 % 32.2 % 0.95 focus
L
R
Table 2 : Comparison of basic statistics for the top hashtag hijackers per leaning against all users from the corresponding leaning . The ‘n’ indicates normal users and ‘h’ indicates hijackers . ∗ – fraction of tweets containing political hashtags .
However , this could be explained by the fact that we rank users by their number of hijacking points , thereby creating a bias towards more active users . To rule out this explanation , we computed the ( i ) focus of a user ’s activity during change points as the fraction of a user ’s hashtag volume that occurs during change points , ( ii ) fraction of tweets by these users containing political hashtags , ( iii ) average leaning of these users . All these three features are consistently higher for hijackers , giving evidence for a non random , conscious decision . 6 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We presented a study of temporal hashtag polarization for the US on Twitter . We focused on “ change points ” where sudden jumps in political leaning happen and showed that such jumps correspond to activity by “ hashtag hijackers ” – highly active and politicized users . This hijacking , a special form of hashtag wars , tends to happens for low volume hashtags which are more vulnerable .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Conover , J . Ratkiewicz , M . Francisco , B . Goncalves ,
A . Flammini , and F . Menczer . Political polarization on twitter . In ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] V . Hodge and J . Austin . A survey of outlier detection methodologies . Artificial Intelligence Review , 22(2 ) , 2004 . [ 3 ] D . M . Romero , B . Meeder , and J . Kleinberg . Differences in the mechanics of information diffusion across topics : idioms , political hashtags , and complex contagion on twitter . In WWW , 2011 .
[ 4 ] I . Subasic and C . Castillo . The effects of query bursts on web search . In WI , 2010 .
[ 5 ] I . Weber , V . R . K . Garimella , and A . Teka . Political hashtag trends . In ECIR Demo , 2013 . politicalhashtagtrendssandboxyahoocom
56
