Spanish Knowledge Base Generation for Polarity
Classification from Masses
∗
Arturo Montejo Ráez
Computer Science
Department
University of Jaén
23071 Jaén
Spain amontejo@ujaen.es José M . Perea Ortega
Computer Science
Department
University of Jaén
23071 Jaén
Spain jmperea@ujaen.es
Manuel C . Díaz Galiano
Computer Science
Department
University of Jaén
23071 Jaén
Spain mcdiaz@ujaen.es
L . Alfonso Ureña López
Computer Science
Department
University of Jaén
23071 Jaén
Spain laurena@ujaen.es
ABSTRACT This work presents a novel method for the generation of a knowledge base oriented to Sentiment Analysis from the continuous stream of published micro blogs in social media services like Twitter . The method is simple in its approach and has shown to be effective compared to other knowledge based methods for Polarity Classification . Due to independence from language , the method has been tested on different Spanish corpora , with a minimal effort in the lexical resources involved . Although for two of the three studied corpora the obtained results did not improve those officially obtained on the same corpora , it should be noted that this is an unsupervised approach and the accuracy levels achieved were close to those levels obtained with well known supervised algorithms .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 [ Content Analysis and Indexing ] : Linguistic processing
General Terms Social media , Knowledge base generation , Sentiment Analysis , Polarity Classification
Keywords ACM proceedings , LATEX , text tagging 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Nowadays the World Wide Web is a vast information resource where people tend to disclose their opinions and sen∗
Referring author
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . timents . For example , many protests , criticisms or organized activities are planned using Facebook , Twitter and even blogs . Opinions on various topics can be expressed in unstructured documents , reviews , posts , comments , etc . Tackling and tracking this huge unstructured information in order to detect its polarity is attracting many researchers in the field of text mining .
Two main types of information can be found on the Internet : facts and opinions . Although there are lots of issues to be resolved , the management of factual information has been extensively studied . However , the automatic processing of textual opinions is a new task closely related to text mining , which has just started to be studied . This is a challenging task known as Opinion Mining ( OM ) , sometimes also called Sentiment Analysis ( SA ) [ 25 ] . This new discipline aims to identify and analyze opinions and emotions . It includes several sub tasks such as subjectivity detection , polarity classification , review summarization , humor detection or emotion classification , among others . Specifically , sentiment classification or polarity detection is an opinion mining activity oriented to determine which is the overall sentimentorientation of the opinions contained within a given document [ 26 ] . The document is supposed to contain subjective information such as product reviews or opinionated posts in blogs .
This paper introduces a novel approach in the generation of knowledge resources for Sentiment Analysis by crawling the vast flow of micro texts published in social media every second . By filtering an small ( but yet a huge ) part of these streams and categorizing them semi automatically , we have been able to produce a resource for Polarity Classification with little human intervention . The idea behind could be summarized as “ Let the crowd help you to know about the crowd ” . Thus , by crawling tweets and categorizing them in basis of simple regular expressions similar to Me siento X ( I feel like X we can built automatically a big collection of data , as explained later . In this way , we categorize tweets by means of tweets , resulting in a promising method for many other problems and in a knowledge base generation
571 in constant evolution thanks to the ever lasting stream of posts .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows : the next section presents work related to polarity detection dealing with languages other than English and multilingual opinion mining . Section 3 describes the procedure followed to generate the corpus proposed in this study , along with its main features . Section 4 describes the different resources used in our experiments , as well as the corpora employed for comparison purposes . Section 5 describes the polarity classification approach proposed in this study . The different experiments carried out and the results obtained are expounded in Section 6 , also showing the comparison with other works . Finally , the main conclusions and ideas for further work are detailed in Section 7 .
2 . BACKGROUND
Although Opinion Mining ( OM ) is a relatively new discipline , there is a considerable number of research works on this subject . A good review on Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis can be found in [ 25 ] . This work describes some useful resources and tools for OM and also comments the main contributions in this field . Although different approaches have been applied in the field of sentiment polarity classification , the mainstream basically consists of two major methodologies : supervised and unsupervised approaches . On the one hand the supervised approach is based on using a collection of data to train the classifiers [ 26 ] . On the other hand , the unsupervised approach , also known as Semantic Orientation ( SO ) approach , does not need prior training , but it takes into account the orientation of words , positive or negative [ 31 ] . Both methodologies have their advantages and drawbacks . For example , the supervised approach requires training data , which in many cases are impossible or difficult to achieve , partially due to the novelty of the task or even the language used . In opposition , the unsupervised approach requires having lots of linguistic resources which generally depend on the language .
Language resources for natural language processing are very valuable . The construction and generation of such resources is a hard work that may take several years and a significant investment . Knowledge bases like WordNet [ 13 ] , WordNet Affect [ 32 ] or SenticNet [ 6 ] have been found to be useful in many problems [ 18 ] , although their cover range on other languages is far from its original language ( English ) , ranging from the well known EuroWordNet lexical database [ 33 ] to adaptations to non covered languages , like Chinese [ 9 ] and more recent studies in other languages [ 21 ] .
In Sentiment Analysis , the use of lexical databases has motivated intensive research work during past years [ 27 , 3 ] , with some relevant resources like SentiWordNet [ 2 ] . Again , resources on other languages and domains ( informal and subjective texts ) are difficult to obtain , so new ways of exploring how to represent textual streams with the knowledge implicit in the stream itself are rising [ 36 ] .
The language used in social media is distant from formal language used in press and other controlled sources . People express their states in many ways , using a rich jargon and compressed forms ( abbreviations ) , being Twitter the main example of this type of communication and broadcasting [ 19 ] . Thus , a normalization process must be performed in order to apply traditional language resources . These resources expect a proper grammar and vocabulary , so its ef fectiveness is seriously affected by the challenging style of writing in micro blogs [ 16 ] .
In any case , the stream of texts provided every second by Twitter must be taking as a valuable resource by itself . In fact , Twitter has been found to be very useful in many scenarios , like real time Recommender Systems [ 11 ] , cinema revenue prediction [ 1 ] or even crime prediction [ 34 ] , among others . In Sentiment Analysis , Twitter has gain a prominent role [ 22 ] , and nowadays is the subject of a very active research community . 2.1 Generating a resource from massive infor mation
The generation of resources for sentiment analysis is not new , and is still of interest due to the lack of non English knowledge bases or lexicons . Banea et al . proposed a method for generating these kind of resources from existing ones [ 5 ] . Their concerns were similar to ours , but we even try to not suposse initial “ seed words ” or starting set of emotional terms . Our hypothesis is that , despite the variety and uncontrolled vocabulary of tweets , the volume of the stream is big enough to consider that controlled filters on released posts can lead to a rough corpus whose utility will depend on the nature and focus of the filters applied . This hypothesis is similar to that of Google Flue Trends1 , which dives into people searches across time in order to monitor disease outbreaks , like flue [ 14 , 12 , 8 ] . In general , the realtime analysis of streaming texts is of growing interest to many entities , like governments and companies and some interesting and visual solutions are appearing [ 17 ] . The use of the micro blogging web as a source for social monitoring is the goal of many projects nowadays [ 10 ] , and numerous tools appear every day [ 29 ] .
Following the line drawn by previous works where texts are not directly processed but projected to a different conceptual ( or emotional ) space [ 7 ] , our approach proposes to create a vector of emotions ( ie a emotional indexing of tweets ) by performing a search with the tweet as a query over a self generated corpus .
3 . MESIENTO : AN EVOLVING SPANISH CORPUS FOR SENTIMENT INDEXING In this section we present the MeSiento corpus , a new Spanish resource made available to the scientific community2 that can be used in polarity classification tasks for Spanish opinions . Firstly , we explain the procedure followed for generating this corpus . Then , main statistics of the corpus are shown .
A similar approach to Kamvar and Harris [ 20 ] has been followed to generate the MeSiento corpus but only using Spanish tweets . The WeFeelFine 3 resource served under the Open Linked Data project4 was found useful for polarity classification in English [ 24 ] . Instead of translating this or other resources , we have generated our one from Spanish micro blog posts , by retrieving those Spanish tweets that contain the words “ me siento ” ( I feel ) . This procedure can be considered a streaming method for knowledge base
1 http://wwwgoogleorg/flutrends 2MeSiento is freely available by contacting the authors 3http://wefeelfine.org 4 http://linkeddata.org/
572 Figure 1 : Steps followed to generate the MeSiento corpus generation in polarity classification using social media such as Twitter . The tweets were retrieved during 35 days , between December 2012 and January 2013 , collecting a total of 1,863,758 tweets . Figure 1 illustrates the approach carried out to generate the MeSiento corpus , which is explained in detail below .
The Twitter API5 has been used to retrieve all the tweets containing the words “ me siento ” from the continuous stream of posts . This process was launched every 10 minutes and 1,500 tweets were retrieved approximately . Then , those tweets without sentiment information were discarded . This sentiment information was established taking into account the words that appear close to the expression “ me siento ” , so we tried to detect two types of expressions : “ me siento X ” or “ que X me siento ” . The words retrieved within these expressions were labeled depending on whether appearing before or after the expression . Stop words were also discarded in order to detect comparison sentences such as “ me siento como un X ” ( I feel like X ) or “ me siento tan X ” ( I feel so X ) . The stop word list used was composed of these words : al|algo|bastante|como|con|de|del|el|en|hasta| la|las|ms|mas|menos|mucho|muy|para|poco| re|tan|un|una|uno .
If after removing these stop words no word was detected , then we discarded that tweet because we considered that did not contain sentiment information . Finally , the remaining tweets along with the sentiment words detected were stored in a database .
In the second phase we carried out a word unification process . Most of the words detected as sentiment words ( or feelings ) were adjectives , appearing sometimes with different gender ( male or female ) , eg “ bueno ” and “ buena ” ( good ) . For this reason we performed a manual process to unify similar words but with different gender . In a first step , we selected about 600 most frequent words . Then , the
5 https://devtwittercom/docs/api/11 unified form from the male form was manually assigned to the sentiment word , or the same word if the gender of the sentiment word was neutral , eg “ antinatural ” ( unnatural ) , “ bien ” ( well ) or “ mal ” ( wrong ) . Besides , if some sentiment word was misspelled but it was frequent then its unified form was also assigned , eg for the word “ maaaaaal ” its unified form was “ mal ” . All pairs unified form sentiment word were also stored in the database .
Finally , a sentiment assignment process was manually performed by us ( with fully agreement among three annotators ) , by establishing a positive , negative or neutral sentiment to each unified form . We also discarded those unified forms that could be considered as non sentiment words , such as word in non Spanish language ( alone , crazy ) . This is the only work that needs human intervention , though the effort is minimal ( the extracted emotions were labeled in less than ten minutes ) .
The MeSiento corpus was analyzed while it was being generated . From the total of 1,863,758 tweets collected , 1,516,184 tweets were not a retweet ( RT ) . The number of sentiment words selected was 201 , of which 84 were considered as positive and 117 as negative . The total number of different unified forms was 344 , while the total number of different words ( positive + negative + neutral ) was 538 . Figure 2 shows the number of tweets retrieved per hours .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL FRAMEWORK
This section describes the tools employed during the generation of the MeSiento corpus , along with the main measure used to evaluate the experiments . Then , we present other corpora used to compare the performance of the proposed corpus .
Regarding the evaluation , we have used Accuracy ( Acc ) as one of the traditional measures employed in text classification ( 1 ) . Accuracy combines both precision and recall , calculating the proportion of true results ( both true positives and true negatives)[28 ] . In Equation 1 , TP ( True Positives ) are those positive assessments that were correct and
573 4.2 The Martínez Cámara et al . corpus of
Spanish tweets
Mart´ınez C´amara et al . [ 23 ] generated a corpus of tweets in Spanish by using the Twitter Search API8 . This API allows you to set the language of the retrieved tweets , so the authors used Spanish for collecting the tweets . The authors make use of the emoticons that some users include in their tweets in order to retrieve those tweets expressing opinions or sentiments . They consider as positive those tweets that contain a positive emoticon like “ : ) ” , and as negative those tweets that contain a negative emoticon like “ :( ” . All the tweets were processed by discarding some specific features of Twitter such as retweets , mentions to other Twitter users , web links or hashtags . Finally , the corpus is composed of 34,634 tweets , of which 17,317 are considered as positive and the other 17,317 are considered as negative . 4.3 The TASS 2012 corpus
The SEPLN ( Sociedad Espa˜nola para el Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural ) organization held annually a conference where relevant works related to the Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) field are presented . In the SEPLN 2012 conference , a new workshop on sentiment analysis called TASS ( Taller de An´alisis de Sentimientos de la SEPLN ) was held . The organizers of this workshop provided a corpus of 70,000 tweets written in Spanish , by nearly 200 well known personalities and celebrities of the world of politics , economy , communication , mass media and culture , collected between November 2011 and March 2012 . These tweets were retrieved from users with a diverse nationality , including people from Spain , Mexico , Colombia , Puerto Rico , USA and many other countries , reaching therefore a global coverage in the Spanish speaking world . Detailed information about this corpus is available on the TASS 2012 web site 9 .
5 . POLARITY CLASSIFICATION
APPROACH
The main idea behind it is to represent each tweet to be classified as a ranked vector of feelings . Then , a final polarity value is calculated from this vector . To this end , we have generated a collection of 200 documents , corresponding to the most frequent feelings collected . Thus , for each feeling , there exists a document containing thousands of tweets . These documents are indexed for further retrieval using the Lucene10 engine ( version 361 with its default configuration ) , as shown in Figure 3 .
Once the index is generated , we take each tweet as a query and send it to the search engine , retrieving the closest feelings . Finally , from the ranked list of feelings , the final polarity of the tweet is computed based on the polarity value manually assigned to each feeling . The only parameter that has to be specified is the number of results to be used before averaging , which determines the number of feelings to be taken into account when computing the polarity according to one of the two possible equations defined below . For our experiments , this value has been set to 100 . The polarity classification process is graphically shown in Figure 4 .
8
9
10 http://devtwittercom/doc/get/search http://wwwdaedaluses/TASS/corpusphp http://luceneapacheorg
Figure 2 : Number of tweets retrieved per hours
TN ( True Negatives ) are those negative assignments that were also considered negative in by the gold rule .
Acc =
T P + T N totalassignments
( 1 )
Finally , in order to verify the performance of the proposed corpus regarding the polarity classification task , we decided to compare it with three different Spanish corpora expressing opinions and sentiments : the Spanish SFU Review corpus , the Mart´ınez C´amara et al . corpus of Spanish tweets and the TASS 2012 corpus . 4.1 The Spanish SFU Review corpus
The SFU Review corpus [ 30 ] was firstly generated by collecting reviews from the Epinions web site6 . They applied the Brill ’s tagger in order to extract only the adjectives found in each review . Then , some adjectives were discarded such as determiner like adjectives ( previous , other ) or adjectives that had very low hits after a web search ( misspelled adjectives , novel compounds , eg , hypersexual , club ready , head knodding , etc ) The reviews are divided in eight categories ( books , cars , computers , cookware , hotels , movies , music and phones ) , with 25 positive and 25 negative reviews in each category . The classification into positive and negative was based on the “ recommended ” or “ not recommended ” tag that the reviewer provided .
After the SFU Review corpus in English the authors generated its Spanish parallel version , providing a corpus composed of 400 reviews also divided in eight categories : cars , hotels , washing machines , books , cell phones , music , computers , and movies . Each category contains 50 positive and 50 negative reviews , defined as positive or negative based on the number of stars given by the reviewer ( 1 2=negative ; 4 5=positive ; 3 star review are not included ) . These reviews were collected from the Ciao web site7 . 6
7 http://wwwepinionscom http://wwwciaoes
574 6 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
Several experiments have been accomplished in order to evaluate the MeSiento corpus as a knowledge base for Polarity Classification . In our experiments , binary decisions are for the first two data sets , that is , the system only categorizes between positive or negative , without neutral choice . For the TASS corpus , a 3 class ( including neutral choice ) is taken into account in the final accuracy measurement , to enable comparison with TASS official results . The accuracy values obtained on each of the three studied corpora are shown in Table 1 .
Test data Accuracy Classes
Spanish SFU Review Mart´ınez C´amara et al . TASS 2012
68.25 % 64.86 % 41,04 %
2 class 2 class 3 class
Table 1 : Accuracy values obtained for each corpora studied by applying the proposed method
Test data Accuracy Classes
Spanish SFU Review Mart´ınez C´amara et al . TASS 2012
65.00 % 74.27 % 50,24 %
2 class 2 class 3 class
Table 2 : Comparison with other works
Table 2 shows the results officially obtained by the authors or participants for each of the three studied corpora , in order to establish a feasible comparison . Should be noted that for the official TASS result we have calculated the average value of accuracy between all the participants . As can be seen in Table 2 , the results obtained using the proposed method are promising . Regarding the SFU Review corpus , our approach improves 5 % the average result obtained by Taboada and Grieve . However , as regards the other two corpora , no improvement was achieved but the low difference obtained encourages us to continue working in this direction .
7 . CONCLUSIONS AND FURTHER WORK The system proposed can be considered a first attempt in Spanish polarity classification with little effort in the way that tweets are extracted and processed . The obtained results look promising and motivate us to continue the exploration of this approach , but many issues remain opened , like lexical normalization , so informal expressions could be better conflated [ 15 ] , jargon properly represented , and emoticons also considered . Besides , testing on other languages , filtering of the indexed tweets by means of term to class association measures ( eg Log Likelihood Ratio ) , or negation treatment [ 35 ] , among other questions .
Although the results obtained are not the best compared to those obtained on the same corpora tested , it should be noted that this is an unsupervised approach and , despite this , the accuracy levels achieved are close to those levels obtained with well known supervised algorithms . Besides , the language independence shown by the method can be interesting in those domains where resources in certain languages are not always available . Therefore , we plan to make available this corpus and the ones to come in other languages
Figure 3 : Indexing process
Figure 4 : Classification process
The Ranking Status Value ( RSV ) computed by Lucene is also considered when computing the final polarity . By using this ranking value ( which reflects a distance between the query tweet and a feeling ) , we can perform a weighted summatory . Therefore , the polarity proposed formula is defined as follows : p(t ) =
. r∈R
1|R|
RSVr · lr
( 2 ) where • p(t ) is the polarity of tweet t • R is the list of retrieved feelings • lr is the polarity label of feeling r • RSVr is the RSV of the feeling according to Lucene ’s ranking method
575 under the Open Linked Data project , by means of a REpresentational State Transfer ( REST ) API .
Another main drawback ( though small in terms of effort ) is the manual annotation of most frequent emotion extracted in order to create the index . Anyhow , additional resources could be used here , like translated versions of SentiWordNet [ 2 ] or other concept based indexes , like SenticNet [ 6 ] . The latter approach ( built on top of other linguistic resources ) also suggests a way to both data cleansing and conceptual expansion of the collected information that may lead to most effective indexing . The representation of emotions beyond the classical positive negative dimension is also under study , by modeling the extracted emotions into the four dimensions proposed by the Hourglass of Emotions [ 7 ] .
We plan to refine the extraction method of feeling related tweets , always with this independence as main goal , and to test it with other corpora . Current approaches on Multilingual Sentiment Analysis [ 4 ] rely on the translation of lexicons or resources . In our case , a crawler of emotional publications by means of simple regular expression matching would allow us to target any other languages .
Finally , to perform a better comparison of our system with current solutions , supervised and unsupervised state of theart methods should be applied on the same tested data sets .
8 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This study has been partially supported by a grant from the Fondo Europeo de Desarrollo Regional ( FEDER ) , TEXTCOOL 2.0 project ( TIN2009 13391 C04 02 ) , ATTOS project ( TIN2012 38536 C03 0 ) from the Spanish Government . Also , this study is partially funded by the European Commission under the Seventh ( FP7 2007 2013 ) Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development through the FIRST project ( FP7 287607 ) . This publication reflects the views only of the authors , and the Commission cannot be held responsible for any use which may be made of the information contained therein .
9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Asur and B . A . Huberman . Predicting the future with social media . CoRR , abs/1003.5699 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] S . Baccianella , A . Esuli , and F . Sebastiani .
Sentiwordnet 3.0 : An enhanced lexical resource for sentiment analysis and opinion mining . In N . C . C . Chair ) , K . Choukri , B . Maegaard , J . Mariani , J . Odijk , S . Piperidis , M . Rosner , and D . Tapias , editors , Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC’10 ) , Valletta , Malta , may 2010 . European Language Resources Association ( ELRA ) .
[ 3 ] A . Balahur , J . M . Hermida , and A . Montoyo . Building and exploiting emotinet , a knowledge base for emotion detection based on the appraisal theory model . IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing , 3(1):88–101 , 2012 .
[ 4 ] A . Balahur and M . Turchi . Multilingual sentiment analysis using machine translation ? WASSA 2012 , page 52 , 2012 .
[ 5 ] C . Banea , R . Mihalcea , and J . Wiebe . A bootstrapping method for building subjectivity lexicons for languages with scarce resources . In LREC’08 , pages –1–1 , 2008 .
[ 6 ] E . Cambria , C . Havasi , and A . Hussain . Senticnet 2 : A semantic and affective resource for opinion mining and sentiment analysis . In FLAIRS Conference , 2012 .
[ 7 ] E . Cambria , A . Livingstone , and A . Hussain . The hourglass of emotions . In A . Esposito , A . Esposito , A . Vinciarelli , R . Hoffmann , and V . M¨uller , editors , Cognitive Behavioural Systems , volume 7403 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 144–157 . Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 2012 .
[ 8 ] H . A . Carneiro and E . Mylonakis . Google trends : a web based tool for real time surveillance of disease outbreaks . Clinical infectious diseases , 49(10):1557–1564 , 2009 .
[ 9 ] H H Chen , C C Lin , and W C Lin . Building a chinese english wordnet for translingual applications . 1(2):103–122 , June 2002 .
[ 10 ] M . Cheong , S . Ray , and D . Green . Large scale socio demographic pattern discovery on microblog metadata . In Intelligent Systems Design and Applications ( ISDA ) , 2012 12th International Conference on , pages 909 –914 , nov . 2012 .
[ 11 ] G . De Francisci Morales , A . Gionis , and C . Lucchese .
From chatter to headlines : harnessing the real time web for personalized news recommendation . In Proceedings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , WSDM ’12 , pages 153–162 , New York , NY , USA , 2012 . ACM .
[ 12 ] A . F . Dugas , Y H Hsieh , S . R . Levin , J . M . Pines , D . P . Mareiniss , A . Mohareb , C . A . Gaydos , T . M . Perl , and R . E . Rothman . Google flu trends : Correlation with emergency department influenza rates and crowding metrics . Clinical Infectious Diseases , 54(4):463–469 , 2012 .
[ 13 ] C . Fellbaum , editor . WordNet : An Electronic Lexical
Database . MIT Press , Cambridge , MA , 1998 .
[ 14 ] J . Ginsberg , M . H . Mohebbi , R . S . Patel , L . Brammer ,
M . S . Smolinski , and L . Brilliant . Detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data . Nature , 457(7232):1012–1014 , Nov . 2008 .
[ 15 ] B . Han and T . Baldwin . Lexical normalisation of short text messages : Makn sens a# twitter . In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , volume 1 , pages 368–378 , 2011 .
[ 16 ] B . Han , P . Cook , and T . Baldwin . Lexical normalization for social media text . ACM Trans . Intell . Syst . Technol . , 4(1):5:1–5:27 , Feb . 2013 . [ 17 ] M . Hao , C . Rohrdantz , H . Janetzko , U . Dayal ,
D . Keim , L . Haug , and M C Hsu . Visual sentiment analysis on twitter data streams . In Visual Analytics Science and Technology ( VAST ) , 2011 IEEE Conference on , pages 277–278 , 2011 .
[ 18 ] G . G . Heredero , S . Bandyopadhyay , and A . Laha . Extraction of contextual information from medical case research report using wordnet . In Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACM Bangalore Conference , COMPUTE ’11 , pages 13:1–13:8 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
[ 19 ] A . Java , X . Song , T . Finin , and B . Tseng . Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and
576 social network analysis , WebKDD/SNA KDD ’07 , pages 56–65 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
[ 20 ] S . D . Kamvar and J . Harris . We feel fine and searching the emotional web . In Proceedings of the fourth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , WSDM ’11 , pages 117–126 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
[ 21 ] A . Lohk , K . Vare , and L . V˜ohandu . First steps in checking and comparing princeton wordnet and estonian wordnet . In Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH , EACL 2012 , pages 25–29 , Stroudsburg , PA , USA , 2012 . Association for Computational Linguistics .
[ 22 ] E . Mart´ınez C´amara , M . T . Mart´ın Valdivia , L . A .
Ure˜na L´opez , and A . Montejo R´aez . Sentiment analysis in twitter . Natural Language Engineering , FirstView:1–28 , 1 2013 .
[ 29 ] I . Stavrakantonakis , A E Gagiu , H . Kasper , I . Toma , and A . Thalhammer . An approach for evaluation of social media monitoring tools . Common Value Management , pages 52–64 , 2012 .
[ 30 ] M . Taboada and J . Grieve . Analyzing appraisal automatically . In Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium on Exploring Attitude and Affect in Text , 2004 .
[ 31 ] P . D . Turney . Thumbs Up or Thumbs Down ?
Semantic Orientation Applied to Unsupervised Classification of Reviews . In ACL , pages 417–424 . ACL , 2002 .
[ 32 ] R . Valitutti . Wordnet affect : an affective extension of wordnet . In In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation , pages 1083–1086 , 2004 .
[ 33 ] P . Vossen . EuroWordNet : a multilingual database with
[ 23 ] E . Mart´ınez C´amara , M . A . Garc´ıa Cumbreras , M . T . lexical semantic networks . Kluwer Academic , 1998 .
Mart´ın Valdivia , and L . A . Ure˜na L´opez . Detecting polarity in Spanish tweets . Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural , 47 , 2011 .
[ 24 ] A . Montejo R´aez . Wefeelfine as resource for unsupervised polarity classification . Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural , 50 , 2013 .
[ 34 ] X . Wang , M . S . Gerber , and D . E . Brown . Automatic crime prediction using events extracted from twitter posts . In Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Social Computing , Behavioral Cultural Modeling and Prediction , SBP’12 , pages 231–238 , Berlin , Heidelberg , 2012 . Springer Verlag .
[ 25 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment
[ 35 ] M . Wiegand , A . Balahur , B . Roth , D . Klakow , and analysis . Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , 2(1 2):1–135 , 2008 .
[ 26 ] B . Pang , L . Lee , and S . Vaithyanathan . Thumbs up ?
Sentiment classification using machine learning techniques . In EMNLP ’02 : Proceedings of the ACL 02 conference on Empirical methods in natural language processing , pages 79–86 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2002 .
[ 27 ] D . Rao and D . Ravichandran . Semi supervised polarity lexicon induction . In Proceedings of the 12th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 675–682 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2009 .
[ 28 ] F . Sebastiani . Machine learning in automated text categorization . ACM Comput . Surv . , 34:1–47 , 2002 .
A . Montoyo . A survey on the role of negation in sentiment analysis . In Proceedings of the Workshop on Negation and Speculation in Natural Language Processing , pages 60–68 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2010 .
[ 36 ] L . Zhang , Y . Jia , B . Zhou , and Y . Han . Microblogging sentiment analysis using emotional vector . In Cloud and Green Computing ( CGC ) , 2012 Second International Conference on , pages 430 –433 , nov . 2012 .
577
