Information Current in Twitter :
Which Brings Hot Events to the World
Peilei Liu , Jintao Tang , Ting Wang
College of Computer , National University of Defense Technology
410073 Changsha , Hunan , China
{plliu , tangjintao , tingwang}@nudteducn
ABSTRACT
In this paper we investigate information propagation in Twitter from the geographical view on the global scale . An information propagation phenomenon what we call “ information current ” has been discovered . According to this phenomenon , we propose a hypothesis that changes of information flows may be related to real time events . Through analysis of retweets , we show that our hypothesis is supported by experiment results . M oreover , it is discovered that the retweet texts are more effective than common tweet texts for real time event detection . This means that Twitter could be a good filter of texts for event detection .
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H28 [ Database M anagement ] : Database Applicat ions – Data M ining ; H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : On line Information Services – Web based services
Keywords Twitter , information propagation , geography , event detection
1 . INTRODUCTION
Twitter is a popular online micro blog service which allows users to send short texts and share information through the retweet activity . M ost existing researches of information propagation in Twitter concentrate on analyzing the influence of network structure on information propagation [ 1,2 ] , while most researches of real time event detection concentrate on analyzing common tweet texts [ 3 5 ] . In this paper we present the study of retweet behavior from a geographical viewpoint and its potential usefulness for real time event detection .
An important characteristic of micro blog services is their realtime nature . Due to this characteristic , Twitter has been viewed as social sensors in existing works . Sakaki et al . proposed an algorithm to monitor tweets and detect earthquakes [ 3 ] . Bollen et al . analyzed the mood of tweets to predict the stock market [ 4 ] . In our opinion , however , Twitter could also be a good filter for event detection . Intuitively , users tend to forward the tweets related to some important real time events , which indicates that retweets should be more effective than common tweets for event detection .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Com panion , May 13 17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
According to this idea , we investigate retweet behavior from the geographical view . An interesting phenomenon what we called “ information current ” is discovered . According to this , we propose a hypothesis that the changes of information flows in information current may be related to real time hot events . Some empirical rules are investigated through the analysis of data . We find that the information current brings hot events , and noises are turned down during the retweeting process . Therefore , retweet texts are more valuable for real time event detection than common tweet texts .
2 . ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
We crawled approximately 50 million tweets using the Twitter API in August 2011 . In this dataset , user ’s geographical positions and the time tweets published were extracted . There are several attributes related to geographical positions . Although coordinate is the best one , tweets with coordinate are very few . Registered locations are free texts , so the synonym problem is a difficulty . We choose time zones as the indicator of users’ geographical positions finally , because they are chosen from a normalized timezones list . In addition , a time zone , which has different names in different countries , can represent a country or a part of it .
2.1 Information Current Phenomenon
Representative time zones , such as London , Eastern Time ( US & Canada ) are extracted following two principles : 1 ) Choosing thsose publishing the most tweets . 2 ) Choosing the most representative ones in every continent . And we use the number of retweets between time zones as the indicator of the information flow strength .
Generally speaking , the strength of an information flow from one position to another is unequal to the reverse flow . These two flows can be integrated into a single unidirectional flow . On the global scale , all these unidirectional flows between time zones together will generate the information current phenomenon , like the ocean current . The main factor influencing these global information flows are geographical positions . They are relatively regular and steady . In general , more information flows into developing countries from developed countries . However , through analysis of the dataset , we find that some changes of the flows’ strength occur every day . And this may be due to real time events , according to our previous hypothesis . So we will have a different global information current graph every day .
111 2.2 Information Current and Real time Event
According to our previous hypothesis , changes of information flows may be caused by real time events . Specifically , hot events shift the directions of users’ attention , which then affect the number of retweets . Therefore we can detect real time events through monitoring the changes of the information current graph . We analyze information flows between main time zones in the dataset , and find that the strongest flows approximately fit the headline news in news sites . you can discover that England pay more attention to America for the Irene Hurricane . Comparing a and b , it can be found that they are similar , but texts used in a is much fewer . Comparing c and d , it can be found that c is actually better , although using much fewer texts . There exist some noises in d , such as “ lol ” , “ don ” “ love ” and “ thanks ” , while these noises have been taken down in c . We have gotten similar results in many experiments on different dataset . This indicates that Twitter can be viewed as a noise filter of texts for event detection .
Figure 1 . Flows between London and Eastern Time .
Table 1 . Events related to UK and US in August 2011
Date
Event
6
18
21
27
London Riots
Israel Bombing Gaza Strip
Syria War
America Irene Hurricane
As an instance , the bidirectional information flows between London and Eastern Time ( US & Canada ) have been presented in Fig 1 . The flows become stronger in some specific dates . For example , from 7 to 10 America retweet England more than usual ; while from 27 to 30 England also retweet America abnormally . Headline news related to UK and US are collected and shown in Table 1 . Overall , in the very day of an event , the corresponding information flow hits the bottom , and then becomes stronger . Two or three days later , it will reach to the peak . However , this doesn’t mean any time lags , because the date , when the information flow hitting the bottom could be viewed as an early warning .
2.3 Real time Events Detection
We then investigate the retweet texts for hot event detection . We collect the bidirectional retweets between London and Eastern Time in specific dates and generate tag clouds respectively . Parts of results are shown in Fig 2 : a is generated from 34k retweet texts from London to Eastern Time in Aug 9 , while c is from 24k retweets from Eastern Time to London in Aug 28 . As a comparison , we collect tweets published in London and Eastern Time in the corresponding date and generate tag clouds . In Fig 2 , b is generated from 4500k tweets published in London in Aug 9 , and d is from 6600k tweets published in East Time in Aug 28 .
From a and b in Fig 2 , you can discover that America retweet England a lot in Aug 9 because of the London riots . From c and d , a c b d
Figure 2 . Tag clouds for event detection
3 . CONCLUTION
We investigate the retweet behavior from the geographical view and present the information current phenomenon in this paper . Changes of information flows are then analyzed for real time event detection . In addition , we demonstrate that Twitter could be a filter of texts for event detection . A limit of this work is that the strengths of information flows across different countries are influenced by the differences of languages . However , the ideas shown in this paper can also be used to analyze the information current between cities within a country , only if the corresponding geographical information is available .
Acknowledgements This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China ( Grant No . 61202337 , 61170156 , and 60933005 ) .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . , Bakshy , I . , Rosenn , C . , M arlow , and L . , Adamic . The role of social networks in information diffusion . In Proc . WWW , 2012 .
[ 2 ] M . , Kim , L . , Xie , and P . , Christen . Event diffusion patterns in social media . In Proc . ICWSM , 2012 .
[ 3 ] T . , Sakaki . , M . , Okazaki . , and Y . , M atsuo . 2010 . Earthquake shakes Twitter users : real time event detection by social sensors . In Proc . WWW , 2010 .
[ 4 ] J . , Bollen , H . , M ao , and X . , Zeng . Twitter mood predicts the stock market . J . Computational Science 2(1 ) ( 2011 ) , 1–8 .
[ 5 ] Y . , Hu , A . , John , DD , Seligmann , and F . , Wang . What were the tweets about ? Topical associations between public events and Twitter feeds . In Proc . ICWSM , 2012 .
112
