Towards a Development Process for Geospatial
Information Retrieval and Search
Dirk Ahlers
Department of Computer and Information Science Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Trondheim , Norway ahlers@dhere.de
ABSTRACT Geospatial search as a special type of vertical search has specific requirements and challenges . While the general principle of resource discovery , extraction , indexing , and search holds , geospatial search systems are tailored to the specific use case at hand with many individual adaptations . In this short overview , we aim to collect and organize the main organizing principles for the multitude of challenges and adaptations to be considered within the development process to work towards a more formal description .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Retrieval—Information Search and Retrieval
Information Storage and
General Terms Design , Documentation .
Keywords Geospatial Web Search , Search engines , Information and Knowledge Management , Developing countries
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Location is an important organizing principle for many Web search tasks . In most industrialized nations the search for locations features prominently within search engines and users are used to seamlessly using local search with a multitude of correct results . It works this well because there is both good data available and tailored technology to make use of it . In many developing countries , the situation is gravely different . Local search may not be as accessible , important places are missing , place descriptions are lacking , geocoding may be hard , or the information density and depth is rather low . Errors or inaccuracies may further complicate the situation , if information is even available in the first place . Motivated by the case of geospatial search in developing regions , we want to abstract from specific countrylevel challenges for local search and carve out more general principles .
This is based on own previous work geospatial search engines for Germany [ 1 , 3 ] and a research stay in Honduras [ 2 ] , where we had to challenge many previously held assumptions
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . and were forced to reevaluate our views . In trying to gather the necessary data , gazetteer information , Web pages , IP space structures etc . , understand place names , directions , and location names , as well as develop the necessary approaches , we first rather informally started to try different ways and means to respond to the challenges . Similar research projects has been described for Chile [ 8 ] , Portugal [ 6 ] , Brazil [ 5 ] , or Germany [ 7 ] . With the necessary hindsight , we now aim towards a more formal description of the development process for geospatial search and services . In this first step , we focus on overarching fields and principles of study even if they may not apply to all cases .
The large questions fall back on the well known challenges of where to get the data , what to do with it , how to cope with shortcomings ? Non geospatial aspects as well as technical implementations are out of scope . The remainder of this paper will outline aspects of the proposed development process for a country level geospatial search engine , focusing on requirements and feasibility analysis .
2 . DEVELOPMENT PROCESS OUTLINE
Depending on the case , approaches can range from using API calls of established local search engines to crawling the whole Web or the Deep Web or buying necessary data from specialized providers . However , even this decision is usually based on a deliberation of the different available options , which itself is further based on the availability or knowledge of these options and their characteristics . The following presents some of the most important points to consider . Main challenges include the requirements and data situation ; and the analyzing , extracting and indexing of geospatial data .
We previously described the process life cycle of geospatial Web information in a crawling search engine [ 4 ] . We now extend and refine this process towards a more abstract and general development process for a geospatial search engine by discussing the main principles and fields of work .
Assessment and understanding A first step is to get an overview of what data sources , applications and services may be available and relevant . Specific undertakings range from market analysis , viability analysis , and data source investigations over requirements engineering to data analysis and user studies , regarding search or ( mobile ) applications . These can provide initial insight into user needs , the availability of data , and requirements for subsequent steps .
143 Enablers Quite an obvious step , a market analysis should find out if the intended solution is actually new and needed and especially if other participants can provide some basic services or data .
Users As a search engine is an offer towards users , their requirements and situation as well as social considerations have to be taken into account . Existing privacy and security concerns should also be evaluated and later addressed . Informal interviews , user studies , or usage observation can provide valuable insight .
Data The data situation is the most important , as it plays an important role in the feasibility analysis . This includes how much data is available , what its characteristics and quality is , which additional sources are available , as well as coverage , density , and distribution analysis .
Country specific characteristics Locations tend to be de scribed and used differently across the world . This includes availability and descriptions of addresses and directions , used granularity and addressing schemes , potential multi language use , levels of reliability , preferred media , size and distribution of domains , and other cases to consider . For example , a low Web coverage can be offset with a stronger use of structured data sources or user generated content .
Building a gazetteer and knowledge base To aid in the extraction of geospatial data , a bootstrapping of known geographical placenames is normally used . Such gazetteer data can either be directly available or needs t be collected and combined from multiple sources .
Discovery and analysis of data sources To get a good overview , various data sources have to be explored to understand the type of information they offer and estimate the amount of data available .
Extraction and analysis of data Specific extraction meth ods have to be developed . These especially concern geoparsing , ie , the identification and extraction of location references , and geocoding , ie , the grounding of location references to geographic coordinates .
Web crawling For crawling a country specific Web , the characteristics and boundaries of the country in the Web have to be defined and delineated . The actual crawling can then better focus on the relevant parts of the Web .
Source integration Local search is not just a document search but is also an entity search in the sense that it models georeferenced documents as well as the actual georeferenced entities described in the documents , following a hybrid search approach . For structured data and multiple Web results , cross correlation and entity resolution across all results is needed .
Infrastructure and interfaces Finally , based upon the avail able data and potential augmentations from additional analysis steps , interfaces to actually search the index are developed , which carry their own set of considerations . This is of course based on an overall search engine infrastructure including storage , ranking , etc .
Figure 1 : Main fields of consideration for geospatial search and retrieval development
3 . CONCLUSION
We have presented a brief overview of issues to consider when building geospatial search systems . This was based on our own experiences as well as relevant related literature . Some issues are well known in the literature , while others are of a more subjective , anecdotal nature and would need broader input for generalization . We hope to deepen this discussion in the future to arrive at a more formal description of the development process including and classifying all the relevant aspects , their dependencies , and cross sectional issues which could only be touched briefly here . Of interest would also be the impact of different factors for different regions of the world , ranging from developing to industrialized countries .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Ahlers . Geographically Focused Web Information Retrieval , volume 18 of Oldenburg Computer Science Series . OlWIR , 2011 .
[ 2 ] D . Ahlers . Towards Geospatial Search for Honduras . In
LACNEM 2011 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] D . Ahlers . Business Entity Retrieval and Data
Provision for Yellow Pages by Local Search . In IRPS Workshop @ ECIR2013 , 2013 .
[ 4 ] S . Boll and D . Ahlers . A Web more Geospatial : Insights into the Location Inside . In WebEvolve2008 Workshop @ WWW08 , 2008 . Web Science Research Initiative . [ 5 ] K . A . V . Borges , A . H . F . Laender , C . B . Medeiros ,
A . S . D . Silva , and J . Clodoveu A . Davis . The Web as a Data Source for Spatial Databases . In Anais do V Brazilian Symposium on Geoinformatics , 2003 .
[ 6 ] D . Gomes , A . Nogueira , J . Miranda , and M . Costa .
Introducing the Portuguese web archive initiative . In 8th International Web Archiving Workshop , 2008 . [ 7 ] A . Markowetz , Y Y Chen , T . Suel , X . Long , and
B . Seeger . Design and Implementation of a Geographic Search Engine . In WebDB 2005 , 2005 .
[ 8 ] M . Mendoza , H . Guerrero , and J . Farias . Inquiro.CL : a
New Search Engine in Chile . In WWW ’09 , 2009 .
144
