Optimization of Ads Allocation in Sponsored Search
Alexey Chervonenkis
ICS RAS , Moscow chervnks@ipu.ru
Anna Sorokina
Yandex LLC , Moscow akornet@yandex team.ru
Valery A . Topinsky Yandex LLC , Moscow vtopin@yandex team.ru
ABSTRACT We introduce the optimization problem of target specific ads allocation . Technique for solving this problem for different target constraints structures is presented . This technique allows us to find optimal ads allocation which maximize the target such as CT R , Revenue or other system performances subject to some linear constraints . We show that the optimal ads allocation depends on both the target and constraints variables .
Categories and Subject Descriptors G16 [ Optimization ] : Constrained optimization ; H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Commercial services ; I28 [ Problem Solving , Control Methods , and Searche ] : Control theory
General Terms Theory , Algorithms
Keywords ads allocation , optimization , sponsored search
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Search engines use keyword auctions to get advertisers’ bids for ad allocation . Usually these auctions are implemented under the pay per click model in which an advertiser pays only for clicks on his ads .
Yandex display ads in two ways : the main part placed above the organic search results ( the top ad placement ) , and the rest on the right side ( the right ad placement ) . For the sake of brevity we consider the allocation problem only for the top ad placement . The main question is how to allocate the ads given their attributes ( ie bid , click through rate , etc . ) in order to optimize a target variable under some constraints on other variables . Here we introduce the mathematical model of the optimization problem and we present the technique for solving this type problems .
Researches about the computational advertisement describe a number of models of the ads allocation : the classical scheme to sort by CP M = bid·CT R , [ 1 ] ; sort by bidk·CT Rl [ 2 ] ; sort by rank = CT R·COEC·U CP ·bid under constraint rank > threshold ( COEC is ‘clicks over expected clicks’ [ 4 ] ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
U CP – ‘the user click propensity’ [ 3] ) . But there are no any attempts to give an answer for the optimal ads allocation problem .
2 . TARGET VARIABLES
There are three main participants : a search engine ( SE ) , a user and advertisers . The SE wants to gain regularly as much money as it can . Hence it ’s strictly necessary to be very popular among both Internet users and advertisers .
We use such measures as the click through rate and the quantity of queries with sponsored results , aka commercial queries’ coverage . The last measure reflects the idea that amongst all users’ queries there is only some number with commercial intents . Under control of the ads quantity the click through rate ( CTR ) can be viewed as a users’ feedback . Advertisers expect to get new customers from the Internet advertising campaign . For the sake of simplicity we use the CTR as the measure of the ad ’s efficiency instead of the conversion rate .
We get three measures which are candidates for the tarthe revenue of SE , the overall CTR and the get variable : commercial queries’ coverage .
3 . OPTIMAL ALLOCATION PROBLEM i are allocated for the query j else zero . Let T ( t ) =
We assume that we have M users’ queries indexed by subscript j and N different banners indexed by subscript i . Then ti,j is a binary variable which equals one if the banner i,j ti,j is a total amount of allocated banners , bidi > 0 is an advertiser ’s bid for the banner i and CT Ri,j ≥ 0 is an estimated click through rate of the banner i for the query j ( for unmatched ( i , j ) we put CT Ri,j = 0 ) . Then we write formally our three measures as follow .
CT R(t ) =(
CT Ri,j · ti,j)/T ( t ) ,
( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 ) i,j i,j
1{ revenue(t ) = bidi · CT Ri,j · ti,j , coverage(t ) =( ti,j > 0})/M . j i
Here in ( 2 ) we define the expected revenue of the SE in case the generalized first price auction , but in case the generalized second price auction we still use this measure in spite of it is always overestimate the true revenue . In ( 3 ) we use notation of the indicator functions 1{·} for definition the number of queries with sponsored results .
121 There is one natural constraint – the number of possible slots for sponsored results is usually bounded above ( ≤ k ) . This is written as follow . ∀ j ti,j ≤ k .
( 4 ) i
Now we can define the optimization problem in terms these notions and variables . For example , one of non greedy SE ’s choices of the target variable is the CT R . The rest measures can be used in the additional constraints :
CT R(t ) → max t
, st Revenue(t ) ≥ R , Coverage(t ) ≤ C .
( 5 )
( 6 )
( 7 )
So we get the optimization problem ( 5 ) with constraints ( 4),(6),(7 ) , where t is a N M length vector with binary elements ti,j . It ’s the discrete programming problem .
4 . SKETCH OF THE SOLUTION
One of the main ideas of our solution is the relaxation of the origin discrete programming problem to a continues optimization problem . We replace the discrete t in ( 5),(4),(6),(7 ) with the continues analogue t such that ∀ i , j ti,j ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . This replacement is correct because of the optimal values are appeared to be either zero or one ( except a few degenerate cases ) . In this case the solution of the continuous problem coincides with of the discrete one .
First of all we write the Lagrangian function which takes into account the revenue constraint ( 6 ) .
L1(t ) = CT R(t ) − λ1(R − Revenue(t ) ) → max t ,
.
( 8 )
This problem will be a simple one if all terms in the right hand side of ( 8 ) are additive with respect to elements of t . The main difficulty is CT R(t ) nonlinearity . To solve this we add the auxiliary constraint T ( t ) = T0 and handle T0 as additional variable . Then we get new Lagrangian :
L2(t ) = ti,j(CT Ri,j · T
0 + λ1bidi · CT Ri,j − λ2 ) −1 i,j
+ const → max t
We have to solve this problem subject to ( 4),(7 ) and ∀ i , j ti,j ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . It ’s clear that except some degenerate cases the optimal solution without ( 4),(7 ) is
( 10 ) ti,j = 1{Scorei,j > 0} , where Scorei,j = CT Ri,j · T
0 + λ1bidi · CT Ri,j − λ2 . −1
To handle ( 4 ) it ’s necessary to zero the least efficient ti,j ( ie with the smallest Scorei,j ) for j with
There is λ3 = inf{λ > 0 :
After this we can calculate the query ’s score as Qj = 0 + λ1bidi · CT Ri,j − λ2 and get optimal i CT Ri,j · T −1 values for ti,j by means of excluding ti,j for j with Qj < λ3 . 1{Qj ≥ λ} ≤ M · C} which i ti,j > k . j manages ( 7 ) .
Obviously the solution of ( 9 ) is a function of all auxiliary parameters : t(cid:63 ) = t(cid:63)(λ1 , λ2 , λ3 , T0 ) . We’ve shown the optimal value for λ3 . The optimal value for λ2 can be found from the equation T ( t ) = T0 . Then with fixed λ2 , λ3 we find L1 . Finally we find the optimal value for λ1 T0 as arg max
T0 from the constraint ( 6 ) according to the KKT theorem .
Figure 1 : For each value λ1 the ( CT R , Revenue)dependency is shown with respect to λ2 . All measurements are calculated relative to the current Yandex algorithm ’s performance .
5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this short paper we introduced the mathematical optimization problem for the target specific optimal ads allocation and presented the way of finding the solution .
Figure 1 shows that our algorithm outperforms the Yan dex allocation algorithm in terms of the target variables .
Several heuristics for the computational complexity reduction for this algorithm coming soon in our next work . In our future work we want to include more complicated measures such as the conversion rate , the relevance or a quality score .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Daniel C Fain and Jan O Pedersen . Sponsored search :
A brief history . Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 32(2):12–13 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] S´ebastien Lahaie and David M Pennock . Revenue analysis of a family of ranking rules for keyword auctions . In Proceedings of the 8th ACM conference on Electronic commerce , pages 50–56 . ACM , 2007 .
Personalized ad placement in web search . Proc . of ADKDD’10 , 2010 .
[ 4 ] Wei Vivian Zhang and Rosie Jones . Comparing click logs and editorial labels for training query rewriting . In WWW 2007 Workshop on Query Log Analysis : Social And Technological Challenges , 2007 .
.
( 9 )
[ 3 ] Stefan Schroedl , Anand Kesari , and Leo Neumeyer .
122
