AELA : an Adaptive Entity Linking Approach
Bianca Pereira
DERI , NUIG
Lower Dangan Galway , Ireland
Nitish Aggarwal
DERI , NUIG
Lower Dangan Galway , Ireland
Paul Buitelaar
DERI , NUIG
Lower Dangan Galway , Ireland biancapereira@deriorg nitishaggarwal@deriorg paulbuitelaar@deriorg
ABSTRACT The number of available Linked Data datasets has been increasing over time . Despite this , their use to recognise entities in unstructured plain text ( Entity Linking task ) is still limited to a small number of datasets . In this paper we propose a framework adaptable to the structure of generic Linked Data datasets . This adaptability allows a broader use of Linked Data datasets for the Entity Linking task .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.3 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Miscellaneous ; I27 [ Natural Language Processing ] : Text analysis
Keywords Entity Linking ; Linked Data ; Named Entity
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Entity Linking task is concerned with recognising entity mentions in a text , similar to Named Entity Recognition , but additionally also to link them with respective record(s ) in an external database . Since its advent , Wikipedia has played a major role in providing background knowledge for this task [ 2 ] , but attention has recently shifted towards using Linked Data ( LD ) instead . Wikipedia contains semi structured information and requires an effort to extract the links between entities , on the other hand , LD datasets are already structured and allow a more straightforward way to find entities and relationships between them . Tools such as DBPedia Spotlight [ 4 ] and AIDA [ 6 ] have been created to benefit as much as possible from LD structure and the amount of data available in the LD cloud . As LD datasets vary in schema , these tools are becoming very specialised for particular datasets . Due to this , only a small number of LD datasets available on the Web is effectively used for the Entity Linking task . A broader use of available LD datasets would allow us to enable domain specific identification of entities besides allowing the usage of non public data such as Linked Enterprise Data . Instead of creating a specialised tool for each available dataset we aim to have a general self adaptive one that can perform Entity Linking with different LD datasets under varied schemas . For this we created AELA , an Adaptive Entity Linking Approach .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Figure 1 : AELA framework
2 . OUR APPROACH
AELA is a framework consisting of different modules that perform each step needed to conduct the Entity Linking task . Each module was designed to be independent and adaptable to the structure of the given LD dataset . All modules can be seen in Figure 1 .
LD dataset Selector : The first module is responsible for verifying the suitability of the LD dataset for the Entity Linking task . It verifies if both text and dataset share the same domain ( music , films and so on ) and performs a quality assessment of the dataset . The assessment is based on three criteria given by [ 1 ] : Accessibility , Comprehensibility and Validity of Documents . We also created the Data Richness criterion with two indicators : number of classes with Named Entities as their instances and the number of relationships between entities in the dataset . PIN Recogniser : The second module adapts the framework with the schema of the selected LD dataset . It detects which classes have Named Entities as their instances and which properties refer to their names . These properties we call PIN ( Properties that Identify Names ) and each class may have its own set of PIN . To recognise PIN we are assuming that Named Entity labels are proper names or acronyms with almost all letters capitalised . For this we applied the method and heuristics presented in [ 5 ] .
Gazetteer Generator : To recognise the Named Entities in a text , a dictionary of Named Entities is required for mapping the names to LD resources . Thus the Gazetteer Generator transforms the LD dataset dynamically into a dictionary through a Lookup Service . This service performs a series of SPARQL queries to find all the resources that refer to a Named Entity with the name provided as input . Named Entity Mention Recogniser : In order to find each piece of text ( potential terms ) that mentions a Named Entity , this module uses a sliding window over the text . The dictionary is used to identify names and to link them to a set of candidates in LD resources .
87 Table 1 : Gazetteer Generator results
Dataset
Query Type #URIs Correct URIs
Jamendo
Linked MDB simple
RE full text simple
RE full text
94 93 93 193 193 192
100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 %
Table 2 : Named Entity Mention Recogniser results
Dataset
Jamendo
Linked MDB
Type full proper name full proper name
Names per Text ( Avg . ) Names ( Avg . )
Correct
42.32 8.41 7.61 7.04
8.77 % 42.57 % 82.52 % 87.22 %
Named Entity Disambiguator : The last module chooses the most appropriate candidate resource to link with each potential term appearing in the text . The Named Entity Disambiguator was developed using a graph based method adapting the work of [ 3 ] to use LD datasets . This decision was based on the fact that some LD datasets do not provide any textual description to allow the applicability of text similarity approaches ( eg bag of words ) .
3 . EVALUATION
The evaluation process assessed each module independently to verify how they perform individually . The Gazetteer Generator received the list with correct PIN as input and the other modules received the output of the previous modules as input .
The framework was applied in two different domains : music and films . For the music domain we collected 66 biographies from the Jamendo website1 to annotate with the Jamendo RDF Server2 . For the films domain we selected 28 trivia texts from the Internet Movie Database3 to use with the Linked Movie Database ( Linked MDB)4 .
LD Dataset Selector : Some sources of information were used for quality assessment : the website for each LD dataset , CKAN website5 ( a website for open data datasets ) and provided SPARQL endpoints . Both datasets obtained positive results for most indicators so they can be applied for the Entity Linking task . Despite this , some data quality problems such as wrong names , or text instead of an URI as a value for a property , may influence the results of the whole framework .
PIN Recogniser : The method used for this module was exactly the same as in [ 5 ] showing that even simple heuristics are capable of identifying PINs .
Gazetteer Generator : We evaluated different kinds of SPARQL queries : simple SPARQL queries , Regular Expression ( RE ) and full text search ( only available in few SPARQL endpoints ) . To verify the correctness of the whole Gazetteer requires an extensive manual effort instead we opted for selecting a list of 100 names for each dataset and verify if the Lookup Service returns a set of URIs of Named Entities identified by these names . The results can be seen in Table 1 .
Named Entity Mention Recogniser : To evaluate the recognition of Named Entity mentions in text , the result of the module was compared with a manual annotation of both biography and trivia texts . As many people may write texts wrongly and do not write all proper names with capitalised letters , the evaluation was made considering both the whole
1http://wwwjamendocom/ 2http://dbtune.org/jamendo/ 3http://wwwimdbcom/ 4http://wwwlinkedmdborg/ 5http://wwwckannet/ text and only proper names with capitalised letters . The results are shown in Table 2 .
Named Entity Disambiguator : A manual annotation of texts with the correct URIs from LD resources was performed to evaluate the Named Entity Disambiguator module . Only perfect matching and correct URIs were considered as correct . The results are available in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Named Entity Disambiguator results
Dataset Jamendo
Linked MDB
Precision Recall F Score
0.42 0.77
0.75 0.99
0.54 0.87
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper we presented AELA , an adaptive Entity Linking approach using generic Linked Data datasets . Each module from AELA was presented and evaluated independently with texts and LD datasets from two different domains . A following study has to be made to verify how errors propagate from one module to another .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work has been funded in part by the European Union under Grant Number 258191 for the PROMISE project , as well as by the Science Foundation Ireland under Grant No . SFI/08/CE/I1380 ( Lion 2 ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Flemming and O . Hartig . Quality criteria for linked data sources . Online at http://bit . ly/ld quality .
[ 2 ] B . Hachey , W . Radford , and J . Curran . Graph based named entity linking with wikipedia . Web Information System Engineering–WISE 2011 , pages 213–226 , 2011 . [ 3 ] X . Han , L . Sun , and J . Zhao . Collective entity linking in web text : a graph based method . In SIGIR , 2011 .
[ 4 ] P . N . Mendes , M . Jakob , A . Garc´ıa Silva , and C . Bizer .
Dbpedia spotlight : Shedding light on the web of documents . In I Semantics , 2011 .
[ 5 ] B . Pereira , J . C . da Silva , and A . S . Vivacqua .
Discovering names in linked data datasets . In First International Workshop on Web of Linked Entities ( WoLE 2012 ) , 2012 .
[ 6 ] M . A . Yosef , J . Hoffart , I . Bordino , M . Spaniol , and
G . Weikum . Aida : An online tool for accurate disambiguation of named entities in text and tables . Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment , 4(12 ) , 2011 .
88
