Linked Data Selectors
Kai Michael Höver
Technische Universität Darmstadt Department of Computer Science Hochschulstr . 10 , 64289 Darmstadt
Germany hoever@acm.org
Max Mühlhäuser
Technische Universität Darmstadt Department of Computer Science Hochschulstr . 10 , 64289 Darmstadt
Germany max@informatiktu darmstadtde
ABSTRACT In the world of Linked Data , HTTP URIs are names . A URI is dereferenced to obtain a copy or description of the referred resource . If only a fragment of a resource should be referred , pointing to the whole resource is not sufficient . Therefore , it is necessary to be able to refer to fragments of resources , and to name them with URIs to interlink them in the Web of Data . This is especially helpful in the educational context where learning processes including discussion and social interaction demand for exact references and granular selections of media . This paper presents the specification of Linked Data Selectors , an OWL ontology for describing dereferenceable fragments of Web resources .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; K.3 [ Computers and Education ] : General
General Terms Design
Keywords Ontology , E learning , Linked Data , Anchors
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In the world of Linked Data , HTTP URIs are used as names for things for referencing them . Furthermore , the Linked Data principles [ 3 , 4 , 5 ] recommend to make URIs dereferenceable , so that information about the referenced things are provided . These provided information might be embodied in the form of Web documents or represented as RDF data depending on , eg , content negotiation . If a Web document has been requested , an HTML document that describes the resource is usually send back to the client .
Using URIs as names enables both humans and machines to talk about things like real world objects or abstract concepts in an unambiguous way . However , a provided description of a resource might be too general . To take an example , you may want to refer to a certain paragraph of an HTML document or a certain section of a figure that is embedded in Web document . In these cases , using the URIs of the docu
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . ments is not sufficient enough as they do not unambiguously refer to the indented fragments of a Web document .
Especially in the learning context the possibility to refer to a resource or a selection of a resource is necessary . We will explain this in the following .
As learning is also a social process , because learning processes include discourse , which is necessary to validate acquired knowledge and to learn from other people , learners debate and exchange information in , eg , discussion forums or blogs . To take an example , if a forum discussion covers a certain slide or part of it , the reference to the discussion needs to be verbally expressed like “ I have a question about presentation file x , slide number y , second equation ” . Using a URI instead that represents this selection is much more appreciated . To take another example , a teacher may want to refer to a specific time interval in a lecture video , eg , from a MIT OpenCourseWare1 , it is fairly ponderous to describe the reference with words . Instead the teacher should provide a single link that unambiguously describes the interval . A last example regards the reference of a text section or sections . Imagine a student has a question regarding a specific paragraph in a long manuscript . Again , a link that describes the reference would ease the discussion about the referred section .
Further , making annotations to learning resources is also an important act of learning . Agosti et al . [ 1 ] distinguish between annotations as metadata , content , and dialogue acts . Annotations as metadata add information about the annotated information . Annotations as content augment information with additional content . A student or educator may add notes to an educational resource for explanation or clarification . Annotations as dialogue acts consist of communicative acts like a request or a discourse . For all these cases it is important to exactly name the related resource an annotation refers to . Studies regarding the annotation of texts have shown that the majority of annotations is anchored [ 15 ] . As educational content is not only textual but multi medial , eg , figures and videos , naming fragments of various media types for annotation anchoring is important .
According to Michael Joyce , hypertext can be used in both a exploratory and constructive way [ 13 ] . The selection of fragments and linking those fragments is one of the basic concepts of hypertext , which introduced a paradigm change from a linear to a non linear arrangement of information . This brings along a new kind of knowledge organization and learning in contrast to former working with isolated and non linked , linear information . Palumbo and Bermudez [ 16 ]
1http://ocwmitedu/
439 argue that learners should become “ builders of knowledge , inherently challenged to create new insights from the information provided ” . Therefore , they underline the importance that “ the user not only browses the information base but also has the ability to build additional nodes and links ” . Selecting nodes and making links enables learners to organize unstructured information and to make implicit knowledge structures explicit . However , learners can only create their learning hyperspace if they are able to make fine granular selections of elements in a learning ecosystem .
In order to address the outlined problems , we present the Linked Data Selectors ( LDS ) ontology , an ontology that specifies a vocabulary to describe fragments of various types of Web resources , and their representations . With this ontology it is possible to name selections of resources , to dereference them , and to link them .
The paper is structured as follows . First , we motivate the goals of the LDS ontology and then describe the design goals of the LDS specification . Then , we review the related work regarding the formalization of selectors . After this , the LDS ontology is presented . The paper closes with a summary and an outlook on future work .
2 . DESIGN GOALS
This section describes the requirements and design goals for describing selections of Web resources . 2.1 Linked Data principles
Linked Data Selectors should fulfill the Linked Data prin ciples [ 3 , 4 , 5 ] . These are :
1 . Use URIs as names for things
2 . Use HTTP URIs so that people can look up those names .
3 . When someone looks up a URI , provide useful infor mation , using the standards ( RDF , SPARQL )
4 . Include links to other URIs . so that they can discover more things .
Selectors should also be described by URIs and be deref erenceable to provide useful information . 2.2 Support of different media types
Web resources can be presented in various formats like HTML documents , figures , or videos . The MIME types [ 8 ] extend this list . Web documents can also be a combination of these types . For example , an HTML document with an embedded figure , or a presentation recording that may consists of figures , text , and a video . Depending on the type , different kinds of selectors are necessary . For example , an XPath description can be used to refer to nodes of an XML or ( X)HTML document . For figures , geometric descriptions can be used to describe a shape that selects a portion . To obtain a selection of a Web database a SQL or SPARQL statement might be used . To enable selectors of a broad range of various Web resources , it is necessary to support different kinds of selection statements .
With a focus on digital media we can distinguish between : • Continuos media : This category includes time based media like audio and video . Selectors of this type are usually time instants or time intervals .
• Discrete media : Images , graphics , and texts are representations of discrete media . Digital images are usually described by either vectors or a coordinate system . For the latter , geometric shapes like rectangle or circle are often used for making selections of image regions .
2.3 Extensible and lightweight
As there are many different kinds of Web resources , it is necessary to make the specification flexible as possible . In particular , we need to support different kinds of media and appropriate selectors . Thus , namespace based modules are used to allow extensibility . A selector can even be understood in a broader way as a thing that selects a part or parts from a thing . A selector could for example even be the eyes of a person , although our focus is on digital Web resources . As there are many different kinds of selectors we need to make the description of selectors and their selectors as flexible and extensible as possible .
3 . RELATED WORK
In this section , we review existing technologies and ontologies that provide localization and selector concepts of digital information .
The Annotation Ontology [ 6 , 7 ] provides a vocabulary to describe several types of annotations . It also includes selector concepts like AudioSelector , ImageSelector , and TextSelector , however they are only incompletely defined .
With the ISO/IEC MPEG–7 standard2 , formally named “ Multimedia Content Description Interface ” , multimedia resources on the Web can be described . Particular localizations of a video can be localized . This includes region locators and spatiotemporal locators . Hunter [ 11 ] , the COMM ontology [ 2 ] and other MPEG–7 ontologies [ 17 ] provide locator descriptions . Due to their focus on audiovisual information , they do not provide localization descriptions for textual information or information systems .
The XML Path Language3 ( XPath ) is a descriptive language for querying nodes or atomic values in XML documents . As many applications use XML , for example SVG ( Scalable Vector Graphics ) , Office Open XML , and XMLRPC , it can be used for querying information of various kinds of data .
The Structured Query Language ( SQL ) is a domain specific language for managing data stored in relational database management systems . Queries can be performed with the SELECT statement .
The SPARQL Protocol And RDF Query Language4 is the pendant of SQL for managing RDF data . The “ SELECT ” statement in combination with the WHERE clause enables pulling specific data out of SPARQL endpoints .
4 . LINKED DATA SELECTORS ONTOLOGY
This section presents the design of the Linked Data Selectors ( LDS ) ontology , which we implemented in the W3C Web Ontology Language5 ( OWL ) .
First , we present the core modules of LDS ontology . Then , we describe the integration with other related ontologies .
2http://mpegchiariglioneorg/standards/mpeg 7 3http://wwww3org/TR/xpath20/ 4http://wwww3org/standards/techs/sparql# 5http://wwww3org/TR/owl2 overview/
440 4.1 LDS core modules
The LDS core ontology consist of two main concepts , that is Selector and SelectionRepresentation ( see Figure 1 ) . 411 Selector A selector identifies a fragment of a specific resource . In Manchester syntax6 [ 10 ] , a Selector is formally defined as :
SubClassOf : fragmentOf e x a c t l y 1 Thing , h a s R e p r e s e n t a t i o n min 0
S e l e c t i o n R e p r e s e n t a t i o n , h a s S u b s e l e c t o r max 1 S e l e c t o r
A selection is made on a specific resource which is identified by the fragmentOf relation . As a selector can perform a selection on only one resource , this property is functional . Further , there can be one or more representations of a selection ( see subsubsection 412 ) The hasSubselector objectproperty facilitates selector chaining . With this , a chain of selectors can be applied . Such a chain can be for example a region of an image which is the representation of a key frame of a time instant of a video .
Depending on the media type one of the following disjoint subconcepts is used :
• TemporalSelector : A temporal selector is used to identify fragments of time based media like audio and video . Its selector is either a time instant or a time interval . • SpatialSelector : This kind of selector identifies geometric regions of a two dimensional image . A geometric region is described by a geometric shape like a circle or a rectangle .
• DeclarativeSelector : A declarative selector is used to make selections with declarative languages . This includes for instance XPath , SQL , and SPARQL .
412 SelectionRepresentation The selection process may result in some representations . For example , the selection of an image can result in another image that contains the selected region ; the selection of a video ’s time interval can result in a cut version of the original video . Selection representations are used to provide users one or more presentations of the result process . Such a representation refers to at least one resource of a certain media type . 413 A Selector Set has the purpose to group selectors in order to speak about more than one Selector or Thing . With this , it is possible , eg , to refer to a group of certain Web sites or several fragments of Web resources . Usually , a set of selectors consists of 2 or more Selectors , but may be also refer to a Resource Set7 that describes a group of IRIs of resources . 4.2 LDS extended modules
SelectorSet
In the previous section , the core features of the LDS ontology are presented . In this section , we describe the integration with other related ontologies . In particular , we need
6http://wwww3org/2007/OWL/wiki/ManchesterSyntax 7http://wwww3org/TR/2009/ REC powder grouping 20090901/
Spatial selections vocabularies for describing spatial and temporal selections as well as media types for describing a selection source and its representations . 421 For describing spatial selectors ( regions ) on 2D images , we have modeled a simple ontology that defines the concepts of 2D shapes . Figure 2 depicts its class hierarchy . Common shapes for selecting parts of an image are circles and rectangles . A rectangle for instance is defined as a parallelogram which angle value is 90 ( hasAngle value "90"^^int ) . Further it has a height and a width , and a coordinate identifying the point at the side of the rectangle with the smaller x axis and y axis coordinate value in the coordinate system . A circle is defined by its radius . The location coordinate points to the center of a circle . 422 Time based selections For describing time instants and time intervals a time ontology for synchronous media was defined . It consists of two main classes :
• TimeEntity : This class is the union of a class for describing time instants ( TimeInstant ) and time intervals ( TimeInterval ) .
• TimeUnit : This concept is used for time unit conversion . It defines a base unit ( seconds ) and scaling numbers for derived time units like millisecond or minute .
423 Media For the description of media resources we integrate the W3C Media Resources vocabulary8 , which provides a core set of metadata properties . It allows us to set the location of media resources as well as other metadata like height and width as well as frame rate and duration in case of video or audio resources . 4.3 Use by example
In this section , we present two examples that demonstrate using the Linked Data Selectors ontology . 431 Referencing a video snippet Figure 3 depicts an example of using the LDS ontology . It shows the selection of a time interval of a video file , eg , a lecture recording . The selection starts at second 23 and ends after one minute . A representation of this selection is provided at the URI “ http://cutvideo.mp4 ” . 432 Linking lecture slides with a paragraph of a
Web document
In this example , we want to express the relation between a selection of a lecture recording and a related fragment of a Website . To be more precisely , we link a number of slides of the CLLS to a section of a HTML document . The CLLS ( Collaborative Linked Learning Space ) [ 12 ] is a system that stores data of lecture recordings and the corresponding learning space . This includes for example slides , lecture videos , user annotations , and meta data like keywords . In this scenario , we want to link all slides with the keyword “ 303 URI ” to a fragment of the Linked Data Book9 [ 9 ] . Here , we need to make the following two selections :
8http://wwww3org/TR/mediaont 10/ 9http://linkeddatabook.com/
441 Figure 1 : The Linked Data Selectors core ontology
Figure 2 : The class hierarchy of the Geometric Objects Ontology
442 Figure 3 : Example of the selection of a video segment and its representation
• Selection of slides : for the selection of slides we use a
SPARQL query for the SparqlSelector :
SELECT ?slide WHERE { ? slide a #Slide . ? slide dc:subject ’303 URI’.}
• Selection of paragraph : the paragraph of the book that provides an explanation of 303 URIs has the XPath / HTML/BODY/P[59 ] that is used for the XPathSelector . This selection is a fragment of the document with the URL http://linkeddatabookcom/editions/10/
The object property #explains from the CLLS namespace is used to describe the semantic relation between the slides and the paragraph . Figure 4 illustrates the example . 5 . REVIEW OF DESIGN GOALS
• Linked data principles : By using RDF and OWL , eg , instead of defining an XML schema definition , and reusing other ontologies , it is easily possible to publish and interlink selectors with structured data on the Web . URIs are used as names for selectors , which makes it much easier to talk about a selection . To take an example , it is possible to use an URI for the statements that refers to an SQL statement that selects all employees working in a certain department . Useful information ( third Linked Data principle ) can be provided by defining representations of a selection . Such representations can even include other URIs for further exploration .
• Support of different media types : The ontology is designed to support both continuous and discrete media types , as well as declarative languages like XPath and SQL . However , spatiotemporal descriptions are not supported . Though , it is possible to chain selectors .
• Extensible and lightweight : We achieve the extensibility via namespaces and via compliance with RDF . In this way , the specification can be extended without need of rewriting the core specification . Furthermore , there is no need of consensus of each element except the core elements , which is independent of other ontologies in its core version . Users can thus easily add module specifications that fits their needs .
6 . SUMMARY AND FUTURE WORK
In a Web of Data it is not only important to make statements on resources but also about parts of these resources . This is especially relevant in the learning context since learning objects are available at different levels of granularity . For this purpose , this paper contributes the Linked Data Selectors ontology10 that can be used for naming and ( de)referencing selections on media resources and their representation with HTTP URIs . We described the core of the ontology that is independent of any other ontology in order to meet the requirements of being extensible and lightweight(see section 2 ) . Further , the integration of other ontologies was demonstrated , which was concluded by two examples .
For future work , we plan to refine and extend the ontology . For example , there is no support for selectors of spatiotemporal information . This could be integrated by making use of existing MPEG–7 ontologies . Furthermore , some resources like SQL or Web servers require user authentication . To extend the LDS ontology , vocabulary as defined
10http://purl.org/lds/core/ timeintervalselectionbeginhasStartTimetimeIntervalSelectioncutvideopresentationhasRepresentationTimeIntervalhas individualhasTemporalDescriptionselectionendIntervalSelectorhas individualvideocuthasMediaResourceVideoTrackhas individualVideoRepresentationhas individualhasEndTimelongvideofragmentOfhas individual"230""http://cutvideomp4"inSeconds"830"inSecondslocator"http://videomp4"locatorInterval SelectionSelection sourceSelection representation443 Figure 4 : Example of linking a selection of slides and a Web document paragraph by , eg , the OmniVoke Authentication Ontology11 [ 14 ] can be used for this purpose . Another interesting aspect is the dereferencing of Linked Selectors in combination with content negotiation and 303 URIs strategy for processing Linked Data Selectors .
Types . Available at http://wwwietforg/rfc/rfc2046txt , 11 1996 .
[ 9 ] T . Heath and C . Bizer . Linked data : evolving the web into a global data space . Morgan & Claypool , 2011 .
[ 10 ] M . Horridge , N . Drummond , J . Goodwin , A . L .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Agosti and N . Ferro . A formal model of annotations of digital content . ACM Trans . Inf . Syst . , 26(1):3:1–3:57 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] R . Arndt , R . Troncy , S . Staab , L . Hardman , and
M . Vacura . COMM : Designing a Well Founded Multimedia Ontology for the Web . In K . Aberer , K S . S . Choi , N . Noy , D . Allemang , K I . I . Lee , L . Nixon , J . Golbeck , P . Mika , D . Maynard , R . Mizoguchi , G . Schreiber , and P . Cudr´e Mauroux , editors , The Semantic Web , volume 4825 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 30–43 . Springer Berlin / Heidelberg , 2007 .
[ 3 ] T . Berners Lee . Linked Data Design Issues . http://wwww3org/DesignIssues/LinkedDatahtml , 6 2009 . last access : Feb 22 , 2013 .
[ 4 ] C . Bizer , T . Heath , and T . Berners Lee . Linked Data
The story so far . International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems , 5(3):1–22 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] C . Bizer , T . Heath , K . Idehen , and T . Berners Lee .
Linked data on the web ( LDOW2008 ) . In Proceedings of the 17th international conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’08 , pages 1265–1266 , New York , NY , USA , 2008 . ACM .
[ 6 ] P . Ciccarese , M . Ocana , S . Das , and T . Clark . AO : An Open Annotation Ontology for Science on the Web . In BioOntologies 2010 : Semantic Applications in Life Sciences , Boston , Massachusetts , 2010 .
[ 7 ] P . Ciccarese , M . Ocana , L . Garcia Castro , S . Das , and T . Clark . An open annotation ontology for science on web 30 Journal of Biomedical Semantics , 2(Suppl 2):S4 , 2011 .
[ 8 ] N . Freed and N . Borenstein . RFC2046 : Multipurpose
Internet Mail Extensions ( MIME ) Part Two : Media
11http://omnivokekmiopenacuk/authentication/
Rector , R . Stevens , and H . Wang . The Manchester OWL Syntax . In B . C . Grau , P . Hitzler , C . Shankey , and E . Wallace , editors , Proceedings of the OWLED*06 Workshop on OWL : Experiences and Directions , Athens , Georgia , USA , November 10 11 , 2006 , volume 216 of CEUR Workshop Proceedings . CEUR WS.org , 2006 .
[ 11 ] J . Hunter . Semantic Web : Building and Applying an
MPEG 7 Ontology . Wiley , 10 2005 .
[ 12 ] K . M . H¨over , G . von Bachhaus , M . Hartle , and
M . M¨uhlh¨auser . DLH/CLLS : An Open , Extensible System Design for Prosuming Lecture Recordings and Integrating Multimedia Learning Ecosystems . In IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia ( ISM ) 2012 , pages 477–482 , 12 2012 .
[ 13 ] M . Joyce . Of two minds : hypertext pedagogy and poetics . University of Michigan Press , Ann Arbor , 1996 .
[ 14 ] M . Maleshkova , C . Pedrinaci , J . Domingue , G . Alvaro , and I . Martinez . Using semantics for automating the authentication of web APIs . In Proceedings of the 9th international semantic web conference on The semantic web Volume Part I , ISWC’10 , pages 534–549 , Berlin , Heidelberg , 2010 . Springer Verlag .
[ 15 ] C . C . Marshall and A . J . B . Brush . Exploring the relationship between personal and public annotations . In JCDL ’04 : Proceedings of the 4th ACM/IEEE CS joint conference on Digital libraries , pages 349–357 , New York , NY , USA , 2004 . ACM .
[ 16 ] D . B . Palumbo and A . B . Berm´udez . Using
Hypermedia to Assist Language Minority Learners in Achieving Academic Success . Computers in the Schools , 10(1 2):171–188 , 1995 .
[ 17 ] M . Su´arez Figueroa , G . Atemezing , and O . Corcho . The landscape of multimedia ontologies in the last decade . Multimedia Tools and Applications , 62(2):377–399 , 2013 .
#303slideshasDeclarationSparqlSelectorhas individualfragmentOfSparql Endpoint"SELECT ?slide WHERE { ?slide a #Slide . ?slide dc:subject '303 URI'.}"#booksection#explainsXPathSelectorhas individualhasDeclarationfragmentOf"http://linkeddatabookcom/editions/10/""/HTML/BODY/P[59]"Slidesparagraph444
