A Case Based Analysis of the Effect of Offline Media on
Online Conversion Actions
Damir Vandic vandic@eseeurnl
Didier Nibbering didieren@gmail.com
Flavius Frasincar frasincar@eseeurnl
Erasmus University Rotterdam
PO Box 1738 , NL 3000
Rotterdam , the Netherlands
ABSTRACT In this paper , we investigate how offline advertising , by means of TV and radio , influences online search engine advertisement . Our research is based on the search enginedriven conversion actions of a 2012 marketing campaign of the potato chips manufacturer Lays . In our analysis we use several models , including linear regression ( linear model ) and Support Vector Regression ( non linear model ) . Our results confirm that offline commercials have a positive effect on the number of conversion actions from online marketing campaigns . This effect is especially visible in the first 50 minutes after the advertisement broadcasting .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H42 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Types of Systems—Decision support ; H4m [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
Keywords Offline Media , Marketing Campaign , Online Conversion
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The last few years online advertising has grown rapidly . One of the reasons is that online advertising gives the possibility of targeting specialized audience segments [ 8 ] . However , one of the main side effects is the ease of tracking the results of an online campaign . Besides the advantages of online media , we know that no website can compete with the sheer size and usage volume of the TV audience . An average American family watches 60 hours of television a week [ 1 ] . We also know that offline advertising , like television commercials , increases website visits by increasing the consumer awareness [ 7 ] .
In the literature , we can find many studies that investigate the sales advertising relationship [ 2 , 6 , 7 ] . In particular , the authors [ 7 ] demonstrate that offline advertising could increase website visitation . They empirically determine the factors that drive traffic in the Web space . Offline advertising is one of these factors . It appears to increase website visitation through its significant influence on consumer awareness , while online advertising directly leads to increased website traffic . However , the relationship between
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . the offline part of an advertising campaign and the online website visitation has never been confirmed using a large real life data set . In this research , we use a unique large dataset that contains log information on website activity and offline and online advertisement campaigns . We investigate how offline advertisement influences the number of visitors that reaches the main portal site through online search engine advertisements . In this context , a conversion action is defined as a Web site visit at a particular point in time and with a particular goal .
2 . THE ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
The focus of this paper is a campaign from the potato chips manufacturer Lays , which consists of an online and offline part . Lays started in 2010 with an advertising campaign called “ Maak de Smaak ” ( Dutch for “ Make the flavor ” ) that aimed to increase brand preference by involving consumers in the product development . Dutch consumers were asked to ( 1 ) devise a potato chips flavor for the new Lays Limited Edition potato chips , ( 2 ) to purchase the trial packs of the final flavors , and ( 3 ) to vote on their favorite flavor . For tasks ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , Lays launched a Web site that served as the main portal of the campaign .
The data set that we use consists of 600,000 so called “ unique conversion paths ” . These unique conversion paths contain ordered nodes , where each node represents an online action ( eg , a Web site visit ) . A unique conversion path corresponds to one or more conversion actions . For example , a user might go to the home page and submit a new flavor in the competition . In this case there are two conversion actions : ( 1 ) the Web site visit , and ( 2 ) the submission of a new flavor , which is a more valued conversion action . Complementary to this data , we also have detailed data of the level of advertisement , both for TV and radio .
From the data set , we extracted several important variables . We take the ‘number of Search Engine Advertisement ( SEA ) conversion actions’ as the dependent variable . These conversion actions represent visits by users that arrived through an search engine advertisement . As first explanatory variable we take ‘time’ , as it is plausible that people are more likely to use the Internet at certain times of the day . We use two independent variables for the number of radio and television commercials . Furthermore , ‘size of the reached radio audience’ is also used as an independent variable . Last , in order to estimate the individual effects of different channels , we employ dummy variables for each TV channel . We convert the data set to a time series data set
125 where a record represents a slice of 5 minutes . For example , if yt denotes the dependent variable , then y0 represents the number of SEA conversion actions in the first 5 minutes , y1 in the second 5 minutes , etc .
3 . RESULTS
We start our analysis with a simple econometric model : the Ordinary Least Squares ( OLS ) linear regression model . We estimate this model on a training set , and then we use the estimated model to predict the number of SEA conversions on a test set . In order to determine whether offline advertisement has any significant effect on the number of online SEA conversion actions , we compare the fit of two models , ie , one that contains offline advertisement levels as independent variable(s ) and one that does not . For this comparison , we employ the Diebold Mariano test ( DM test ) [ 4 ] and select the optimal model specification for both models . We found that the most optimal specification includes 10 lags for each time bound variable ( eg , the number of radio advertisement broadcasts ) .
The results from the DM test show that the model that contains offline advertisement levels as independent variable(s ) , has a significantly lower mean absolute error ( MAE ) at a significance level of 5 % ( p = 004 ) From this we can conclude that information about offline advertisements improves the prediction of online SEA conversion actions . Furthermore , we can confirm that , based on the MincerZarnowitz regression test [ 5 ] , the model with offline advertisement variables is more efficient ( ie , the estimations are less biased ) than the model that excludes the offline advertisement variables .
We also perform the same experiment with a Support Vector Regression ( SVR ) model . This model is known for its excellent performance in various fields [ 3 ] . In this case , we found that , at a 10 % significance level , the model that includes offline advertisement information has a significantly lower MAE than the model that excludes offline advertisement information . In other words , we can draw the same conclusion as with the OLS model , only this time with less certainty . The Mincer Zarnowitz regression test showed that the two models differ slightly in efficiency , ie , the level of bias in the estimation , with the model that excludes the offline advertisement information being slightly more efficient . Figure 1 shows an overview of the effect of the lag size in the OLS and SVR models . We can see that in the beginning adding more lag elements decreases the error . However , for both models , the error increases after a certain number of lag elements . For the OLS model this behavior is more visible as the MAE of the SVR remains fairly stable across the whole lag range . Figure 1 confirms also what our statistical tests have shown , ie , that the SVR regression model is clearly superior compared to the OLS regression model .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we analyzed the effect of offline media on online conversion actions . Using a large marketing campaign data set , we estimated OLS models and SVR models that predict the number of search engine advertisement conversion actions . The models showed that offline media significantly affects the online conversion actions . In addition , we found that the influence is the highest in the first 50 minutes after the broadcasting of offline media .
Figure 1 : An overview of the Mean Absolute Error ( MAE ) for different lag values .
As future work we would like to investigate the role of the cost of offline media resources in the employed models . When we utilize the effects of offline media we have found in this paper with the costs of the offline media resources , we can provide the most cost efficient allocation of the offline media resources . Another aspect that needs to be investigated is the consideration of information about the display advertising . In this way it is possible to devise a model that estimates the optimal combination of offline and online media in order to achieve the best cost efficient advertisement result .
Acknowledgment The authors are partially sponsored by the NWO Mosaic project 017007142 : Semantic Web Enhanced Product Search ( SWEPS ) .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Baran . Introduction to Mass Communication : Media
Literacy and Culture . McGraw Hill , 2010 .
[ 2 ] D . Clarke . Econometric measurement of the duration of advertising effect on sales . Journal of Marketing Research , pages 345–357 , 1976 .
[ 3 ] R . Collobert and S . Bengio . Svmtorch : Support vector machines for large scale regression problems . The Journal of Machine Learning Research , 1:143–160 , 2001 .
[ 4 ] F . Diebold and R . Mariano . Comparing predictive accuracy . Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , 13(3):253–263 , 1995 .
[ 5 ] J . A . Mincer and V . Zarnowitz . The evaluation of economic forecasts . In Economic Forecasts and Expectations : Analysis of Forecasting Behavior and Performance , pages 1–46 . NBER , 1969 .
[ 6 ] V . Rao . Alternative econometric models of sales advertising relationships . Journal of Marketing Research , pages 177–181 , 1972 .
[ 7 ] R . Winer and J . Ilfeld . Generating website traffic .
Journal of Advertising Research , 42(5):49–61 , 2002 .
[ 8 ] R . Zeff and B . Aronson . Advertising on the Internet .
John Wiley & Sons , Inc . , 1999 .
242730050100150200250Number of lagsMean Absolute Error ( MAE)MethodOLSSVR126
