The Social Meanings of Social Networks :
Integrating SNA and Ethnography of Social Networking
Rogério de Paula IBM Research – Brazil
Rua Tutóia 1159 , São Paulo , Brazil .
+55 11 2132 3832 depaula@acm.org
ABSTRACT In this talk , I examine the manifest , emic meanings of social networking in the context of social network analysis and it uses this to discuss how the confluence of social science and computational sociology can contribute to a richer understanding of how emerging social technologies shape and are shaped by people ’s everyday practices .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J4 [ Social And Behavioral Sciences ] : Sociology
General Terms Human Factors , Measurement .
Keywords Ethnography , Social Network Analysis , Ethno mining , Computational Socilogy .
1 . INTRODUCTION
In this talk , I examine the manifest , emic meanings of social networking in the context of social network analysis and it uses this to discuss how the confluence of social science and computational sociology can contribute to a richer understanding of how emerging social technologies shape and are shaped by people ’s everyday practices . For the past year , I have been investigating the everyday work practices of a large service organization to understand the relationship between formal and informal ways whereby workers accomplish their work , looking particularly into the ways in which they manage and build “ work social networks . ” Prior to this , I conducted a series of studies ( ethnographic and otherwise ) in the use of social networking system in people ’s daily life as means to understand the emerging practices around these systems . In other words , I have been particularly interested in understanding the emic meanings of social networking as such practices become increasingly mediated by information and communications technologies ( ICT ) , or more recently , social technologies . These studies in particular revealed that irrespective of the technology , people engaged in highly complex social interactions and practices that resembled more their everyday face to face interactions rather than a particular form of “ online ” interaction stripped off of a local meaning .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
This in fact resonates with ethnographic studies of social technologies . Miller & Slater ’s [ 6 ] ethnographic study of the Internet , for instance , shows how people use such technologies to reify traditional social values and practices . On a different note , Friedlander [ 4 ] describes how practices of portraiture on social networking sites resemble ( and draw upon ) the long standing , traditional practices of self presentation and identity making that date back thousands of years in the ancient Egypt and more modernly in the XVI Century . Hence , he shows that the same level of social complexities , care , and thoughts of traditional painted portraits carry over to today ’s self representation on online social environments . Nafus et al . [ 7 ] on the other hand questions the very notion of ‘voice’ in the ways in which social technologies is often described in business settings , and the qualitative difference between the abstract ways that relationships are ‘afforded’ on social network sites and how Brazilians actually enacted social networking . In critical terms , technologies were the medium rather the ‘enabler’ of sociability . As we continue investigating the ways in which the uses ( and adoption thereof ) of these technologies evolve , we observe the fluidity whereby people appropriate , use , and dispose different technological solutions as means to support distinct social engagements , practices , and values . In so doing , we reflect on this issue as we attempt to reconfigure the ways in which social technologies are designed and ultimately used .
( ethnographically and otherwise ) how
Research on social networking systems ( SNS ) , let alone on social networking , is hardly a new site of investigation . Since late 1990 ’s we have witnessed the rise ( and occasionally the fall ) of major social network enterprises in the mainstream public arena , such as , SixDegrees , Friendster , Orkut , and Facebook , to name just a few , that enabled the creation new forms of sociality mediated by information and communication technologies . Most notably , Wellman , boyd , and colleagues [ 2 , 3 , 5 , 9 , 10 ] have examined social networking sites and technologies are appropriated and used by people as sites of sociability , identify creation and negotiation , and cultural production . In tandem , organizations became increasingly more interested in such “ social technologies ” to help them address critical , challenging business concerns : namely , internally , workforce and knowledge management , and , outside , customer relationship management . In a thorough review of the literature on social technologies in organizations , Treem and Leonardi [ 8 ] properly state that for the most part these studies take an “ application focus , ” that is , they either focus on the effects of particular features on the use of these technologies or on providing insights about how the use of the technology affects particular work practices .
493 More recently , we have witnessed the reemergence of the field of computational sociology , which make use of computationally intensive methods for modeling and analyzing different kinds of social phenomena . With the widespread use and adoption of social technologies on the Internet , a plethora of ‘social’ data became available for research examination and scrutiny . This has allowed researchers to employ sophisticated statistical methods so as to investigate , develop , and test a wide spectrum of social theories . Social network analysis , for instance , lies in this field . While this has shown invaluable in describing broader social phenomena , it falls short of enabling researchers and practitioners as well to gain insights on how ordinary people actually interpret and employ social networks in their everyday affairs as a practical problem ( as opposed to a conceptual one ) . In my recently research , I have been particularly interested in the integration of qualitative and quantitative methods that allows to gain deeper , qualitative insights on large quantitative data sets . Inspired by Anderson et al . ’s [ 1 ] “ ethno mining , ” I have been investigating ways in which the use of visual representation of large data sets can help us better understand particular social contexts . In this talk , I thus present introduce this methodology as well as some of my recent work that attempts to better understand how the everyday practices of IT service delivery workers . In conclusion , I would like to encourage a debate on the ways that we , researchers , can take advantage of the increasing availability of social data – traces people leave behind on various systems they interact with daily – and our ongoing quest for understanding people ’s practices , behaviors , and the like .
2 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Anderson , K . , Nafus , D . , Rattenbury , T . and Aipperspach , R .
Numbers Have Qualities Too : Experiences with EthnoMining . Ethnographic Praxis in Industry Conference Proceedings , 2009 , 1 2009 ) , 123 140 .
[ 2 ] boyd , d . and Heer , J . Profiles as Conversation : Networked
Identity Performance on Friendster . City , 2006 .
[ 3 ] boyd , d . m . and Ellison , N . B . Social Network Sites :
Definition , History , and Scholarship . Journal of ComputerMediated Communication , 13 , 1 2007 ) , 210 230 .
[ 4 ] Friedlander , L . Friending the Virgin : Some Thoughts on the Prehistory of Facebook . SAGE Open , 1 , 2 ( July September 2011 ) .
[ 5 ] Garton , L . , Haythornthwaite , C . and Wellman , B . Studying Online Social Networks . Journal of Computer Mediated Communication , 3 , 1 1997 ) .
[ 6 ] Miller , D . and Slater , D . The Internet : An Ethnographic
Approach . Berg Publishers , 2000 .
[ 7 ] Nafus , D . , de Paula , R . and anderson , k . Abstract 2.0 : If We
Are All Shouting , Is There Anyone Left To Listen ? Ethnographic Praxis in Industry Conference Proceedings , 2007 , 1 2007 ) , 66 77 .
[ 8 ] Treem , J . W . and Leonardi , P . M . Social Media Use in
Organizations : Exploring the Affordances of Visibility , Editability , Persistence , and Association . Communication Yearbook , 362012 ) , 143 189 . in
3 . Short Biography Rogério de Paula is a research manager at IBM Research – Brazil , leading the Social Enterprise Technologies Group . He is also member of the Center for Social Business at IBM Research . Rogério has over 10 years experience conducting empirical qualitative research the design , use , and adoption of collaborative technologies . He is particularly interested in models and patterns of social interaction in people ’s everyday life and work . At IBM , his research focuses on understanding the human aspects of large scale service practices in order to devise new service models , technologies , and theories to shape and improve its social business solutions . Before joining IBM , he was for 6 years a Intel where he conducted ethnographic studies and designed new technologies for the Emerging Markets Platforms Group in Brazil . His research focused on understanding how everyday practices and new media affect the design and adoption of computing technologies . Lately , he led a research and innovation initiative , which aimed of identifying new academic and industry partnership opportunities for Intel Brazil . In 2004/2005 , he was a post doc at University of California Irvine , where he investigated the relationship between privacy and security in people ’s everyday interaction with technology . He holds a PhD in Computer Science with an emphasis on the social and cultural studies of technology , which investigated the design and adoption processes of a socialnetworking system . research scientist at
494
