Some Clues on Irony Detection in Tweets
Larissa A . de Freitas
PUCRS , FACIN
Porto Alegre , RS , Brazil
Aline A . Vanin PUCRS , FACIN
Porto Alegre , RS , Brazil alinevanin@ymailcom
Renata Vieira PUCRS , FACIN
Porto Alegre , RS , Brazil renatavieira@pucrsbr larissafreitas@acadpucrsbr Marco N . Bochernitsan
PUCRS , FACIN
Porto Alegre , RS , Brazil marcobochernitsan@acadpucrsbr
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing
General Terms Languages , Theory
Keywords Microposts , Twitter , irony detection
1 . SUMMARY OF THE STUDY
Microposts on Twitter allow users to express ideas and opinions dynamically , although in a very limited space . The high volume of data available provides relevant clues about the judgment about certain products , events , services etc . While in sentiment analysis the common task is to classify the utterances according to their polarity , the detection of ironic statements represent a big challenge for this task . In this study , we analyze and implement some patterns that may be associated to ironic statements in Brazilian Portuguese . A common ground between the author of the tweets and their audience is required in order to establish some background information on the text ; thus , contextual features , such as the specificity of a domain , the period of time , the textual support and genre ( Twitter and tweets , for example ) , are considered .
Irony may be seen as a complex mechanism of communication that is governed by pragmatic principles , and it is often confused with sarcasm , satire or parody . In this study , we will base the task of capturing irony on a general concept for this phenomenon , since there are no consensus opinions on a rigid definition . We base the implementation of the patterns in the works of [ 1 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 2 ] , [ 4 ] . We follow a pragmatic view , in which the context is organized as the reader is in touch with the text . This is based on information the reader knows about the textual genre ( tweet format , time , domain and type of content ) and on what is written . The elaboration of the patterns that would involve possible evidences of ironic messages considers the following : syntactic rules , POS tagging , some static expression , list of laugh
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . ter expressions , specific punctuation , and symbolic language ( like emoticons ) .
The expression “ fim do mundo ” ( “ end of the world ” ) was chosen as our specific domain , and the search was made by using this exact expression in Portuguese . By the time we started collecting the corpus ( from December 19th to 23rd ) , this was the trending topic on Twitter . This subject is a(n ) ( mis)interpretation of a claim in the Mayan calendar , according to which a probable date to the end of the world was foreseen by this people . Since most people could not believe in the truthfulness of this polemic fact , and this claim can be confirmed in the analysis of the corpus content , it was expected that the subject was the target of humorous and ironic comments throughout the texts1 .
Given the domain , the corpus was extracted from Twitter through a script , built in programming language Java , developed to collect tweets with the expression “ fim do mundo ” . In order to facilitate the integration of the application Java with Twitter services , we used the library Twitter4J2 . We limited the capture by using a geo localization function , that is , tweets in Portuguese which were posted in the region of Porto Alegre RS Brazil ( measure 15km from the center of the city ) . After that , we observed and annotated possible patterns for Brazilian Portuguese that may be related to ironic statements especifically . A list of patterns was implemented in Python , and the interface of the system was developed with library PyQT3 , and each pattern was analyzed separately in a different tab by a judge , a linguist who categorized each tweet as ironic/sarcastic ( Y ) or not ( N ) .
The collection of posts by Twitter users under the domain “ fim do mundo ” is composed of 2.780 tweets ( 55.663 words)4 . Fifteen patterns were implemented , and they were classified in seven categories , as follows : ( C1 ) lists ; ( C2 ) exact expressions ; ( C3 ) part of speech ; ( C4 ) part of speech + exact expressions ; ( C5 ) part of speech + lists ; ( C6 ) part of speech + named entities ; ( C7 ) demostrative pronouns + named entities ; and ( C8 ) symbols ( Table 1 ) . From these patterns , 370 tweets were extracted and analyzed manually by the judge ,
1Irony is the phenomenon we want to illustrate , and we intend to test and compare the patterns with other corpora in future works . We chose a specific domain to establish a context for the interpretation of the tweets . 2http://twitter4jorg/en/indexhtml 3http://wwwriverbankcomputingcouk/software/pyqt/intro 4The collected dataset is available by contacting the authors of the study .
635 who observed that 269 of them were correctly identified , and this gives a 72 % precision for the proposed approach5 . In this study , no agreement measure was computed .
Table 1 : List of patterns .
Categories Patterns
Expression
C1
C2
C3 C4 C5 C6 C7
C8
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7
P8
P9 P10 P11 P12 P13 P14 P15
List of Laughter Expression
List of Emoticons
“ s´o que ”
“ sim , ” “ seria ”
“ na boa ”
“ medo ” | “ Medo! ” | “ #medo ” “ #ironia ” | “ #sarcasmo ” “ “ #joking ” | “ #kidding ”
ADV + ADV | ADJ + ADJ “ t˜ao ” + ADJ or “ t˜ao ” + ADV
ADJ + List of Emoticons
DET + ADJ + ( PREP+DET ) + NE
Demostrative Pronouns + NE
<EXPR>! !*|?*|!*?*|?*!*
We have conducted tests using the Portuguese lexicons ( SentiLex 2.06 adjectives ) and Portuguese TreeTagger7 . In tests , we used 16.833 SentiLex adjetives . Also , we constructed a list of laughter expressions , a list of emoticons and a list of demonstrative pronouns .
Table 2 : Manual tagging results .
Patterns
Number of detected tweets
163
117
The main results are shown in Table 2 in which we can observe that patterns related to symbolic language , such as laughter marks and emoticons , which are intrinsically linked to humorous messages , are the best hints to irony and sarcasm . Also , the use of heavy punctuation , that is , repetition of quotation and exclamation marks , leads to clues to ironic statements . Patterns related to static expressions were proven to be bad search choices , given the low output results and the generalized uses of these expressions . This conclusion does not apply to pattern P3 , as “ s´o que ( n˜ao ) ” is culturally considered a static ironic expression . The patterns which were not found in our corpus ( P8 , P9 , P10 , P12 , and P13 ) will be tested in future works . Although P11 does not present a significant result , we still believe − given our
5This result is similar to some existing state of the art approaches , especially the one developed by Gonzalez Ibanez et al . [ 2 ] . This positive result corroborates the efficacy of the study . 6http://dmirinesc idpt/project/SentiLexPT 02 in English 7http://gramaticausces/˜gamallo/taggerhtm
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P11 P14 P15
46 53 2 11 30 5 38 16 2
Number of tweets considered ironic ( 82.60 % ) 38 ( 92.45 % ) 49 ( 100 % ) 2 8 ( 72.72 % ) 12 2 29 10 2
( 76.31 % ) ( 62.50 % ) ( 100 % ) ( 71.77 % )
( 40 % ) ( 40 % ) language users’ intuition − that it would be possible to find better results in other corpora .
From the analysis of the corpus and the elaboration of the set of patterns described above , a system was developed for future studies . It allows the extraction of the patterns and manual tagging . The system has two tabs : in the first tab , called “ Pattern detection ” , tweets are recovered according to the choice of a specific pattern ; the second tab , called “ Manual tagging ” , presents an option for selecting a tweet and manually classifying it according to the type of irony ( ‘jocularity’ , ‘hyperbole’ , ‘understatement’ and ‘rhetorical questions’ ) .
Even though this is an initial study , we believe that we could offer relevant results in establishing those fifteen patterns for irony , since they represent a challenge in Sentiment Analysis in the sense that this phenomenon might compromise much of the results when mining opinion on certain subject . Although some of them could not be tested by using the corpus “ fim do mundo ” , we could extract significant clues for this phenomenon of language . In future works , we will test these same patterns in other corpora , and we will also develop comparative studies . As native speakers of Brazilian Portuguese , our intuition is that they represent strong tendencies for irony/sarcasm . More tests with other domains will be run to analyze the accuracy of the established patterns . Based on the observation of the behavior of language in other corpora , it is possible that new patterns may be added to this list , as well as some of the existing ones may be excluded if they provide irrelevant results .
We intend to develop patterns with diminutive forms , for example , which are very common in Portuguese to express positive sentiments , like affect , tenderness and intimacy , but they may also have sarcastic or ironic connotations when the intention is to depreciate or insult certain entity [ 1 ] . Another topic that might enter in future discussions is the use of quotation marks , which , as suggested by Carvalho et al . [ 1 ] , “ are frequently used to express and emphasize an ironic content , especially if the content has a prior positive polarity ” . Also , we intend to implement the possibility of detecting tweets with more than one pattern .
2 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Carvalho , L . Sarmento , M . J . Silva , and E . de Oliveira . Clues for detecting irony in user generated contents : oh!! it ’s “ so easy ” ; ) . In Proceedings of the 1st International CIKM Workshop on Topic sentiment Analysis for Mass Opinion , pages 53–56 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] R . Gonzalez Ibanez , S . Muresan , and N . Wacholder .
Identifying sarcasm in twitter : a closer look . In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , pages 581–586 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] O . Tsur , D . Davidov , and A . Rappoport . Icwsm a great catchy name : Semi supervised recognition of sarcastic sentences in online product reviews . In Proceedings of the Fouth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , pages 162–169 , 2010 .
[ 4 ] A . Utsumi . Verbal irony as implicit display of ironic environment : Distinguishing ironic utterances from nonirony . Journal of Pragmatics , 32(12):1777–1806 , 2000 .
636
