Ontology based Feature Level Opinion Mining for
Portuguese Reviews
Larissa A . de Freitas
PUCRS FACIN
Porto Alegre , Brazil larissafreitas@acadpucrsbr
∗
Renata Vieira
PUCRS FACIN
Porto Alegre , Brazil renatavieira@pucrsbr
ABSTRACT This paper presents a thesis whose goal is to propose and evaluate methods to identify polarity in Portuguese user generated reviews according to features described in domain ontologies ( experiments will consider movie and hotel ontologies Movie Ontology1 and Hontology2 ) .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Feature Level , Ontology , Opinion Mining , Sentiment Analysis
1 . PROBLEM
In the last decade humans have come to share their opinions in social media on the Web ( eg , forum discussions and posts in social network sites ) . Opinions are important because whenever we need to make a decision , we want to know others points of view . The increasing interest of industry and academia in opinion mining is partly due to its potential applications , such as : marketing , public relations and political campaign . It is important to mention that , although natural language processing have a long history , little research had been done about opinion text before 2000 [ 7 ] .
Nowadays opinion mining has been investigated mainly in three level of granularity ( document , sentence or feature ) . According to [ 6 ] , both the document level and sentence level analyses do not discover what exactly people liked or not . Studying the opinion text , mainly feature level , is extremely challenging . For the ordinary user , it is too complex to analyse opinions about object and object features in the great number of online review sites and personal blogs on the Web .
∗advisor 1http://wwwmovieontologyorg/2010/01/movieontologyowl 2http://ontolpinfpucrsbr/Recursos/Hontology/20120417owl
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
In the literature , recent works about ontology based feature level opinion mining are [ 14 ] and [ 8 ] . Our research intend to use ontology in the task of feature identification . In our work the term “ features ” or “ object features ” are represented by concepts , properties and individuals of ontologies − for example movie , isActorIn and “ Ice Age 3 ” , respectively . An object denote the target entity that has been commented on . Still , the orientation of an opinion on a feature indicates whether the opinion is positive , negative or neutral .
This paper is organized as follows : Section 2 presents state of the art ; Section 3 describes the proposed approach ; Section 4 details the methodology ; preliminary results are discussed in Section 5 ; some conclusions and future work are finally presented in Section 6 .
2 . STATE OF THE ART
According to [ 2 ] opinion mining research has two main research directions : sentiment classification and feature level opinion mining [ 5][10 ] . The steps of feature level opinion mining are : to identify the object features in review , to decide whether the review is classified was positive , negative or neutral and , to summarize the discovered information .
Binali ( 2009 ) [ 3 ] presents an overview about feature level opinion mining , where : object extraction refers to the entity extraction in reviews ( eg , movie ) ; objects features extraction refers the components ( or parts ) and attributes ( or properties ) extraction ( eg , title ) ; object features sentiment detection refers to the sentiment about each feature ( eg , good title ) ; object sentiment detection refers the global sentiment expressed in relation to an entity ( eg , recommended , not recommended ) ; object comparing refers to the opinion between two entities ( eg , movie A and movie B ) ; object features comparing refers to the opinion between two features entities ( eg , title movie A and title movie B ) .
Other recent works involving ontology and opinion mining have been proposed , such as : [ 14 ] , [ 15 ] , [ 8 ] and [ 11 ] .
Ontologies provides a formal , structured knowledge representation , with the advantage of being reusable . They also provide a common vocabulary for a domain . In [ 8 ] , the Movie Ontology describe in OWL3 is enriched with WordNet4 synonyms and populated with IMDb5 informations ( Figure 1 ) . In [ 11 ] , Formal Concept Analysis ( FCA ) is used for movie ontology construction . In [ 14 ] ontology construction is divided in two steps : at first sentences with con
3http://wwww3org/TR/owl features/ 4http://wordnetwebprincetonedu/perl/webwn 5http://wwwimdbcom/
367 junctions and seed concepts are selected ; after the concepts are extracted . An hybrid model of ontology construction was adopted by [ 15 ] . The top down process started with IMDb metadata , that is organized in five main sections ( title , production status , cast , crew , and miscellaneous ) and , the bottom up process that involve content analysis . opinion mining module tuples with object features and polarity are generated .
Figure 2 : Overview of the method .
3.1 Preprocessing
A set of Portuguese reviews are pre processed , in which we use tokenisers , sentence splitters , POS taggers and lemmatizers . 3.2 Feature Identification
After the pre processing step , we use ontology ( concepts , properties , instances and hierarchies ) for feature identification . In [ 14 ] ontology concepts are identified in sentences . In [ 8 ] besides ontology concepts , properties and instances are identified in sentences . Differently of traditional feature identification methods , [ 8 ] calculates the feature importance based on frequency and position in the text . We intend to use the same strategy of [ 8 ] , but instead of dividing reviews in three equal parts based on the number of words in the texts , we divide reviews in three equal parts based on the number of sentences in the texts . 3.3 Polarity Identification
For polarity identification we use list of adjectives , verbs , nouns and adverbs and their polarities . Portuguese opinion lexicons appeared in 2010 [ 12 ] [ 13 ] . SentiLex 2.0 [ 12 ] has 82.347 words and OpLexicon [ 13 ] has nearly 30.322 words in Portuguese . In the literature , many works about opinion mining use SentiWordNet6 . SentiWordNet 3.0 [ 1 ] is a fragment of WordNet 3.0 manually annotated for positivity , negativity , and neutrality . Each synset has three numeric values ( Pos , Neg e Obj ) in the interval [ 0.0 , 10 ] Both [ 14 ] and [ 8 ] calculated polarity of the feature using SentiWordNet . This resource has nearly 117.000 words in English . 3.4 Opinion Mining
The opinion mining step generates a set of tuples containIn our approach we use ing features and their polarities . linguistic rules in windows of words .
4 . METHODOLOGY
In this work the main idea is to apply ontology based feature level opinion mining in Portuguese reviews . In reviews preprocessing we used the Portuguese TreeTagger7 . The
6http://sentiwordnetisticnrit/ 7http://gramaticausces/ gamallo/tagger.htm
Figure 1 : Some concepts of Movie Ontology .
The literature shows that there are different levels of knowledge representation : authors using complex structures [ 8 ] [ 11 ] [ 15 ] − even if they not use all the knowledge available − and authors using just simple structures [ 14 ] for feature identification .
The only work that we found which reuse ontology is [ 8 ] , the others build their own ontologies . A common point is the use of IMDb data .
In our work we intend to use complex structures and to use ontology in the feature identification step . Currently we are using only ontology classes . Unfortunately , the ontologies cited in [ 11 ] , [ 14 ] and [ 15 ] are not available . The only ontology available that we found was the Movie Ontology . Our work focuses on obtaining an ontology based feature level opinion mining method in the same line of [ 14 ] and [ 8 ] , but considering Portuguese language .
Ontologies provide a structured knowledge representation and a common vocabulary for a domain ( eg movie and hotel domain ) . Since the same opinion text can be presented in different levels of knowledge , ontology based opinion mining may help both for ordinary and expert users . For example , at the high level an opinion may refer to a film “ genre ” wheres at the low level the same opinion may be based on the concept “ action ” . Besides , we intend develop linguistic rules for Portuguese , since linguistic rules vary from language to language .
3 . PROPOSED APPROACH
This section presents the proposed approach ( Figure 2 ) . Similar to [ 14 ] and [ 8 ] approaches , our work is composed of four main steps . Initially , the algorithm receives as input a set of reviews which are pre processed . After , explicit aspects are identified in the reviews using ontology terminology . The polarity measurement relies on a lexicon of tagged positive , negative , and neutral opinion words . Finally , in
368 TreeTagger is a tool for annotating text with part of speech and lemma information . For example , for the sentence “ Um dos melhores filmes que j´a vi! ” [ “ One of the best movies I have ever seen! ” ] obtains the following lemmatized words accompanied by their grammatical categories ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Portuguese TreeTagger output .
Token
Um dos melhores filmes que j´a vi !
Tag DET
PREP+DET
ADJ NOM PREP
V V
SENT
Lemma um de melhor filme que
<unknown> ver
!
4.1 Review Databases
For our studies we are considering two main review databases in the domain of movies ( a common domain in this area ) and the hotel review domain .
In our initial tests , we took 180 accommodation Portuguese reviews ( 10.706 words ) . The reviews are about Small and Medium Hotels in the Lisbon area , [ 4 ] . The information sources are Tripadvisor8 and Bookingcom9
The concepts used to identify explicit aspects in accommodation reviews are provided by Hontology . Its current version , has 282 concepts , 8 object properties and 31 data properties . Hontology is the first multilingual ( Portuguese , English , Spanish and French ) ontology for the accommodation domain .
And other database available contains 150 Portuguese movie reviews ( 8.999 words ) extracted from the Omelete10 . The concepts used to identify explicit aspects in movie reviews are provided by Movie Ontology . This ontology has 78 concepts , 30 object properties and 4 data properties . 4.2 Opinion Lexicon
OpLexicon is a Opinion Lexicon provided by [ 13 ] . We removed of OpLexicon the list of adjectives in Portuguese contains 23.433 entries , such as excellent , promising , worse , and incorrect ( Figure 3 ) . This list is composed by the name of the adjective and a polarity which can assign one of three values : 1 , 1 and 0 .
Using the list of adjectives we analyse the opinion orientation expressed on each feature . If the word in a pre processed review is a concept of ontology , we create a window of seven words and we search these words in the list of adjectives . At least one word of the window should be in the list of adjectives for the sentence polarity to be calculated . 4.3 Tuple Generation
For example , for the sentence “ EXCELENTE!! O Ryan Gosling ´e o ator mais promissor da nova gera¸c˜ao!! O cara consegue comover a gente at´e contracenando com uma boneca!! 5 OVOS! ” [ “ EXCELLENT!! The actor Ryan Gosling is the most promising of the new generation!! The guy can move
8wwwtripadvisorcom 9wwwbookingcom 10omeleuolcombr
Figure 3 : OpLexicon Example . up we opposite with a doll! 5 EGGS! ” ] obtains the following window for actor concept “ Gosling ´e o ator mais promissor da ” . We get 3 words before actor concept and 3 words after this concept . In the list of adjectives the word “ promissor ” [ promising ] have polarity 1 ( positive ) . In summary the tuple generate in this case is ( actor , positive ) .
5 . PRELIMINARY TESTS
We conducted some initial tests of proposed approach . The 180 accommodation comments and the 150 movie comments , which constitutes the sets used in our experiments were evaluated by a human . Polarity was classified as positive or negative . We evaluated the algorithm against the human evaluation .
The concepts hotel , room , and lunch were the most mentioned in the accommodation reviews . And the concepts movie and genre were the most mentioned in the movie reviews . Other concepts were not explicitly mentioned in the reviews therefore they are difficult to be detect polarity automatically .
According to these results , applying the algorithm in accommodation comments we find a recall for hotel concepts with positive polarity of 0.58 and precision of 0.10 [ 4 ] . For movie comments we find a f measure for movie concepts with positive polarity of 062
6 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK This paper introduced state of the art and preliminary results about ontology based feature level opinion mining . So far no works about this topic was found for Portuguese language . The algorithm to deal with Portuguese online reviews is presented . Also , this work intends to summarize opinions about objects and objects features in different levels for the ordinary or expert users .
As future study , we will work on the improvement of the results reached by the algorithm . We plan to verify the interannotator agreement using the kappa coefficient . Moreover , we intend to use lemmatizer in preprocessing and properties , instances and hierarchies of ontologies in identification feature . Also , we plan to add list of verbs , list of adverbs and list of nouns in polarity identification . At last , we will apply a set of linguistic rules , such as : negatives , intensifiers [ 9 ] and irony/sarcasm detection . Linguistic rules , for example , vary from language to language .
Besides , we intend to study ways of solving problems such as different words ( eg , filminho and film˜ao ) that refer to the same concept .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Aline Vanin for helping in review . We thank the Brazilian funding agency CAPES for the scholarship granted .
369 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Baccianella , S . ; Esuli and F . Sebastiani .
Sentiwordnet 3.0 : An enhanced lexical resource for sentiment analysis and opinion mining . In 7th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation , 2010 .
[ 2 ] T . Bhuiyan , Y . Xu , and A . Josang . State of the art review on opinion mining from online customer ’s feedback . In 9th Asia Pacific Complex Systems Conference , 2009 .
[ 3 ] H . Binali , V . Potdar , and C . Wu . A state of the art opinion mining and its application domains . In International Conference on Industrial Technology , 2009 .
[ 4 ] M . Chaves , L . Freitas , M . Souza , and R . Vieira . Pirpo :
An algorithm to deal with polarity in portuguese online reviews from the accommodation sector . In 17th International Conference on Applications of Natural Language Processing to Information Systems , 2012 .
[ 5 ] M . Hu and B . Liu . Mining opinion features in customer reviews . In 19th national conference on Artifical intelligence , pages 755–760 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] B . Liu . Sentiment analysis and subjectivity . In
Handbook of Natural Language Processing , Second Edition . CRC Press , Taylor and Francis Group , 2010 .
[ 7 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis . Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , 2:1–135 , 2008 .
[ 8 ] I . Penalver Martinez , R . Valencia Garcia , and
F . Garcia Sanchez . Ontology guided approach to feature based opinion mining . In International Conference on Applications of Natural Language to Information Systems , 2011 .
[ 9 ] L . Polanyi and A . Zaenen . Contextual valence shifters .
AAAI Spring Symposium on Attitude , 20:1–10 , 2004 .
[ 10 ] A . Popescu and O . Etzioni . Extracting product features and opinions from reviews . In Proceedings of the conference on Human Language Technology and Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 339–346 , 2005 .
[ 11 ] K . P . P . Shein . Ontology based combined approach for sentiment classification . In 3rd International Conference on Communications and Information Technology , CIT’09 , pages 112–115 , Stevens Point , Wisconsin , USA , 2009 . World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society .
[ 12 ] M . J . Silva , P . Carvalho , and L . Sarmento . Building a sentiment lexicon for social judgement mining . In 10th International Conference Computational Processing of the Portuguese Language , 2012 .
[ 13 ] M . Souza , R . Vieiras , D . Busetti , R . Chishman , and
I . M . Alves . Construction of a portuguese opinion lexicon from multiple resources . In 8th Brazilian Symposium in Information and Human Language Technology , 2012 .
[ 14 ] L . Zhao and C . Li . Ontology based opinion mining for movie reviews . In 3rd International Conference Knowledge , Science , Engineering and Management , 2009 .
[ 15 ] L . Zhou and P . Chaovalit . Ontology supported polarity mining . Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 59:98–110 , 2008 .
370
