Saving , Reusing , and Remixing Web Video :
Using Attitudes and Practices to Reveal Social Norms
Catherine C . Marshall
Microsoft Research , Silicon Valley
1065 La Avenida
Mountain View , CA 94043
1 650 693 1308 cathymar@microsoft.com
Frank M . Shipman
Department of Computer Science
Texas A&M University
College Station , TX 77843 3112
1 979 862 3216 shipman@cstamuedu to establish
ABSTRACT The growth of online videos has spurred a concomitant increase in the storage , reuse , and remix of this content . As we gain more experience with video content , social norms about ownership have evolved accordingly , spelling out what people think is appropriate use of content that is not necessarily their own . We use a series of three studies , each centering on a different genre of recordings , to probe 634 participants’ attitudes toward video storage , reuse , and remix ; we also question participants about their own experiences with online video . The results allow us to characterize current practice and emerging social norms and the relationship between the two . Hypotheticals borrowed from legal research are used as the primary vehicle for testing attitudes , and for identifying boundaries between socially acceptable and unacceptable behavior . Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ Information Systems ] : Communications Applications . General Terms Design , Experimentation , Human Factors , Legal Aspects . Keywords Video reuse , social media , property rights , social norms . 1 . INTRODUCTION The growth and ubiquity of video as an everyday medium raises new issues about its ownership and control . Before the advent of inexpensive digital video production and display tools , video belonged in a handful of distinct realms . On one hand , home movies were used to record special occasions and family events ; on the other hand , professional video was the realm of experienced videographers who used the medium primarily for entertainment and education . The distinction between professional video and amateur video is blurring . Home video producers can purchase sophisticated cameras and video manipulation tools that were once limited to professionals . Although not all home video enthusiasts have the talent and skill to make professional quality videos , they do have access to the means of production and venues for distribution . A popular amateur video on YouTube or Vimeo may have cost little to produce , and may garner as many views as a movie or TV
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janiero , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2035 1/13/05 . series that cost millions to make and is available through a for pay subscription service like Netflix or Hulu . Sites like Funny or Die blur the distinction further , as homemade videos vie with professionally made web series for audiences’ attention ; in fact , this blurring is sometimes purposeful , as amateur videos aspire to be mistaken for professional videos and vice versa . At the same time , because modern video is a digital medium—and therefore easy to download , copy , republish , and remix professional video makers ( and some amateurs ) are nervous about protecting their assets , either via law , technology , or explicit provisions of a service ’s terms and conditions . It is unusual for video producers and consumers to even be fully aware of the applicable laws , pivotal legal cases , policies , and provisions that restrict copying or ( more infrequently ) promote reuse . To further complicate matters , social media sites like Facebook and Twitter make it easy to repost videos to reach new audiences . Many competing interests are at work . Generally video sharing services and file storage sites err on the side of caution : why provoke needless copyright infringement lawsuits ? Similarly , professional media production concerns such as Sony and Disney aggressively push forward to protect their assets [ 27 ] . Meanwhile , non professionals may have other concerns : why prohibit distribution if what you’re seeking is fame ? Amateur videomakers rely on a combination of sharing , remix , and reuse to achieve viral status . At the same time , personal video makers may rely on privacy through obscurity [ 32 ] . Given these tensions , developers , service providers , and policy makers are faced with a number of decisions that will influence users’ behaviors ; concomitantly , as scholars such as Lessig point out [ 13][14 ] , social norms are emerging that guide peoples’ behavior and attitudes . We are interested in characterizing these social norms , and exploring the practice of saving and reusing different recorded genres . We do this by performing three related studies that gather peoples’ reactions to a series of hypotheticals ( modeled after those used in legal research [ 24][31 ] ) and the characteristics their video use . We are specifically interested in three common practices—saving video on personal storage ; reusing video as is in new venues ; and remixing video content to create new forms—along with questions introduced by new technologies such as cloud storage and social media as well as questions raised by concepts like permission , attribution , and community contributed metadata . To provide background for this study , we first summarize related work . Next we describe our method and characterize the participants and their use of online video . We then present findings about participants’ attitudes toward the storage and reuse of recorded media . Finally , we discuss the implications of these findings on design and policy .
885 2 . RELATED WORK Studies of video sharing have explored how people upload and share content and the communities this activity creates [ 25 ] . Two research areas more closely related to our studies investigate ( 1 ) the design of systems to support video remix and ( 2 ) the automatic identification of reuse/remix in video collections . Support for Video Reuse . Video reuse relies on existing video content . Most video sharing sites are not designed to support remix . An exception is Metavid.org , an archive of congressional presentations intended as the raw footage that will serve as fodder for remixes [ 4 ] . Video remixing also relies on tools for collecting and editing existing video while creating a new video , eg [ 29 ] . Some tools focused on particular classes of video . For example , Vihavainan et al . [ 33][34 ] explore the design and use of tools for remixing videos recorded by audience members at a concert . Looking at the effect of technology design on remix practice , Diakopoulos et al . [ 5 ] explore how constraints of a remixing service influence users’ creations and how users’ values related to authorship affect the design of the service . Detection of Reuse . Much of the research in the detection of video reuse explores techniques for recognizing the overlap within video collections ( eg deduplication ) . A few studies go beyond the identification of reuse and discuss applications of the results of this process . San Pedro et al . [ 27 ] describe the application of tags based on identifying remix within YouTube . A more specific study explored how using the results of remix detection to automatically provide attribution compares with human attribution [ 21 ] . In their study of identifying video memes through duplicate detection , Xie et al . [ 35 ] found a considerable amount of remixed content and that the mix of content from citizen journalists and traditional news media varies depending on the topic . 3 . METHOD We conducted a series of studies to investigate emerging ethical norms and current practice associated with saving and reusing online video crowdsourced questionnaires this data ; each questionnaire was implemented as a Mechanical Turk Human Intelligence Task ( HIT ) following published best practices [ 6][11][12 ] . Participants were solicited from US based Turkers who had a history of reliable task completion and were self reported users of the media type and genre in question . By imposing these restrictions , we hoped to ensure a background level of cultural congruity ; participants were thus subject to the same legal system and were exposed to many of the same cultural touchstones . Each of the three questionnaires we discuss was designed around a different media type or genre , and sought to characterize participants in several ways that would afford straightforward triangulation among questions and would give us a reasonably nuanced picture of who they were , what they thought , and what they did . First , we collected some standard demographic information ; this information helped us understand what kind of people were filling out the questionnaires . For example , were they students ? Was Mechanical Turk their primary income source ? How experienced were they as Internet users and content contributors ? Second , we set up familiar hypothetical situations— for example , recording a job interview over Skype—coupled with variations of each situation ’s details to elicit some basic responses that would reflect the participants’ attitudes about saving and reusing online content . Finally , we asked participants about content . The to elicit studies used
Media type/genre Interview podcast Recorded Video Academic lecture
Study 1 ( PC ) 2 ( VC ) 3 ( ED )
Table 1 . Study identifiers , focus , number of responses and questionnaire structure
Length
Demographic
Hypotheticals
Practice
Other
22 20 25
5 5 4
3 3 3 themselves to be other their own practices , for example , what kind of video they had shared or watched themselves . Two reading comprehension questions helped ensure that participants were paying adequate attention to the scenario details . Table 1 summarizes the three studies . The number of acceptable responses is reported along with the total ( in parentheses ) . Length refers to the number of questions in the HIT , including the comprehension questions and a concluding question ( “ Would you be willing to work on more HITs like this one ? ” ) that we used to make sure the Turkers were not unhappy with our approach ( reported in the “ Other ” column ) . The studies yielded 634 valid responses out of a total of 719 responses . Throughout this paper we use the abbreviations listed in column 1 to refer to the specific studies and to label participant quotes ( eg PC014 refers to participant 14 in the podcast study ) . We approached data quality issues conservatively : we erred on the side of caution and discarded data based on a point system . Unanswered questions , violations of the going in restrictions ( eg , participant reported than Englishspeaking ) , a suspiciously short work time , or wrong answers to the comprehension probes were each worth one point . If participants scored 2 or more points , their data was discarded . We paid participants according to standard Mechanical Turk rates even if we discarded their data . The point system gave us a means to retain data from participants who might have found one or two questions confusing , or who completed HITs prior to accepting the work ( a common practice reported in online forums like Turker Nation ) . In practice , bad responses were easily detected from a participant ’s answers to the open ended questions , but the point system allowed us to handle borderline cases consistently . Our scenarios set up a series of hypothetical situations in which facts were varied to test aspects of participants' attitudes about the ownership and control of online video content . Specifically , we tested the fairness associated with four standard actions : storing video content , sharing video content , republishing video content , and removing video content . The facts characterize standard features of the situation : the type of online content , where it is stored , and the stakeholders who are taking the actions . For example , we use a series of hypotheticals to vary whether the person taking the action owns the material , is portrayed in the material , or is peripherally involved in the creation of the material ; similarly , we use hypotheticals to vary the extent of the content that is affected ( eg does the action involve all of a work or only a short excerpt ? ) and to explore other ethical dilemmas having to do with digital content ownership and manipulation , including concepts such as permission , anonymity , and privacy . We recount the podcast scenarios and hypotheticals in greater depth as an example to show how the hypotheticals work . The podcast scenarios revolve around 4 named characters : two on air hosts , an engineer who helps them record the weekly show , and a guest who is on the particular podcast in the scenarios . First we vary who saves the podcast to his local hard drive to test the concept of ownership and storage : can any of the people involved in the podcast ’s production save the podcast ? We use a slipperyslope construction to move from one hypothetical situation to the next . Once we have explored aspects of the connection between
# responses 225 ( 239 ) 200 ( 229 ) 209 ( 250 )
42 40 44
12 12 12
886 Table 2 .  Summary of scenarios used in the studies and the main concepts they test this trend , attracting a recordings
Ownership , local storage , transcoding , permission , republication , ownership , storage , republication , and remix of social metadata .
Concepts tested Ownership , local storage , reuse , remix , excerption , commercial v . non commercial reuse , permission , removal of social metadata v . removal of primary content . Ownership , local storage v . cloud storage , reuse , remix , excerption , parody , educational use , reposting on social media v . publication on a comedy website .
What type of Turker responds to this sort of questionnaire ? As we might expect , the population is dominated by Turkers in their twenties and thirties ( born in the 1970s and 1980s ) ; only about 13 % were born prior to 1970 and about 13 % were born after 1989 . Although often this type of research is reported to have an uneven femalemale ratio [ 10 ] , our studies run counter fairly to balanced population . 55 % of the podcast study participants are male , as are 53 % of the videoconferencing study participants and 50 % of the educational study participants . They report being welleducated ; over 90 % said they have attended at least some college and over 60 % have a college degree . About 1/3 are currently students . This self reported characterization is supported by participants’ responses to open ended questions . Although the participants are completing questionnaires for pay , generally Mechanical Turk is not reported to be a major source of income ; rather many participants either have free lance jobs in the digital economy ( eg as graphic designers , programmers , IT support , fact checkers , writers , or editors ) , or they do other types of work that places them in front of a computer for much of the day ( clerical , library , or paralegal work or office management ) . 5 . PRACTICE RELATED FINDINGS In past studies , we have found that participants are better able to reflect on specific ethical questions if they have had to address them in their own experience ; they are less apt to fall back on hyperbole and apocryphal stories . Thus we asked about videosharing experience in a number of ways : via a check box list of online activities ( PC,VC,ED ) , via open ended questions about online activities and online publishing ( PC,VC,ED ) , via an openended question about video sharing and reuse in the abstract ( VC ) ; via a multiple choice question about what they did with the last useful video they had encountered ( ED ) ; and via a yes/no question about whether they had ever shared non music recording ( PC ) . Their answers paint a broad brush picture of current practice that is useful in interpreting other results and in further understanding the population that the participants represent .
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 %
Figure 1 . Participants’ online activities
PC ED VC
Study 1 ( PC )
2 ( VC )
3 ( ED )
Description of central scenarios Two comedians host a weekly interview format podcast ; an engineer ( who records a podcast of his own ) helps them with production . This week ’s guest , a musician , performs a parody of a popular pop song during his interview . A fan tags the interview , which enables an ex band member to find the episode and comment on it . The podcast is re edited and republished under a variety of circumstances . A computer programmer ’s job interview is conducted via Skype . He records the interview and shares it with a friend ( to help a friend apply there too ) . When he is not offered the job , he posts the interview on YouTube in an effort to interest other employers in him . He also republishes it with a commentary track to help others interview better ( using only his side of the interview ) . Finally he turns it into a parody for a comedy website . An astronaut delivers a popular commencement address at a large public university ; she talks about the importance of the manned space program . The lecture is published on a free online service that requires special software be installed on the viewer ’s computer ( the service also provides for pay content via this delivery vehicle ) . A geologist critical of the manned space program blogs a rebuttal . the material is republished . Then we switch ownership and storage , we test republication ( without any further modification of the podcast ) ; this test moves into adding content before the participant ’s attention from the creators to the guest and his actions : can the podcast ’s guest take the segment he appears in and modify it before republishing it ? Can he excerpt a song he performed on the podcast and sell it separately ? The situations gradually test the edges of the participants’ ethical boundaries . These types of scenarios and hypotheticals are borrowed from legal theory , where they are used to help legal scholars explain doctrine and explore the moral underpinnings and consequences of legal rules [ 15][31 ] . Hypotheticals are used widely in the law [ 16 ] and may be used to "present , support and attack positions ( eg , by testing the consequences of a tentative conclusion , pressing an assertion to its limits , and exploring the meaning of a concept)" and to "factor a complex situation into component parts ( eg , by exaggerating strengths , weaknesses or eliminating features)." ( [24 ] , p . 168 ) Thus we borrow a technique widely used in law schools and in certain oral argument situations ( eg the US Supreme Court makes extensive use of hypotheticals to decide cases ) and apply it to elicit everyday attitudes toward the storage and reuse of digital video content . This enables the participants to reason about the ethical forces involved in the scenarios without requiring that they imagine potentially widely varying details themselves ; it also allows us to make meaningful comparisons between their Likert scale responses to the questions . Table 2 summarizes each scenario and the concepts it tests . 4 . PARTICIPANTS Because they are Turkers , participants are likely to be Internetsavvy ; we also require that they have some investment in video content ( as users ) . These limitations are imposed by design ; we are more interested in people who have actual experience working out ownership and reuse questions for themselves , for example as they repost videos in Facebook or create YouTube videos . They will have grappled at least implicitly with questions like , “ will I get caught if I use Dropbox to share this copyrighted movie with my friend ? ” or “ is it okay for me to post a homemade music video based on my favorite band ’s hit song ? ” Although it is unlikely participants will have encountered the specific situations we pose in the hypotheticals , they will have less trouble imagining them than someone who has little experience with video .
887 First , let ’s look at the three questions common across studies . Participants were asked to check off their online activities . Figure 1 shows that almost everyone reports using email and social networking . Video sharing is the fourth most popular activity , more common than photo sharing ( at odds with the population at large ) . A parallel open ended question supports this finding . Some participants clarified the activities they picked from the list ( eg by shopping , they meant bidding on eBay items ) ; others filled in gaps by citing activities we did not list ( eg finding and listening to music ) . Many participants reported watching videos , curating the best to share with friends or more broadly on sites like Reddit : “ I upload videos to YouTube & DailyMotion ( occasionally ) ” [ PC089 ] or “ I've shared video/podcasts/articles on line . ” [ ED037 ] Amateur and professionally produced videos are reported to be a seamless part of an online media diet : “ I use [ the Internet ] to read up on news , watch TV Shows , upload videos on YouTube , interact with friends on Facebook , shop , and read email . ” [ PC125 ] As a secondary probe , we asked participants what they publish online ; 161 out of 634 participants cited publishing video content . We did not make a bright line distinction between sharing and publishing . Nor did we distinguish between publishing original content or republishing found media . We wanted to see if participants would make these distinctions themselves , and to see if any ownership and reuse issues arose organically before we presented the hypotheticals . Reports varied . Some referred to profile creation and status sharing as publishing , indistinguishable from other types of sharing ; eg ED195 reported she publishes “ Various status updates , some profile details such as gender and age , Pictures , videos , funny stuff , informational/education videos or stories . ” Under this rubric , participants said they published personal videos ; eg ED188 said “ I have a blog about my life and my dogs , I post to Facebook about my life and my dogs , I post videos on YouTube . ” Other participants mentioned creative efforts or cited a mix of genres : “ I have shared/published articles , a few short ( self made ) films , and I have re published videos made by myself or others . I occasionally share photos . ” [ PC089 ] Many participants described republishing multiple content types they had encountered ; eg PC022 said she published : “ Pictures , Basic information on myself , stories/quotes/videos I have found online . ” To many , curation is tantamount to publishing . ED207 said “ …I publish any interesting documentary or video related to science . And I published a few instructional videos on software usage . ” He acknowledges the value of his curation of science videos by reporting it in tandem with posting his instructional videos . The distinction between curation and publication may also be enforced by site ( eg Pinterest v . LinkedIn ) and genre ( articles v . profiles ) : “ I share pictures , videos , and articles with friends on Google+ or Pinterest . I have a public profile on Google+ and on LinkedIn which gives personal information about myself and my work history . ” [ PC224 ] Participants feel that certain genres such as comedy and instruction invite republication without concern for content rights , eg ED068 said she published both humorous and educational material : “ videos from funny or die or from Youtube also share videos related to education for nurses ( my former career ) . ” Studies of encountered information ( eg [ 17 ] ) have found that sharing published material may have social motivations such as educating friends or keeping in touch : eg “ I share videos or articles that I feel my friends would like or should know about ” [ VC190 ] Some responses hinted at more subtle ownership and reuse issues . VC027 said he published “ …footage of gameplay from video games . ” The gameplay was his , but the game content was not . Does the subject of a video own sufficient interest to publish it ? VC140 reported that he published videos not just by him , but also of him : “ I usually publish videos of me doing things , like DJ'ing… ” How broadly are rights extended through one ’s friends and family ? PC153 said that he “ Posted video of [ his ] son's band on youtube ” Participants also raise a distinction between audio and video tracks ; eg PC148 said “ …Occasionally I might post a video of something from the travels but generally it's just still images . I am leary [ sic ] to jump into the world of audio/podcasts , I keep quiet while videotaping . ” We explore the separation of audio and video streams in greater depth via the hypotheticals . A few responses imposed a linguistic separation between the two terms : one shares what one has found , and one publishes what one has recorded . For example PC141 said he “ Share[s ] links to interesting websites and videos . Publish videos of pets . Publish pictures of vacations , home , and garden . ” Each study included one or two genre specific practice oriented questions . We briefly explore these responses with the thought that they reveal the participants’ backgrounds , and further contextualize the quantitative portions of the studies . Keeping podcasts . In the podcast study , we focused on keeping , because it is unlikely that participants create or remix podcasts . Thus we asked how many podcasts participants subscribed to and how many they retained after they had listened to them . Out of 225 responses , more than 60 % ( 141 ) listen to between 1 and 10 podcasts regularly , and about ¼ listen sporadically . Only 11 % listen to more than 10 podcasts regularly . Over half ( 57 % ) store at least some of podcasts with the intention of permanence . By contrast , 25 % delete them after listening and 15 % relegate retention to software control . These results show that the storage scenarios familiar decision—can participants intentionally keep content that they’ve downloaded ? Watching and creating educational videos . In the educational video study , we focused on what participants had watched and whether they had ever created this type of video . Again , we were interested in discovering how far the scenarios were from their own experiences . Most commonly , they had used educational videos occasionally ( 44% ) , but it was also fairly common to have used them frequently ( 28% ) . Some participants had used them in school ( 18% ) , and about 10 % had completed entire video courses . While this made us confident that participants were familiar with educational videos , we wondered if these videos were academic ( reflecting the responses and identified eight subgenres of instructional videos listed in Table 3 , including Humanities and Social Sciences ( HSS ) ; Science , Technology , Engineering , and Math ( STEM ) ; professional development ( eg law , EMT , criminal justice , nursing , journalism ) ; how to tutorials ( on practical topics such as auto repair ; hobbies ; and self improvement ) ; technology use ( how to use hardware , software , and video games ) ; broad topic series ( eg TED Talks ) ; language learning ; and miscellaneous responses ( eg “ anything I find interesting ” [ ED135] ) . the scenario ) or practical . We open coded represent a
Table 3 . Genres of instructional videos viewed Genre HSS STEM
Technology Use
Genre
# 68 64 58 47
% 33 % 31 % 28 % 22 %
Professional Dev . How to Tutorials
# 34 22 14 10
% 16 % 11 % 7 % 5 %
Talk Series Language
Misc .
888 them forwarding
Finally , we wanted to find out if participants created or recorded educational videos . Almost one third ( 31 % ) had recorded classes ; 15 % had shared these recordings online . Nearly as many ( 14 % ) had created their own educational recordings ; 8 % had published them on sites like YouTube . Taken together , 22 % had published an educational video that they had recorded or created . Using and recording videoconferences , and sharing videos . In the recorded videoconference study , we wanted to confirm that participants had used Skype or other videoconferencing tools . Exposure to videoconferencing and experience with video sharing were basic qualifications for understanding the hypotheticals . Only 2 % of the participants reported never having used videoconferencing , and 6 % had tried it once . Most commonly , participants were occasional ( 42 % ) or weekly users ( 30% ) . Frequent or daily users made up 20 % of study participants . About two thirds ( 133/200 ) reported that they had shared videos , although we suspect they underreported reuse of copyrighted material , since most reported sharing footage they had recorded themselves . Table 4 shows the video sharing breakdown . Open coding started with a distinction between amateur , found , and professional videos ; further distinctions emerged from patterns in the data . Creative efforts are videos participants created or were the subject of , and represent efforts to produce planned artistic works . Everyday documentaries are ‘point and shoot’ videos that the participant had a hand in creating ( as videographer or subject ) . Found videos are similar to everyday documentaries , except that participants are curators rather than creators , finding the videos and to others . Republished videos are professionally made—eg , TV clips , movie trailers , or music videos—or are recorded from professional performances . The miscellaneous category primarily consists of responses from participants who believe they have not shared the type of videos we are asking about . A few participants justify this as a conscious decision : “ I have not published any video content the reason is because I know once you put something out there , it's there for good ” [ VC161 ] Each category raises different ownership and control issues , issues we anticipate that the participants have become aware of through their own experiences . For example , do subjects or performers have the same rights to content as videographers ? Do members of one ’s social network have more rights than strangers ? Do public figures have a reduced expectation of privacy ? Does genre have an effect on rights ? Does the extent of distribution—or attempts to limit it—matter in determining future rights to reuse ? If someone records street performers in a public place ( in VC048 ’s case , breakdancers in the subway ) , does he or she need to obtain the dancers’ permission prior to posting the video on YouTube ? Copyright legislation ’s fair use provisions and existing case law address many of these situations , but it is rare for people to have an accurate picture of what these provisions are , even if they are in professions that rely on fair use . For example , Aufderheide et al . have found that journalists are seldom aware of what fair use provisions dictate , and are indeed more conservative than they need to be [ 2 ] . Similarly , we might expect the study participants to reason about the video sharing instances they report , but we might also expect this reasoning to be based on an emerging notion of fairness and social norms rather than on legal concepts . Reuse in the abstract . We asked videoconferencing participants about reuse as a general practice . Almost without exception , they
#
19
Table 4 . Video categories , frequency in data , and use examples Category Creative effort ( eg performance , film , sketch comedy ) Everyday documentary ( of or by family members ) Everyday documentary ( of or by friends ) Everyday documentary ( vacation/travel footage ) Everyday documentary ( pets )
23
Example “ Srgt . [ sic ] Richard Cleener was the last video I uploaded to youtube . It was a weekend film challenge and it turned out great! ” [ VC135 ] “ My son making fart noises with his arm . So that the family could see . ” [ VC128 ] “ I shared a memorial video to a friend who was killed in Iraq . ” [ VC006 ] “ video of vacation to Egypt , to share with family and friends ” [ VC144 ] “ I took video of my cat rolling around on the floor and eating candy . ” [ VC038 ] “ I had shot a video of a positive PPD ( Mantoux ) on my arm a while ago.I posted it so that others who go through this test will have a rough idea about what will be their end result if at all they take the test . ” [ VC093 ] “ I produced a small seminar for work , and posted the video via DailyMotion… ” [ VC044 ] “ I share video highlights of my basketball team . ” [ VC107 ] “ It was a dog balancing 36 treats on its nose . Thought it was hilarious , so decided to share . ” [ VC136 ] “ I shared a video that talks about the SOPA bill… ” [ VC016 ] “ The last video I shared was "baby languages" it is a part of an episode from Oprah about 5 sounds that all babies make and what they mean… ” [ VC047 ] “ It was a brief clip from a sketch comedy show . I shared it because a friend of mine has a thing for Scottish men , and I thought the Glaswegian comedian would brighten her birthday . ” [ VC193 ] “ I have not shared a video not comfortable with it . ” [ VC080 ]
19
8
18
Everyday documentary ( instruction , diagnosis , reviews )
Everyday documentary ( business related ) Everyday documentary ( sports/videogames )
Found video
Professional video ( specific subgenres ) Professional video ( movie and tv clips , commercials , music videos )
Performance video ( recording of interview , music , standup , etc . )
9
8
12
12
8
8
7
49
Miscellaneous negative responses interpreted the question in terms of the study ’s scenarios , which involved publishing a recorded job interview . Thus , in contrast to our other practice derived findings , participants’ answers reflect aspirational beliefs rather normal behavior ( similar to what we see happening when privacy questions are pursued [ 1] ) . Recorded videoconferences fall under the rubric of what we’re calling ‘everyday documentary’ ( or what Hill and MonroyHernandez refer to as functional works [ 9] ) . They take the focus off the video ’s artistic merit or commercial value , and instead explore issues like fairness , privacy , and anonymity . What would participants think were central ideas , preconditions , and issues for the distribution of videoconference content ? At one end of the spectrum were participants who felt there should be no publishing restrictions and at the other were participants who felt it was never acceptable . Contrast VC016 ’s response with VC179 ’s : “ I think it is ok at all times . The person is recording something that they are doing on their own so they should have complete rights to the recording . It is originally theirs . ” [ VC016 ] “ it is almost never a good idea . a videoconference is almost always a "closed door" meeting , and just because it can be recorded doesn't mean that it should… ” [ VC179 ] We open coded participants’ responses and found that they generally reasoned about reuse starting from four situational elements : ( 1 ) the content itself and various aspects of the content ( eg did it reveal confidential , private , or embarrassing
889 information ? Was it libelous or malicious? ) ; ( 2 ) the production context ( eg were the people in the videoconference notified beforehand? ) ; ( 3 ) the reuse context ( eg the purpose of publishing the recording ) ; and ( 4 ) the legal and technological circumstances ( was copyright being infringed? ) . The dominant concepts we identified within these four overarching categories are shown Table 5 . If different concepts appeared in a single response , we coded the response in multiple categories . The counts show the relative frequency of each category . These themes and other recurring concepts ( eg minors should be treated differently ; credit should always be given ; recording can be done for archival purposes ) may serve as a bridge to the attitude related findings we explored through the hypotheticals presented in the next section . As in law , the hypotheticals push participants into stating various boundaries that may not have appeared when they discussed their own practices or their attitudes in the abstract . 6 . ATTITUDE RELATED FINDINGS Our past studies have shown that experience crucially shapes and refines peoples’ attitudes toward ownership [ 17][19 ] ; it is from this experience that social norms emerge . The results from the practice oriented questions suggest we thus focus our analysis of the responses to the hypotheticals on the two actions that are common to participants’ experience : saving and reusing online video . Table 2 summarizes the three scenarios we used to drive the hypotheticals—a multi creator comedy podcast , a recorded videoconference of a job interview , and a recorded scientific talk . In this section , we delve into details of individual hypotheticals as we examine aspects of saving and reusing . The hypotheticals related to saving explore four aspects of ownership : ( 1 ) the distinction between creator and subject ; ( 2 ) the difference between local storage and cloud storage ; ( 3 ) the distinction between primary content ( ie the recording ) and secondary content ( eg comments and reviews ) ; and ( 4 ) the effect of content transformations ( eg format changes ) on perceptions of ownership . Storing content on the cloud provides a venue for probing the boundary between saving and sharing ; the cloud potentially exposes the content to external parties , although it is not explicit sharing . Transcoding ( converting the video from one format to another ) also pushes on the boundary between storage and reuse by posing potential content changes . Next we explore concepts associated with reuse . In the scenarios , reuse appears in its most recognizable form : the video content is taken from one online venue and republished in another . The hypotheticals make a distinction between republication—where content is taken in its entirety and put on a different site or presented to a different audience—and remix , where the content is manipulated or excerpted and used in different ways ( eg the genre may shift from instruction to comedy ) . Again , we look at issues that arise from reuse of associated secondary content , including social metadata such as comments or tags . In this group of scenarios we also examine concepts from participants’ responses to open ended questions in past studies , including permission , credit , commercial v . non commercial use , manipulation and fraud , and changing the mood of the work ( eg from serious to funny ) [ 18][19 ] . The results are organized by scenario , so the responses to the successive hypotheticals can be compared .
Table 5 . Participants’ reactions to reusing recordings
Situational element
Example
“ …I think it is okay when it is informative information or impersonal items but personal events should be kept private . ” [ VC059 ] “ [ It ’s okay ] when it's good for the public interest , as long as it does not violate nondisclosure and/or confidentiality agreements … ” [ VC136 ] “ …I say you would need … to let them know ahead of time that it could be shared . I don't think it is ok to post any recording if someone in it is unaware… ” [ VC171 ] “ It's ok to share video content if it belongs to you or you get permission from the person the videoconference content . ” that made [ VC071 ] “ Recording and sharing of videoconference content is OK when all parties have granted permission… ” [ VC131 ] “ I think it would be okay … if it is in a public space . ” [ VC095 ] “ It's ok when it is done with permission or when it won't undermine someone else's legitimate expectations . ” [ VC022 ] “ Recording videoconferences I [ am ] 100 % OK with , as long as the recording party intends to keep it for personal use . When publishing and sharing gets involved , things become less simple… “ [ VC088 ] “ …Meetings can be shared to help people who miss them catch up Also , there should be some restrictions as to who can access these meetings . ” [ VC189 ] “ I think it is okay when it is intended as an archive for those who were involved in the videoconference , or for documentation . For example , I have weekly videoconferences as work with employees in other states and countries , and they recorded videos serve as proof of the decisions we made , and as resources for employees… ” [ VC188 ] “ I believe it is only okay when it is for entertaining or informing purposes . I thinks [ sic ] it is a bad idea when it involves a situation like the one this survey was about because it may allow people to get jobs which they are under qualified for . ” [ VC091 ] “ …It is a bad idea when it is done maliciously or to cause harm by reputation or slander . ” [ VC078 ] “ …If you remove names and specific content and use it as a guide it's ok by me… ” [ VC078 ] “ …Only the edited down versions where the owner has claim to the video ie : his face and voice , should be allowed . ” [ VC125 ] “ If the content is publish[ed ] one should expect it to be available and searchable by other people . ” [ VC178 ] “ It should be subject to the same regulations as e mails : anyone who is a party should be able to do whatever they like with it… ” [ VC197 ] “ …I like that the internet is still mostly unregulated and am against anything that regulates it like SOPA . ” [ VC191 ] “ Be very careful and be certain it is not anything you care deeply about because once it is out there it is no longer yours to control . ” [ VC056 ]
Concept personal content confidential content recording notification
#
35
27
40 permission or consent
104 scope public space or person expectation of privacy
68
16
15 personal use
14 internal use/ limited distribution good intentions/ helping others or education misuse libelous intentions imposed anonymity technology dictates use legally regulated
7
20
7
16
24
3
6 content production context reuse context legal and technological circumstance conditional reuse is fine/ control of online content is ultimately impossible
105
890 6.1 Podcast 6 In n the podcast sc s saves the record J Jordan ) , a behind g guest , Rocky . Fig s studies , saving i b believe that if yo s save it locally . A a almost no differe p podcast . On the o th he guest ( Rock d difference betwe s statistically signi t scenario cenario , we first ding : an on thed the scenes crea gure 2 shows th s generally unco ou encounter con All three alternati ence between wh other hand , there ky ) should be a een the response ificant ( p<.0001 , t explored wheth air creator of ator ( engineer C e results . As we ontroversial . Par ntent online , you ives trend highly hether Chip or Jo e is mild hesitat able to save th es for Rocky and , Wilcoxon signe her it matters wh the podcast ( ho Chip ) , or a podca e have seen in pa rticipants seem u should be able y positive ; there ordan can save th ion about wheth he recording . Th d the other two ed rank test ) . ho ost ast ast to to is he her he is
Figure 2 . R A A more controv r epublishing par th hrough a series b between republis th he authority to g r esults of the fir p posit republicatio c creator and gues in nstead of full re d during the origin r emix ( bonus m emoved ) . In the r e episode , but also
Responses to sav versial activity i rt or all of an of nine hypoth sh as is and remi grant permission rst six hypotheti on of the recordi st . The third hy publication ( Roc nal recording ) . H material is adde final hypothetic republishes the ving podcast hy in prior questio existing work . heticals . The fir ix ; the final three n to republish . F icals . The first ing as is ; the va ypothetical look cky excerpts a s Hypotheticals fo ed and intervie cal , the guest no comments along ypotheticals . en onnaires has bee his We explore th sh rst six distingui has e explore who h he Figure 3 shows th als two hypothetica en ariation is betwee use ks at partial reu ed song he performe sit our and five po are ew segments a t only remixes th he x . g with his remix
Figure 3 . R T The results show a acceptable than h hypotheticals . M c creator ( Chip ) sh w website than th s statistically sign
Responses to reu w that republishin the form of More participants hould be able to he guest ( Rocky nificant ( p<.04 ) using or remixi ng the whole epi remixing we s believed the republish the ep y ) should . Thi ) . Commercial ing podcast . isode as is is mo described in th behind the scen pisode on his ow s difference w reuse was al ore he nes wn was so explore from th elicited When publish more s 47 % n created differen whethe podcast user co remixed skeptic 6.2 V Meetin that en are rais scenari job inte ed : guest Rocky he podcast so he d 64 % positive a presented with hed a remixed ve sharply divided , negative respon d the remix did nce in the respo er Rocky could t on his own w omments attache d version . No cally of all . Videoconfer ngs may be con nables the meetin sed by these re ios in which inte erviews . a new song hypothetical performance of y excerpted his p n iTunes . This h e could sell it on e responses . and 24 % negative in which Chip a hypothetical ersion of the wh hole episode , op positive respons with 41 42 % ly . The variati nses respectivel n a statistically d not result in final hypothetic onses ( p<13 ) A sh a remixed ve not only publis copy some of website , but also nal podcast to p ed to the origin this was vi ot surprisingly , p or Rocky pinions were ses and 45on in who y significant cal explored ersion of the the positive promote the ewed most rence nducted using v ngs to be record ecordings ? Our erviewees Bill an videoconferencin ded . What owne second questio nd Kyle record S ng software ership issues onnaire uses Skype based responses
Figure 4 . Resp ponses to saving first set of hypot theticals , Bill re a software com mpany . Saving since Bill reco roversial , but red if saving th he recording mi nough , while m most of the parti or his own use , t the interview fo th han for any o aving content . W eticals about sa fference between ew to test the dif it in the clo oud . From the Bill shares the r etical in which B utes it more bro adly online . A f ary track about t ying a commenta es . Figure 4 sho ows the progres eticals . stinction betwee cloud provoked pants may have ave found cloud ave less understa 6 % agreed that B d who was also l when publication d a commentary es . en saving locally d a significant d viewed cloud s d storage as a ste anding of cloud s Bill could share looking for a job n replaced shari y track about th
In the f with a uncontr wonder Sure en record neutral hypothe intervie storing hypothe distribu overlay practice hypothe The dis on the Particip may ha may ha Only 46 a friend 27 % w overlaid practice g/sharing interv cords his own jo digital media i orded a conve ight raise additi icipants agree th there are more n other of our We also used th n saving content ere , we transiti ecording with a final hypothetica the company ’s u ssion of respon view . ob interview is normally ersation , we ional issues . hat Bill can negative and comparable his recorded t locally and ioned to a friend , then al finds him unfair hiring ses to these y and storing th drop in agreemen storage as less s ep closer to shar storage ’s implica the recorded int b ; this agreemen ing and to 18 % he company ’s u he recording nt ( p<001 ) secure ; they ring ; or they ations . terview with nt dropped to % when Bill unfair hiring
891 B But before we as th he recorded vid o of the interview e extracting his an c company nor th th hese answers to in n hopes of getti a and Don’ts ” for c comedy video in w with recordings 6 65 % of the part th hese remixes . esponses were e r p public good , eith ssume that there deoconference , w w video . In the nswers to the in e interviewer ’s create three vid ing a job , anoth job interviews , n which he rep of his brother ticipants agreed Figure 5 show elicited by remix her by providing e are no widely a we posited two m first , Bill remi nterview questio questions are i eos : one shows her adds comme and a third is laces the interv asking the ques that Bill could ws that the thr xes that showed lessons or humo acceptable uses modified versio xes the video b ons so neither th included . He us off his knowledg entary about “ D a self deprecatin viewer ’s questio stions . More tha d publish or sha ee most positiv some concern f or for others . of ns by he ses ge os ng ns an are ve for
Figur In n the final hypot a attract another em o of anonymization v video before his B Bill , edits out an th hen publishes h th hat identify the P Participants have o of the identifying ta ags can be added a and tagged the c s situation would a e 5 . Responses t thetical of the se mployer ; the det n . In this variatio own interview . H ny traces of the his new video to company and s e a significant n g tags . This pos d after the conte company portray arise . to remixing inte eries , Bill publish tails are altered on , Kyle watche He records the i company from o “ pay it forwar specify that it is negative respons es an issue for s nt is posted – if yed in Bill ’s rec erview . to hes his answers to test the effec cts o ” es Bill ’s “ How to ke nterview and , lik He the recording . H ags rd , ” but adds ta s a job interview w . on se to the inclusio nce social media sin ed someone deduce cording , the sam me
Figure 6 . Re F Figure 6 shows c can use Bill ’s an “ “ how to intervie m must get Bill ’s p K Kyle could inclu esponses to per a last remix epi nswers in his new ew ” video . 73 % permission befor ude Bill ’s answe mission for inte isode that explo w video to creat of the particip re he uses the cl ers as they were erview reuse . ores whether Ky te a more valuab ants believe Ky ips . 32 % throug already availab yle ble yle ght ble online , While n relative acknow 6.3 E Many p online . class p content online , iTunes differen peers , i In the comme explora and is numero believe mission while 43 % th not all responses e assessment o wledgement , and Educational public and instit These recordin presentations . B t often do not ha they enter into or YouTube . nt stakeholders institutions , serv study ’s primary encement addre ation . A video o made available ous comments , es NASA ’s reso ns and wants to u wledgement was consistent , they d beliefs about hought acknow s are logically c of participants’ d reuse . l Recording gs are recorded an tutional lectures ngs may be of n notable speeche stitutions that Because the in ucture to provide ave the infrastru with online servi o agreements w aire explored th This questionna in this situation n , including pres nd viewers . vice providers , an astronaut ( Sally y scenario , an a portance of ma ess on the imp of the address is s captured by th b service ; the vi through a web tags . A geologi ratings , and t e better spent on ources would be use the video to provoke discuss s sufficient . do provide a permission , nd published s or regular collect this e the content ices such as he rights of senters , their y ) delivers a anned space he university ideo attracts ist ( Cheryl ) n unmanned sion .
Figure 7 . Resp art by exploring e associated met eticals in prior es transcoding th to a more comm controversy ove l agreement that wn presentation . ve the metadata rvice ( p<03 ) In whether Cheryl , tingly , Cheryl ’s er right to save th ponses to saving g different partie tadata ( commen r studies , savin he video from th mon format . Per er saving enco t Sally can save There is somew that has been a n contrast , there Sally ’s scientifi right to save the he original video g educational vi es’ rights to sav nts , tags , etc ) In ng in this cas he web service ’s rhaps because of ountered conten and transcode t what less agreem added by other e is substantial d ic peer , has the e metadata is see o ( p<04 ) See F ideo . ve the video n contrast to e explicitly s proprietary f this we see nt . There is the video of ment that she users of the disagreement same rights . en as greater Figure 7 .
We sta and the hypothe involve format some c general her ow can sav web ser about w Interest than he
Figure e 8 . Responses to o sharing/repub blishing educati ional video .
892 B Beyond saving th s shows that most s share the transco o on her public we th he responses to t G Given that Chery is s unsurprising th a and publish it ( p w with friends via th he results are c ( 55 % ) of partici epublish the vid r O One important c in nvolvement in c o owns this second o original content w web service ? W h hypotheticals abo r euse . Results are he video , who c t participants ag oded video with ebsite . There was these two questi yl is seen as hav hat she is also s p<0001 ) Chery Facebook is per close to symetr pants feel that deo ( difference fr characteristic of commenting on , dary content ? W or the added co We explored th out the reuse of e shown in Figur can share or repu gree that Sally s friends via Face s no statistical d ons . ving less right to seen as having le l ’s right to shar rhaps the most d ric around neutr Cheryl has a di rom sharing , p< . f social media i rating , and tagg What rights do t ontent have ? Ho hese issues thro f reviews and p re 9 . ublish it ? Figure should be able ebook and to put difference betwee e 8 to t it en it are eo on ; ity to o save the video , ess rights to sha re the saved vide divisive variatio ral . The majori iminished right 0002 ) . is the communi ging content . Wh the authors of th ow about the ho ough a series ermission for th ity ho he ost of his
Figure 9 . Resp 8 84 % of the part s selected reviews 7 76 % believe she r eviews from the w web site . The d r epublishing is si A As we mention v viewed more po a agree that Chery w with her friends s selected reviews u unmanned space a and Sally ’s righ b between sharing In n our earlier s p participants were p practices for con n number of stake r euse . We first a to o reuse the vid le ecture or the we 4 49 % thought Sa o only 32 % though p permission . The ponses to sharin ticipants agreed s of her comme e should be abl e web service wh difference betwe ignificant ( p<.00 ned earlier , Che ositively than he l can share selec via Facebook a on her own web e exploration . T hts is significan and publishing ( studies , authors e asked open en ntent reuse . The eholders that mi sked whether Sa deo from either eb service hostin ally should get t ht it was necess difference is sig ng/publishing re d that Sally has encement addre le to republish hen she posts the een the reaction 01 ) . eryl ’s rights to er rights to the cted reviews from and 50 % agree bsite to help mak he difference b nt ( p<.0001 ) as ( p<001 ) s’ permission o nded questions scenario in this ight have some ally should have the university ng the video . Fig the university ’s ary to seek the nificant ( p<.001
. eviews of video . are s a right to sha ess via Faceboo ok ; nd selected tags an wn e video to her ow ns to sharing an nd the reviews a video itself . 59 m the web servi she can republi ke her point abo etween her righ is the differen are 9 % ce sh out hts ce often arose whe about appropria s study involves say over conte to get permissio that recorded th gure 10 shows th permission whi service provider ) . en ate s a ent on he hat ile r ’s ion for igure 10 . Respo Fi onses to the conc ed ducational video se Cheryl has no o special claim t d the talk nor neither delivered would need to ed whether she web video servic iversity , or the w mission is the co e provider ’s perm ence is significa ant , p<001 ) Th of today ’s term interpretations laws . Participan ctual property l he university ’s a have to get th ses were statistic cally indistingui eded to give Che o asked who nee ound on the web s of the video fo pants thought C Cheryl should he service . ( See ’s author and th ponses to these two questions should get Sally hought Cheryl s ficantly differen s . This is signif wo questions ( p< <01 )
Becaus ( she n explore the uni service ( differe many intellec should respons We also reviews particip review’ in resp 38 % th reviews other tw cept of permiss o reuse . to the commence recorded the get permission ce provider . Aga onsidered the lea his is in direct ms of use agree nts instead thou and Sally ’s perm shable ) . eryl permission b service . Nearly get permission e Figure 11 . ) Th were not signif y ’s permission t nt than the respo ement video video ) , we from Sally , ain , the web ast necessary contrast to ements and ught Cheryl mission ( the to republish y half of the n from the he difference ficant . Only to republish onses to the iew reuse . ed with the her claim of extend to the nt creator as ay from this ts with those 0 ] , it is clear ople apply a
Figu While need to authors video ’s a proxy questio from a that rig more nu 7 . DE By ana charact associa ure 11 . Response slightly over h o get Sally ’s per ship ( she was the s comments . Do y for the commu onnaire alone , bu similar question ghts are not lim nuanced sense of ESIGN IMP alyzing data gath terize emerging ated with video es to permission half of the parti rmission , it is in e speaker in the people view the unity ’s authority ut when we comb nnaire about prod mited to the cont f ownership in su PLICATIO hered from 634 g social norm storage , reuse , a n for video revi icipants disagree nteresting that h video ) would e e primary conten y ? We cannot sa bine these result duct reviews [ 30 tent creator . Peo uch situations . ONS participants , we ms and curren and remix . Wha e are able to nt practices at comes out
893 most strongly is that participants’ attitudes and actions are constrained neither by the specific legal provisions that guide reuse , nor the terms and conditions that govern the content on most social media sites , but rather by a nuanced ethos that they have developed though experience . The question , then , is can we design technology and policy that facilitates the constructive aspects of current practice , while satisfying the more restrictive aspirational norms that participants expressed ? We observed a very real ( and understandable ) tension between the two . First , let ’s look back at the highlights of what the participants said and did . Through their account of their own experiences , we see that over 70 % of the participants report sharing videos ( we suspect underreporting , since it is so easy and unremarkable to share a video using a link ) and it is likely that even more watch videos ; many mention this specifically in an open ended question about their online activities . The podcast study shows that many participants store downloaded material with an intention of keeping it indefinitely as a personal archive . The educational video study further demonstrates that the recordings represent a range of genres , and span professionally produced material as well as amateur videos . The videoconferencing study shows that many participants have also produced their own videos , including creative efforts , personal footage , and other types of documentary recordings . Finally , also from the videoconferencing study , we learned that participants reason about reuse from different ethical perspectives , including the nature of the content , the conditions of reuse , the details of production , and the technological and legal circumstances that they are aware of . Thus participants are judging the hypotheticals we pose from a vantage point of personal familiarity and are applying their experience . Next let ’s look at the hypotheticals . From our previous studies , we believe that downloading primary content and storing it locally is essentially uncontroversial . We tested and confirmed this for online video . But we also introduced three provocative variations ( 1 ) the use of cloud storage instead of local storage ; ( 2 ) the storage of transcoded content instead of duplicate content ; and ( 3 ) the addition of secondary content to primary content ( reviews of videos v . the videos themselves ) . Cloud storage and transcoding were both situations that blurred boundaries : cloud storage takes the content out of the realm of local control ( a service provider is necessarily involved ) and transcoding means potentially making changes to the content even if those changes are not directly observable . Secondary content introduces a notion of community ownership , or at the very least , ownership dependencies . Indeed , both cloud storage and transcoding seemed to reduce participants’ comfort with saving video . Secondary content proved to be paradoxical ; ownership of primary content does not extend to secondary content , but there is a more relaxed attitude toward secondary content in general ; it may simply be regarded as less valuable . Other hypotheticals brought in republishing and remixing . What did we learn there ? As we have seen before , ownership comes into play more strongly when a video is shared or republished . In the least controversial case , an owner can fairly freely republish video content , even if there are co owners . Commercial purposes add complexity , as does remix ( especially if it violates abstract notions of fairness by , say , omitting negative reviews , or crossing the boundary into art theft [ 23] ) . This echoes some of our earlier findings : participants are sensitive to reuse situations that seem per se unfair—a recording that compromises hiring fairness , a satirical video that seems unduly mean spirited , or not asking permission when it may be advisable .
What are the design and policy implications of what we have seen ? The results clearly cannot be taken too literally : participants sometimes favor a permission based system for reuse when fair use cases establish that none is necessary [ 26 ] ( not to mention that experience suggests permission will be unobtainable [ 20] ) . They also signal certain problems with existing labeling schemes such as Creative Commons [ 3 ] , because in the abstract , participants seem more sensitive to reuse than they are when confronted with particular instances and reciprocal examples ( ie when they are the reusers ) . Nor is all reuse equal in the eyes of content creators and content reusers ; the acceptability of reuse depends on circumstantial factors like the nature of the content ( eg , is it personal? ) , the differential scope of the audience ( eg , is the reused video in the process of going viral or is it now playing to an audience of 10 ? How different is this scope from the original? ) , the type of reuse ( eg , has it been included in a clip show ? Will the video ’s original intent be distorted? ) , and the way the implied ( or explicit ) social contract between all potential owners of both the original and derived work is handled ( eg , is attribution or anonymity desired? ) . Notice that only one of these factors is known at publication time ( the nature of the content ) . Others are contingent on how the content is reused ( eg , changes in genre , audience , or publication venue ) . Still others are not revealed until time has passed ( eg the differential scope of the audience ) . That these factors are crucial to how any labeling scheme is used makes us think that supplemental mechanisms might be desirable ( hypothetical scenarios and mixed initiative dialogs to help content creators envision reuse or decide between attribution or anonymity , or triggers that reveal when the differential scope or audience has changed ) . Still others depend on , say , the motivations for storing the video ( past work tells us that individuals archive work that is not their own just as surely as institutions do [ 7][19][22] ) . Thus ownership driven questions need to be approached thoughtfully , lest we impose restrictions when none are necessary , or we do not anticipate types of reuse that will trigger the most extreme reactions when these reactions could have been averted . Our future work will continue to explore these questions on a pergenre , per media basis , using a variety of qualitative and quantitative methods to unpack assumptions , identify social norms , and look forward to an unfolding spectrum of reuse situations . 8 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported in part by National Science Foundation grants IIS 1049217 and DUE 0938074 . 9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Acquisti , A . and Grossklags , J . Privacy Attitudes and Privacy Behavior , in J . Camp and S . Lewis ( Eds . ) The Economics of Information Security , Kluwer , Boston , pp . 165 178 . [ 2 ] Aufderheide , P . , Jaszi , P . , Boyles , JL , and Bieze , K .
Copyright , Free Speech , and the Public ’s Right to Know : How Journalists Think about Fair Use , ( July 30 , 2012 ) . Retrieved from http://dxdoiorg/102139/ssrn2119933
[ 3 ] Boyle , J . The Public Domain : Enclosing the Commons of the
Mind , Yale University Press , New Haven & London , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Dale , M . , Stern , A . , Deckert , M . and Sack W 2009 .
Metavid.org : a social website and open archive of congressional video . In Proc . DGR '09 , 309 310 .
894 [ 5 ] Diakopoulos , N . , Luther , K . , Medynskiy , Y . and Essa , I . The evolution of authorship in a remix society . In Proc . HT '07 . ACM , New York , NY , USA , 133 136 .
[ 6 ] Downs , J . , Holbrook , M . , Sheng , S . , and Cranor , L . Are your participants gaming the system ? : Screening Mechanical Turk workers . Proc . of CHI’10 . ACM , 2399 2402 .
[ 7 ] Greengard , S . Digitally Possessed . Communications of the
ACM , 55 ( 5 ) , 2012 , 14 16 .
[ 8 ] Hill , B . , Monroy Hernandez , A . , and Olson , K . Responses to
Remixing on a Social Media Website . Proc . AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media . 2010 . 74 81 .
[ 9 ] Hill , B . and Monroy Hernandez , A . The Cost of
Collaboration for Code and Art : Evidence from a Remixing Community . Proc . CSCW 2013 . ACM . 1035 1046 .
[ 10 ] Ipeirotis , P . Analyzing the Amazon Mechanical Turk
Marketplace . ACM XRDS 17 , 2 , Winter 2010 .
[ 11 ] Jakobsson , M . Experimenting on Mechanical Turk : 5 How
Tos . ITWorld , September 3 , 2009 .
[ 12 ] Kittur , A . , Chi , E . , and Suh , B . Crowdsourcing User Studies with Mechanical Turk . Proc . of CHI’08 . ACM , 453 456 .
[ 13 ] Lessig , L . Code , Version 2.0 , Basic Books , 2006 . [ 14 ] Lessig , L . Remix : Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the
Hybrid Economy , Penguin , New York , 2008 .
[ 15 ] Levi , E . An Introduction to Legal Reasoning . University of
Chicago Press , 1949 .
[ 16 ] MacCormick D . and Summers , R . ( eds . ) Interpreting
Precedents , Ashgate/Dartmouth , 1997 , pp . 528 9 .
[ 17 ] Marshall , C . and Bly , S . Saving and Using Encountered
Information : Implications for Electronic Periodicals . Proc . CHI'05 , ACM , pp . 111 120 .
[ 18 ] Marshall , C . and Shipman , F . “ Social Media Ownership :
Using Twitter as a Window onto Current Attitudes and Beliefs ” , Proc . of CHI 2011 . ACM . 1081 1090 .
[ 19 ] Marshall , C . and Shipman , F . “ The Ownership and Reuse of
Visual Media ” , Proc . of JCDL 2011 . ACM . 157 166 .
[ 20 ] McDonough , J . , Olendorf , R . , Kirschenbaum , M . , Kraus , K . , Reside , D . , Donahue , R . , Phelps , A . , Egert , C . , Lowood , H . , Rojo , S . Preserving Virtual Worlds Final Report . 8/ 31/2010 . [ 21 ] Monroy Hernandez , A . , Hill , BM , Gonzalez Rivero , J . and boyd , d . Computers can't give credit : how automatic attribution falls short in an online remixing community . Proc CHI '11 . ACM , New York , NY , USA , 3421 3430 .
[ 22 ] Odom , W . Sellen , A . , Harper , R . , and Thereska , E . Lost in
Translation : Understanding the Possession of Digital Things in the Cloud . Proc . CHI’12 . ACM . 781 790 .
[ 23 ] Perkel , D . The Art of Theft : Creativity and Property on deviantART . Material World Blog . 2010 . Retrieved from http://blogsnyuedu/projects/materialworld/2010/07/the_art_ of_theft_creativity_anhtml
[ 24 ] Rissland , EL and Ashley , K . Hypotheticals as Heuristic
Device . Proc . Strategic Computing Natural Language , Marina del Rey , California , May 1 2 , 1986 , 165 178 .
[ 25 ] Rotman , D . , and Preece , J . The “ WeTube ” ; in YouTube – creating an online community through video sharing . Int . J . Web Based Communities 6 , 3 ( June 2010 ) , 317 333 .
[ 26 ] Sag , M . Predicting Fair Use . Ohio State Law Journal , 73 ( 1 ) ,
2012 , 47 91 .
[ 27 ] Samuelson , P . Too Many Copyrights , CACM 54 , 7 ( 2011 ) . [ 28 ] San Pedro , J . , Siersdorfer , S . , and Sanderson , M . Content redundancy in YouTube and its application to video tagging . ACM TOIS . 29 , 3 ( July 2011 ) , Article 13 .
[ 29 ] Schmitz , P . , Shafton , P . , Shaw , R . , Tripodi , S . , Williams , B . , and Yang , J . International remix : video editing for the web . Proc . MM '06 , 797 798 .
[ 30 ] Shipman , F . and Marshall , C . Are User contributed Reviews Community Property ? Exploring the Beliefs and Practices of Reviewers . WebSci 2013 . ACM . forthcoming .
[ 31 ] Solum , LB Legal Theory Blog , entry dated July 11 , 2010 . http://lsolumtypepadcom/legaltheory/2010/07/legal theorylexicon hypotheticalshtml
[ 32 ] Stutzman , F . Twitter and the Library of Congress . http://fstutzmancom/2010/04/14/twitter and the library ofcongress/
[ 33 ] Vihavainen , S . , Mate , S . , Seppälä , L . , Cricri , F . , & Curcio , I .
We want more : human computer collaboration in mobile social video remixing of music concerts . CHI '11 , 287 296 . [ 34 ] Vihavainen , S . , Mate , S . , Liikkanen , L . and Curcio , I . Video as memorabilia : user needs for collaborative automatic mobile video production . Proc CHI '12 . 651 654 .
[ 35 ] Xie , L . , Natsev , A . , Kender , JR , Hill , M . , and Smith , JR Visual memes in social media : tracking real world news in YouTube videos . Proc . ACM MM '11 , 53 62 .
Columns on Last Page Should Be Made h
895
