New Features for Query Dependent Sponsored Search
Click Prediction
Ilya Trofimov
Yandex
16 Leo Tolstoy St . Moscow , Russia trofim@yandex team.ru
ABSTRACT Click prediction for sponsored search is an important problem for commercial search engines . Good click prediction algorithm greatly affects on the revenue of the search engine , user experience and brings more clicks to landing pages of advertisers . This paper presents new query dependent features for the click prediction algorithm based on treating query and advertisement as bags of words . New features can improve prediction accuracy both for ads having many and few views .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Informational Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; I26 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Learning
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Performance
Keywords Click prediction , sponsored search , web advertising
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Most major search engines today present two types of results : organic search results , the short snippets of text with links to relevant web pages , and sponsored search results , the small textual advertisements , displayed close by the organic results . Search engine Yandex displays most of ads on the right hand side on the page ( right ad placement ) , and the most profitable and relevant ads are placed straight above the organic results ( top ad placement ) .
Search engine returns the most relevant search results trying to give an answer to a user ’s query . That is why organic results are ranked solely based on relevance . In the same time , sponsored search results are the major source of the search engine revenue . In the most common pay per click model an advertiser is charged each time as the ad being clicked by a user . Ad ’s CTR multiplied by the bid is recognized as the revenue estimate . That is why click through rate prediction is of special importance . We recommend lectures on computational advertisement [ 1 ] for more detailed survey of on line ads problems .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Sponsored search is based on the keyword auction . The keyword auction is described in [ 2 ] : advertiser bids on the selected set of keywords , describing the product or the service . When a user types a query , search engine matches it with all keywords and selects appropriate ads to display . There are various types of matches , namely , similarities between a query and a keyword : exact match , phrase match , broad match . In the case of the exact match , the ad is eligible to appear only when the user ’s query is identical to the keyword . In case of the phrase match , the keyword must be a subset of the query . Finally , the broad match allows the ad to appear when the query coincides with a keyword automatically chosen by the advertising system .
Because sponsored search ads are only textual , text driven features are an important source of information for click prediction . Search engines often show each ad for many different queries and a click through rate can vary significantly across them . But for most of ad query pairs historical click data is insufficient and click though rate can’t be estimated directly . In this case statistical model can solve this problem . This short paper makes following contributions :
• we present a new set of binary features based on con junctions between query and ad ’s creative ;
• we study previous users ’s query in a search session as a source of useful information ;
• we adopt hashing for handling large feature space .
2 . PROPOSED MODEL
Suppose we have already some formula for click probability CT Rbase(z ) , which uses historical click statistics . Click statistics include CT R = clicks/views for several types of objects with many views , like ad and advertiser ’s domain . The base formula is described in [ 6 ] . Let ’s build a logistic model for click prediction which adjusts the base formula n
P ( click|x , z ) = f ( af
−1(CT Rbase(z ) ) + b + wixi )
( 1 ) i=1 f ( t ) = exp(t)/(1 + exp(t ) )
Click prediction formula 1 is optimized for maximum likelihood estimation with respect to the variables a , b , wi . In this formula xi are binary text based features . Each feature is non zero if some word is present in some bag of words , derived from the ad ’s creative and the query . It is important to distinguish query dependent and query independent
117 Table 1 : Relative quality improvement for different features set
Features Baseline
Shaparenko et al . [ 5 ] The proposed model
∆NLL ∆auPRC 0.0 % 0.6 % 1.2 %
0.0 % +2.6 % +6.7 %
Table 4 : Bags of words yielded by successive queries
Bag of words
Q1 PQ1 PQ2 PQ3
Definition
IsMain & v ∈ query
IsSpec & v ∈ query & v /∈ prev . query
IsSpec & v ∈ prev . query IsOther & v ∈ prev . query features . A feature xi is query independent if it is a function only of the advertisment ’s creative and the keyword . Non zero corresponding weight wi will adjust the base formula CT Rbase both for ads having many views and few views . This is inefficient , because for ads having many views CT Rbase is already a good estimate of average click through rate . This idea leads to the explicit dividing a query into two parts : a keyword ( which is always a subset of a query ) and a rest part . 2.1 Text sources of an ad
The following table presents different sources of a text in the ad .
Table 2 : Bags of words from ad ’s text sources
Bag of words
K T D QK
Definition v ∈ keyword v ∈ title v ∈ description v ∈ query & v /∈ keyword
Query depend .
No No No Yes
We consider presence of a given word v in a bag as a binary feature , eg xi = 1 ⇔ ( vi ∈ query & vi /∈ keyword ) . The same word present in different bags yields different features . First three bags of words are query independent , others are query dependent . The proposed model also contains all conjunctions between query dependent and query independent binary features from different bags , eg xk = 1 ⇔ ( vn ∈ title & ( wm ∈ query & wm /∈ keyword) ) . 2.2 Previous query
Similarity between two successive queries in a search session clarifies user ’s information need and can help to build more accurate prediction . We model this similarity by means of the binary features , which are shown in table 3 . Q denotes query words set , R previous query words set .
Feature IsMain IsEmpty InRefresh
InNext IsSpec IsGen
IsDisjoint IsOther
Table 3 : Similarity features
Condition
R = http : //wwwyandexru
R is empty
Q = R , page number = prev . page number
Q = R , page number = prev . page number + 1
R ⊂ Q ( specif ication ) R ⊃ Q ( generalization )
Q ∩ R = ∅ ( disjoint queries )
All previous conditions are f alse
For several similarity types between two successive queries we build the following bags of words which are shown in table 4 . Again we consider a presence of some word in a bag as a binary feature .
3 . RESULTS
The training and testing data sets are the top ad placement logs with users’ clicks from the Yandex search engine . Training set contains 215× 106 examples randomly sampled from the one week period . Testing set contains 28 × 106 examples randomly sampled from one day after training set . Basic text normalization like lemmatization and punctuation removal is performed for the both sets . For fitting logistic regression we used free Vowpal Wabbit software [ 4 ] . It uses hash representation [ 3 ] of all features with hash table having size 224 . Thus our model handles approximately 17 millions of features . Table 1 presents quality measures at the testing set . Baseline quality is a quality of the best logistic transformation of CT Rbase(z ) :
P ( click|z ) = f ( af
−1(CT Rbase(z ) ) + b )
Our set of features has two main differences from the features described in [ 5 ] . First , we build different conjunctions between the query and the ad ’s text sources . Second , we use information yielded by the previous query .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
Click through rate estimation plays a crucial role for ads selection . It greatly affect the search engine revenue , traffic received by advertisers’ landing pages and user experience . In this short paper we described a new set of querydependent text features . We showed that these features outperform state of art ones . Further research can include developing a more accurate way of mixing binary text based features with baseline click prediction formula and studying bigrams . It is important to add these features to the production click prediction system . Live traffic experiment will show how new features improve observed advertising system metrics like average CTR , ads relevance and revenue .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Broder and V . Josifovski . Introduction to
Computational Advertising . http://wwwstanfordedu/class/msande239/
[ 2 ] B . Edelman , M . Ostrovsky , and M . Schwarz . Internet advertising and the generalized second price auction : Selling billions of dollars worth of keywords . American Economic Review , 97(1):242–259 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] A . S . Kilian Weinberger , Anirban Dasgupta , Josh
Attenberg , John Langford . Feature Hashing for Large Scale Multitask Learning . In ICML , 2009 .
[ 4 ] J . Langford . Vowpal wabbit . Technical report , http://hunch.net/ vw , 2007 2012 . , 2007 .
[ 5 ] B . Shaparenko , O . ¸Cetin , and R . Iyer . Data driven text features for sponsored search click prediction . In KDD , ADKDD Workshop , pages 46–54 , New York , New York , USA , 2009 . ACM Press .
[ 6 ] I . Trofimov , A . Kornetova , and V . Topinskiy . Using boosted trees for click through rate prediction for sponsored search . In KDD , ADKDD Workshop , Beijing , China , 2012 . ACM Press .
118
