From Health Persona to Societal Health
Ramesh Jain
University of California , Irvine jain@icsuciedu
Laleh Jalali
University of California , Irvine lalehj@icsuciedu
Mingming Fan
University of California , Irvine mingminf@uci.edu
[ Information services ; H34
ABSTRACT In this position paper , we propose an approach for Web Observatories that builds on using social media , personal data , and sensors to build Persona for an individual , but also use this data and the concept of Focused Micro Blogs ( FMB ) for situation detection , helping individual using situation action rules , and finally gaining insights for obtaining insights about society . We demonstrate this in a concrete use case of fitness and health care related sensors for building health persona and using this for understanding societal health issues . Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ Models And Principles ] : User/Machine Systems – human factors , human information processing ; H35 [ Information Storage And Retrieval]:Online Information Services – WebStorage And based Retrieval]:Systems And Software – User profiles and alert services ; General Terms Management ; Design ; Human Factors Keywords Persona ; EventShop ; Health and Fitness ; Focused Micro Blogs ; Situation Detection ; Event Streams 1 . INTRODUCTION We are living in transformative times . Our society is going through a major transformation both at the individual level as well as at the global level . The most important factor in this transformation , the fuel powering this new engine , is the data ; particularly the objective data collected using sensors . However , data from only a specific sensor contains only partial truth about its environment . Each sensor is designed to capture a particular attribute and most objects and events have several attributes that may change with time . The fidelity of an object or an event improves with more diverse sensors to capture their attributes . These attributes are captured by sensors recording the attributes as a time varying signal at specific locations . Billions of sensors are now continuously measuring different physical attributes at most locations of interest in the world . Increasingly , a good fraction of these spatial temporal measurements are being made available on the Web , giving us opportunity to create Web Observatories .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Each data stream observed by a sensor has valuable information . When two data streams are correlated it results in valuable insights . As more data streams are correlated , better insights are created . The fact that one can gain valuable insights by correlating multiple data streams collected for the same event or same person is well recognized , but tools and techniques for doing this easily have not been developed as well . Currently , we are collecting increasing amount of such data leading to what is commonly called Big Data . Data from different sensors is usually at different spatial resolution as well as at different frequencies . Moreover , the type of data is multi modal , making the semantics of the data very different . This poses serious problems in correlating these data streams . We need efficient tools to unify and correlate all such data streams to gain valuable insights .
Before being able to perform any computational task on heterogeneous data streams , we have to unify the collected data . In this paper we propose events as unification mechanism . We consider a case of such data being collected related to a person to create the persona that may be used in different contexts . Persona is the mask or appearance of a person presents to the world [ 2][7 ] . The persona models different relevant aspects of a person for interactions or for taking specific actions involving person ’s characteristics , professional , social , health , preferences and interests ( Figure 1 ) . In this paper , we will consider health persona of using different data streams for a specific person . The data streams that we use are related to many sensors now being used by people to collect fitness data , personal events , eating habits , sleep patterns , and every day activities using mobile phones , calendar , and social networks . Our goal is to identify challenges faced in correlating data from all these diverse data streams and develop a computational platform that allows us to plug in other data streams to include them in refining the persona .
Such data collected for several individuals could then be aggregated to understand issues related to society . In most cases , such individual data is a rich source to do research in many aspects of individuals as well as society . We will discuss this aspect and propose an architecture to address collection and analysis of the data .
We use EventShop [ 3 ] as the platform to aggregate different data streams relevant to specifics of persona and build this into situations that help individuals and identify global situations . These global situations are then used to advise individuals in their personal decisions . 2 . HEALTH PERSONA Until recently and in most cases even now , all information about a person is very subjective . Consider all information related to fitness and health about an individual . We all had anecdotal
1329 3 . BUILDING HEALTH PERSONA First step in building any user centered application is data acquisition on aspects of person ’s daily life . Projects such as MyLifeBits [ 4][5 ] and many quantified self apps went in that direction . But they never go beyond collecting and storing data . Many lifelogging systems lack an explicit description of potential value for users , focusing instead on technical challenges ( such as data capture and retrieval mechanisms ) [ 15].we simply lack effective techniques for Analyzing information that involves examining it in ways that reveal the relationships , patterns , trends , etc . that would be valuable for enhancing user ’s life .
Our goal is building the health persona , by emphasizing on analysis and correlation of different data streams as different types of events occurring in person ’s life . In the following , we consider correlation among 4 different types of events : life events , food events , fitness events , and body parameters events . For creating these 4 important event streams , multiple sensors may contribute to each of these streams . As shown in figure 2 , life events can be derived from different sources of information such as personal calendar , Facebook , LinkedIn and Foursquare accounts , smart phone apps and GPS . Fitness event stream may combine data from NIKE Fuel , FitBit , Basis , programs like Moves on smart phones and other similar sources . These sensors can detect events that are not perceived by humans , such as alteration of oxygen levels in the blood or the amount of carbon dioxide or dangerous pollens in the air . Once these data streams are collected , they can be combined and correlated to identify patterns : for instance , they might determine which environmental conditions worsen a child ’s allergy or which geographical locations should be avoided by senior citizens at any particular time since they are more vulnerable to flu and other contagious diseases . This information would allow doctors to spot irregularities early , providing warnings before an illness becomes serious . Health Persona is a detailed ongoing health record which physician would have access to , and one would no longer have to think very hard to answer questions such as “ How much exercise you had last month ” or "When did you first start feeling this way?"
Figure 3 shows the creation of 4 different types of events , mentioned in figure 2 , in more details . We illustrate these events in different colors in each of these four streams . The original signals for the stream are continuous signals as captured from a sensor . Different types of events may be determined using a model to classify them and determine their time intervals . For example fitness events may be , no activity to vigorous activity . And each event may be determined by considering some activity per minute as determined by a specific sensor . Moreover , any of these event streams may be the result of the combination of multiple sensor streams . For example , activity level may be determined by considering Nike Fuel , Fitbit , BASIS [ 1 ] , and Jawbone . Each of these measures activities differently , but these measurements are correlated to actual activity levels and are aggregated to correspond to and segment the timeline according to physical activity by a person .
With these data streams the health persona is determined by combining them over a long period to gain insights about
Figure 1 Different aspects of a person information about how much exercise we do , how many hours we sleep , what we eat , and how our body is functioning . The recent information technology revolution is changing that . Using a myriad fitness and health related wearable sensors , combined with mobile phones , every minute of an individual ’s activities are being recorded that may be analyzed . We have seen a revolution that allows capturing information about ‘self’ from many sources . What we are seeing is a major shift in how we got information about individuals . In this area , we can characterize changing trends into specific stages of different types of information : 2.1 Subjective Self All information about a person was totally subjective . This information could be collected from several sources , but it was mostly subjective interpretation by a person , including self , about the state of health . 2.2 Quantified Self People started collecting information using different sensors . Usually sensors don’t lie , they give fairly objective information . Also , many sensors could be collecting data 24/7 and storing this on a server where this data could be analyzed . This data is collected using a sensor for a specific aspect of fitness or health . Such data could be visualized and some analytics could be done to help a person . 2.3 Objective Self Using multiple wearable sensors , people collect 24/7 , many different attributes related to fitness and health . Mobile phones and other sensors also collect information related to travel and location of activities that could be converted into different events in their personal life . Information from personal calendar , social networks and other similar sources is also used . All this information can be correlated to analyze lifestyle , relate it to personal health , and help people in fitness and health .
We address more detailed aspects of observing and analyzing all data sources to get objective self health information and identify needs to build a powerful platform to accomplish this.  A very thought provoking book [ 12 ] paints a very data oriented future of medicine . Future of healthcare is likely to utilize an individual ’s lifestyle to provide individual focused health services . information with personal genomics
1330 Figure 2 Building Health Persona from heterogenous sources  
  a person by correlating these event streams and drawing insights about a person ’s health . One example of such insights could be : Calendar + GPS + Motion Sensors + Health Monitor Data A calendar contains planned events , some of which may not happen . With assistance of GPS and motion sensors , we can make better inference of events that really happened . For instance , calendar indicates that Mr . A has a weekly group lunch meeting at restaurant B on Tuesdays . GPS data shows whenever Mr . A attends these meetings , and during that the motion sensors measure A ’s physical activity level , and health monitoring device BASIS records his heart rate and body temperature . On analysis of the data over last several meetings it is observed that though during these meetings Mr . A is relatively inactive , his heart rate is high and his body temperature is above normal . This correlation from different event streams suggests that there is something unusual about the meeting , or the meeting place , or the food at the restaurant . 3.1 Benefits of Health Persona The amount of money spent for health care in United States is extraordinary . The United States spends more on health care than Japan , Germany , France , China , the UK , Italy , Canada , Brazil , Spain and Australia combined [ 16 ] . Yet the outcome is not extraordinary . As mentioned in section 2.3 with the emergence of wearable sensors that can measure most fitness and body parameters , new data is available to us . Knowledge derived from this data can be used in lowering the cost of health care systems . Today most of medicine is not evidence based ; but based on randomized clinical trials on a limited population . So decision making in today ’s health care system is based on historical preferences of the physician as opposed to be data driven for each individual [ 21 ] . If physicians could have access to the history of all health related aspects of a person measured through time , the treatment process could be personalized and some costly tests and lab examinations could be waived . Here historical data is not only electronic medical records of the patient but also includes all body and fitness parameters , all the events happening in person ’s life
Figure 3 Heterogeneous Events streams
 
[ 17 ] . So we need and all food intakes . Health persona provides a computational framework that makes this possible .
Due to population growth , aging , and other factors ; it is projected that demand for physicians will outpace supply by 2025 . Simply educating and training more physicians will not be enough to address these shortages . Figure 4 shows the projected supply and demand technologies and computational frameworks being developed in this space to be an extension of a physician . Health persona as a personal health and lifestyle platform helps individuals maintain a personal health and lifestyle record for their lifetime and obtain personalized , lifestyle related recommendations to improve their health status . This has some life changing impacts that with only 3.9 average number of visits to medical services ( physician , hospitals ) [ 18 ] can never be achieved . the tools ,
Figure 4 Baseline physician FTE supply and demand projection ( 2006 2025 )
1331 3.2 Ethical and Privacy Issues Today we are living in a data age . Millions of pieces of information are generated and used by organizations every day and developments in technology have helped to make the storage and manipulation of this information much easier . Personal data will continue to increase dramatically in both quantity and diversity , and has the potential to unlock significant economic and societal value for end users . Concerns for privacy are not new . The initial legal opinion on the right to privacy dates back to the late nineteenth century . The advent of a new technology that could permanently capture a person ’s behaviors and actions was the impetus for this opinion since 1890 [ 19 ] . Fundamental questions about privacy , property , global governance , human rights – essentially around who should benefit from the products and services built upon personal data – are major issues emerging due to technological advances in the last few decades . Building the legal , cultural , technological and economic infrastructure to enable the development of a balanced personal data ecosystem is vitally important for improving the state of the world and is discussed in details in [ 20 ] . 4 . GOING BEYOND TWITTER Twitter data is so broad in scope that any topics can be found in tweets , but unfortunately all topics are mixed together . If we treat the relevant information as signal , and all others as noise , twitter data has very low signal noise ratio ( SNR ) . Use of tools like hash tags help , but do not really solve the problem . Given this about current Twitter like social network , we believe that they all suffer serious issue of low SNR and are less effective as information sources . Therefore , we propose the concept of Focused Micro Blogs ( FMB ) . FMBs are on a focused topic and are targeted to a specific source . Since the topic is fixed , the information in a FMB could be easily structured and parsed . FMBs retain the important feature of sending brief real time information of Tweets , while overcoming their weakness of combining in one place . This information is aggregated at a server designed for a specific task .
Let ’s consider one concrete example of FMB in a popular application for traffic – the Waze [ 14 ] . Waze is an application on phones that takes GPS data periodically from the phone and uses this to compute the speed of the device . This is aggregated at the server to know traffic conditions in different areas . A user may also do a micro blog using specific input mechanisms so that the system knows about a stalled car or a police officer at a specific location . By using sensor data from the phone and specific microblog inputs , a Waze server provides very useful information to its users . This is an FMB in action .
Let ’s consider a Flu application . With sensors on mobile phone , information like activity level and location is easily available . Physiological data such as heart rate and body temperature can be retrieved from wearable device , like BASIS . User ’s overall feeling and some flu symptoms can also be collected from direct interaction between user and the application . The architecture of a system to collect different data streams and then combining these is shown in figure 5 . In this architecture , Health Persona works as a server , collects and correlates health data from subscribed users . Different fitness and health related applications – like Flu or Allergy running on user ’s smart phone provide Health Persona server with accurate data . This data will be used to incrementally too many different topics build and update health persona . The longer user subscribed to the system , the more information gets collected .
Data from users gets collected in web servers corresponding to different apps . Each web server has a theme called Ti and a set of Situation Action Rules ( SAR ) . We will explain SARs in section 5 . Different applications act as different FMBs feeding data into specific servers . Applications running on the phone also feed this data to Health Persona Server which stores all health related events , as discussed above , for every user . Health Persona Server not only helps an individual , but also collects community information that may be used to deduce societal health issues .
Figure 5 Phone as a source of FMB for different applications to assist its owner in different situations .
5 . THINKING AT SOCIETAL LEVEL , ACTING AT PERSONAL LEVEL It has already been demonstrated that insights from individuals can be aggregated for the society to gain societal insights . For example Google Flu Trends [ 6 ] is a web service provided by Google uses aggregated Google search data to estimate flu activity . The idea is that certain search terms are good indicators of flu activity . But can search query trends provide the basis for an accurate , reliable model of real world phenomena ? Scientific hindsight shows that Google Flu Trends far overstated this year's flu season [ 10 ] . A pair of new projects [ 8][11 ] track Twitter posts to determine flu rates . However , Twitter crowdsourcing is less effective than search term efforts , because signal to noise ratio is very low and Twitter ’s user base tends to be younger and less reliable users .
Another example is traffic apps using user generated traffic data to draw conclusions about traffic flow . Waze , mentioned above , is the world ’s traffic and navigation app . It allows user to not only get personal heads up from other users on the road but also contribute to traffic reports . This crowdsourced platform is more reliable than apps dependent on Twitter posts such as TwiTraffic[13 ] that looks for traffic related words in tweets .
Neither Google Flu Trends nor Twitter based applications were successful enough in aggregating individual data to derive insight about a community . We need “ Waze like ” platforms to collect and correlate accurate individual data and more importantly , aggregate these data for gaining community insights . The system fastest growing community based
1332 in Figure 4 uses specific applications on a phone to supply information to a situation recognition system and uses the detected situation to help the owner of the phone . It also creates health persona for the individual while creating health personas for several people that could be aggregated and analyzed for inferring societal health issues . As a result , we have two kinds of data aggregation . One that happens in each user ’s Health Persona and the other one that happens in EventShop .
EventShop [ 3 ] is a situation detection framework that makes data aggregation possible . It ’s a generic approach to select , import , and combine real time data streams and operate on them to detect real world situations for generating appropriate information and actions . EventShop supports data from different sources . Any sensor data can be associated to a stream based on its location and frequency of creation . Aggregated data can also be visualized on a map . As a part of EventShop , Situation Detection unit detects real world situations ( eg flu activity in a region ) and based on that provides SAR units with appropriate information . Based on that , SARs send personalized recommendations to end users . This approach doesn’t suffer from high noise to signal ratio in flurelated indicators . More importantly , Users both contribute to the system and gets benefit from it . Precise community health insight naturally follows precise individual health insight . 6 . CONCLUSION Lots of personal data is being collected from various sources . By collecting and analyzing this data we can build effective personas that may in turn be used to help individuals . Moreover , by aggregating this data , we can gain insights at the societal level . We are working towards this . Also , we introduce the notion of FMBs that may be very effective in collecting and analyzing meaningful data in Web Observatories . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] BASIS . http://wwwmybasiscom/tour/ [ 2 ] Erving , G . 1959 . The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life , tweets or flu related search term
Anchor Books , ( New York , 1959 ) .
[ 3 ] Gao , M . , Singh , V . , Jain , R . 2012 . Eventshop : From
Heterogeneous Web Streams to Personalized Situation Detection And Control , ACM WebScience ( WebSci 12 ) , 105108
[ 4 ] Gemmell , J . , Bell , G . , Lueder , R . 2006 . MyLifeBits : A
Personal Database for Everything , Communications of the ACM , Vol . 49 , ( Jan . 2006 ) , 88 95 .
[ 5 ] Gemmell , J . , Williams , L . , Wood , K . , Bell , G . , Lueder , R . 2004 . Passive Capture and Ensuing Issues for a Personal Lifetime Store , Proceedings of 1st ACM Workshop on Continuous Archival and Retrieval of Personal Experiences ( CARPE '04 ) , Oct . 15 , 2004 , New York , NY , USA , 48 55 .
[ 6 ] Google Flu . http://wwwgoogleorg/flutrends/us/ [ 7 ] Jung , C . G . 1953 . Two Essays on Analytical Psychology ,
Jung ’s Collected Work #7 , ( London 1953 ) .
[ 8 ] MappyHealth . http://mappyhealth.com/ [ 9 ] Pollen Density . http://wwwpollencom/allergy weather forecast.asp
[ 10 ] Resnick , B . 2013 . Why Google Flu Trends Will Not Replace the CDC Anytime Soon , National Journal , ( Jan . 25 , 2013 ) .
[ 11 ] Sickweather . http://wwwsickweathercom/ [ 12 ] Topol , E2012 Creative Destruction of Medicine , Basic
Books , 1st edition , ( New York , 2012 ) .
[ 13 ] TwiTraffic . http://twitrafficcouk/ [ 14 ] Waze . http://wwwwazecom/ [ 15 ] Sellen , A . , Whittaker , S2010 Beyond Total Capture : A
Constructive Critique of Lifelogging , Communications of the ACM , Vol . 53 , No . 5 , ( May 2010 ) , 70 77 .
[ 16 ] Steven Brill . 2013 . Bitter Pill : Why Medical Bills Are
Killing Us , Special report TIME magazine , ( Mar . 04 , 2013 ) . [ 17 ] Dill , M . , Salsberg , D . 2008 . The Complexities of Physician . Supply and Demand : Projections Through 2025 , Center for Workforce Studies , ( Nov2008 )
[ 18 ] Janice Lloyd . 2012 . Study : Doctor Visits Decline , Uninsured
Less Healthy , USA Today , ( Oct . 2012 ) . http://wwwusatodaycom/story/news/nation/2012/10/01/doctorvisits decline/1605987/ [ 19 ] Warren , SD , Brandeis , LD 1890 . The Rights to Privacy , Harvard law Review , Vol . 4 No . 5 , ( Dec . 1890 ) , 193 220 . [ 20 ] Schwab , K . , Marcus , A . , Oyola , JO , Hoffman , W . 2011 .
Personal Data : The Emergence of New Asset Class , An Initiative of the World Economic Forum , ( In Collaboration with Bain & Company , Inc , Jan . 2011 ) .
[ 21 ] William Burnett . 2009 . Evidence Based Medicine : Is
American Medical Care Based on Science or Politics ? , The Student Doctor Network , ( Sep . 2009 ) . http://studentdoctor.net/2009/09/evidence based medicine isamerican medical care based on science or politics/
1333
