Nerding Out on Twitter : Fun , Patriotism and #Curiosity
Victoria Uren Aston University Aston Triangle
Birmingham , B4 7ET , UK vuren@astonacuk
Aba Sah Dadzie The OAK Group , DCS , The University of Sheffield . adadzie@dcsshefacuk
Sheffield , S1 4DP
ABSTRACT This paper presents an analysis of tweets collected over six days before , during and after the landing of the Mars Science Laboratory , known as Curiosity , in the Gale Crater on the 6th of August 2012 . A sociological application of web science is demonstrated by use of parallel coordinate visualization as part of a mixed methods study . The results show strong , predominantly positive , international interest in the event . Scientific details dominated the stream , but , following the successful landing , other themes emerged such as fun , and national pride . Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Social and Behavioural Sciences ] , K.4 [ Computers and Society ] . General Terms Experimentation . Keywords Public Engagement with Science , Web Science , Parallel Coordinates Visualization , High dimensional Visualization . 1 . INTRODUCTION Social media , including microposts , provide spaces for public engagement with science , which are open to researchers , professional communicators and the public . We are investigating methods and metrics for characterizing this growing public dialogue in order to understand what people think about science . In previous work , we have studied the occurrence of scientific terms from the UNESCO thesaurus [ 1 ] and public interest in meteor showers [ 2 ] . In this paper , we present a case of large scale social media engagement , specifically , the Twitter stream surrounding the landing of the Curiosity Mars rover in August 2012 . At this time the hashtags #curiosity and #MSL were trending on Twitter ; this is unusual for scientific discussion which is often relatively low key [ 2 ] . The availability of samples on the scale of thousands offers us opportunities for analysis that is not possible with only hundreds . Studying Curiosity allows us to look at a research area which has been in the focus of public attention for decades . Since the launch of Sputnik in 1957 , space research has fired the public ’s imagination , been a source of national pride , and spun off a range of now familiar technologies from Velcro to Teflon . Public engagement during the space race era of the 1960s and 1970s was not necessarily founded on understanding of the technology or appreciation of the scientific agenda , but often on respect for science and perceptions of the place of space technology in the wider context of the Cold War [ 3 ] .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
605
From a social science perspective the issue of message framing is important , ie , the interpretation of storylines with the aim of facilitating communication by appeals to social concerns and interests . The case of climate science illustrates the power of positive use of framing . Nisbet reports how climate science had been debated on the grounds of scientific validity and , in the USA , people had become entrenched in partisan divisions [ 4 ] . He then shows how reframing the discussion in moral ( particularly biblical ) terms , helped bridge some of these divides and win new advocates for responsible behaviour to protect the environment . Web science has much to offer social science , particularly for the analysis of social media . Yet , at the time of writing , the Social Science Research Network1 eLibrary contains just 13 papers containing the phrase “ web science ” compared with 555 for “ social media ” . Meyer and Schroeder [ 5 ] speak of the “ silos ” within social science occupied by fields such as Webometrics , which use methods closest to what would be considered “ traditional ” methods by researchers with a computer science background . Web scientists can meet social scientists halfway by demonstrating how web science methods can contribute to social science studies . The work reported here is a mixed methods study , in which we deploy text analysis for initial exploration of the data , content analysis to gain rich qualitative interpretation and visual analysis using parallel coordinates to give a more nuanced view of trends in language usage . The triangulation of these methods strengthens the validity of the results . 2 . CURIOSITY Curiosity , also known as MSL ( Mars Science Laboratory ) , is a robot the size of a small car2 . It has been designed to conduct geological survey work on the surface of Mars under direction by scientists working at NASA ’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory ( JPL ) . It was launched on the 26th of November 2011 and landed on the surface of Mars on the 6th of August 2012 . Considerable publicity surrounded the landing , heightened by the history of failed landings on Mars . In the run up to the landing , the phrase “ seven minutes of terror ” emerged to describe the period of the Martian atmosphere , during which it had to slow down from 13,000 mph to zero . There was also speculation about the likely success of the Sky Crane , the extraordinary , jet powered apparatus that would gently lower Curiosity the last few meters of its descent . Following the successful landing there was celebration and excitement as the first images came back to earth . With hindsight the landing was a success , but it was not obvious beforehand that public reaction would be so overwhelmingly
1 http://papersssrncom 2 http://wwwnasagov/mission_pages/msl 2 http://wwwnasagov/mission_pages/msl the spacecraft ’s descent through positive . The Curiosity rover is nuclear powered , containing 4.8kg of plutonium . The launch was not marked by protests like those that accompanied the Cassini and New Horizon probes , due perhaps to a better understanding of the public health risks [ 6 ] , but the ethics of sending nuclear materials to other planets is still debatable3 . Comments about government spending priorities might also be expected as Curiosity cost about $2.5bn at a time when the NASA budget has faced spending cuts [ 7 ] . 3 . RESEARCH QUESTIONS In the study reported here , a mixed methods approach was used to address the following exploratory research questions :
1 . How did tweeting and retweeting activity vary over the course of the days and hours around the Curiosity landing ?
2 . What message frames were commonly used in tweets ? 3 . What was the prevailing sentiment ?
The remainder of the paper describes the three methods used with their individual results : text analysis , content analysis and multidimensional visualization using parallel coordinates . The conclusions are derived from a triangulated view of the three analytical approaches applied to the Curiosity Twitter stream . The dataset for the work was harvested , using the Twitter API , from the public data stream , from 03 09 Aug 2012 . The analysis reported in this paper focuses on the 241,748 tweets containing the filter term “ #curiosity ” , which was trending on 06 Aug 2012 . Tweets were processed and stored in a mySQL database to facilitate the selection of subsets of microposts for analysis . 4 . TEXT ANALYSIS Text analysis was exploratory , with deeper analysis planned for future work . IBM ’s SPSS Modeller was used . Samples comprised all the tweets collected on each full GMT calendar day , from 0409 Aug 2012 , which contained the term #curiosity . One concept map was produced per day , centered on “ curiosity ” . 4.1 Results Table 1 shows how the topics discussed evolved over the days sampled . Some concepts , like “ landing ” and “ lander ” are present over the whole period , but other concepts change as time passes . Before the landing the term “ animations ” is presented , referring to a video which showed how the Sky Crane landing gear was intended to work , as well as “ minutes ” , as in the “ seven minutes of terror ” . On 06 Aug 2012 we see the emergence of the slang concept “ nerding ” , sometimes as part of the phrase “ nerding out ” . This expressed the excitement people felt and the pleasure derived from the event , with an emphasis on this being unusual because it was due to scientific activity . After the landing concepts such as “ images ” , “ photos ” and “ camera ” emerged , as the first pictures taken by the rover started to come back to earth . The concept maps also highlight frame related concepts ( see Figure 1 ) . The science frame appears strong , with concepts such as “ rover ” , “ science ” , “ life ” and “ robot ” . Politics emerges on 08 Aug , two days after the landing , with “ america ” and “ usa ” , linked to expressions of patriotic feeling . Fun is also well represented , especially at the height of activity 06 07 Aug with jokes featuring the reaction of “ martians ” and the demise of a “ cat ” .
3 http://wwwspace4peaceorg/
Table 1 : SPPS Concept Maps – 04 09 Aug 2012
04 Aug 2012 Frames : Science
05 Aug 2012 Frames : Science
06 Aug 2012 Frames : Science Fun
07 Aug 2012 Frames : Science Fun
08 Aug 2012 Frames : Science Politics
09Aug 2012 Frames : Science
606
5 . CONTENT ANALYSIS Content analysis can be defined as a qualitative “ research technique for making replicable and valid references from texts ” [ 8 ] . It comprises a sequence of procedures : selection of the texts to be coded , defining the unit of analysis and the codes to be used to address research questions , building a detailed coding manual providing definitions of codes and examples of their use , coding itself , and assessment of agreement between coders . Samples of 200 random tweets were selected for the content analysis ( randomisation was achieved using the SQL “ order by rand( ) ” statement ) . Six samples were taken , one for each day 0409 Aug . We define the unit of analysis as a single tweet . Each tweet had to be assigned at least one code and could have a maximum of two ( one sentiment and one frame ) . The codes ( Figure 1 ) were selected to address research questions 2 and 3 . For the analysis of frames the schema proposed by Schäfer [ 9 ] was used , providing four codes : Scientific , Political , Economic , ELSI ( Ethical , Legal and Social ) . To these a fifth code was added to reflect the light hearted nature of many posts on Twitter , which was labeled “ Fun ” . For the analysis of sentiment three standard codes were used : Positive , Negative and Neutral . Neutral was required in order to be certain that at least one code could be applied to any tweet that concerned Curiosity . Finally , two categories were created to cover all tweets that could not be categorized using a frame or sentiment code . The code Off Topic was defined for tweets that used the term #curiosity but were not about the landing ( the hashtag is also used in its more general sense ) . Other Languages was added because , although most of the tweets containing #curiosity in languages other than English were clearly about Curiosity the lander , interpreting the subtleties of framing in 140 character tweets that had been passed through automatic translation was too error prone . A benefit of this code was that it indicated international interest .
Frame   Scienti;ic   Political   Economic   ELSI   Fun  
Uncoded   Other   languages   Off  topic  
Code   Sentiment   Positive   Negative   Neutral  
Figure 1 : Taxonomy of Codes The definitions in the coding manual were refined during an initial round of coding and finalized by agreement between the two coders . The tweets were then coded . Coder A coded the whole of each sample . Coder B coded a block of 50 tweets from each sample , a checking rate of 25 % ( over the total sample size of 1200 manually annotated tweets ) . Agreement between the two coders was calculated using Hooper ’s measure [ 10 ] :
!=  
!!+!−! where C is the number of codes on which both coders agree , A is the number of codes assigned by coder A and B is the number of codes assigned by coder B . Agreement , reported in Table 2 , was measured datewise ( Hdate ) and codewise ( Hcode ) . Note that
607
Cohen ’s Kappa [ 11 ] is inappropriate for this study as 1 ) the coding units , ie tweets , are not independent of each other because of retweeting , and 2 ) the codes are not mutually exclusive because both a frame and a sentiment code may be applied . 5.1 Results The content analysis indicates that discussion of the Curiosity landing typically had positive sentiment , and that the predominant frames were Scientific ( for example reporting landing times or the release of images ) , and Fun ( there were many Martian jokes and references to parties taking place ) . Tweets in the Fun frame were lowest the day before the landing when anxiety about the “ seven minutes of terror ” was observed . Political tweets ( most often expressing national pride , from both the USA and other nations with links to the Curiosity project ) started to emerge after the successful landing . Very few Economic tweets were identified as comments on the cost of Curiosity were often classified as Political because they addressed other issues , eg “ Worth pointing out : both the #Olympics & #Curiosity are still cheaper than a month fighting in Iraq & Afghanistan ” . Up to 50 % of the tweets in the samples were in languages other than English , indicating strong international interest in the event .
Table 2 : Number of codes applied by Coder A with Hooper agreement compared to Coder B
4th
5th
6th
7th
8th
Hcode
0.63 0.00 0.00 0.74 0.50 0.00 0.43 0.51 0.74 0.98
28 3 3 42 11 1 9 32 27 70 0.80
39 2 13 34 13 0 0 35 44 44 0.61
52 1 1 56 4 0 1 16 6 95 0.75
38 4 2 68 6 0 4 24 6 79 0.77
29 0 1 49 1 1 0 24 17 100 0.81
9th 29 6 1 60 5 0 3 36 12 80 0.73
Date Positive Negative Neutral Scientific Political Economic ELSI Fun Off Topic Other L . Hdate
Perfect agreement between the coders was not expected due to the inherent ambiguity of 140 character tweets and the subtlety of judgment required for some frames . Nonetheless , agreement was good for the datewise samples ( Hdate ) . For individual codes ( Hcode ) it was good for the Scientific and Positive codes , but only moderate for Fun , possibly because humour is very personal ( the coders had an eight year age difference and different cultural backgrounds ) . These initial results indicate that future content analysis with larger samples would be worthwhile . For this study , the validity of the results was assessed by triangulation with the other analytical approaches . 6 . VISUALIZATION To complement the text and content analysis , we carried out visual analysis of the data . Information visualization augments analytical capability [ [12],[13],[14],[15] ] , by harnessing advanced human perception , making it easier to “ see ” information hidden within data . First high level , exploratory overviews of data structure and content are examined [ [12],[16],[17] ] . Detailed analysis of regions of interest ( ROIs ) is then carried out using visualization methods selected based on data type and task , and the target audience . The merits of visualization based analysis are , to increase interpret with however , often limited by screen real estate and resolution , rendering even the most intuitive representations increasingly difficult in data size , density , dimensionality and ( other factors contributing to ) complexity [ 18 ] . Interactive visualization is especially useful then , as it aids the recognition of ( emerging ) patterns and trends [ [13],[15] ] , by allowing the analyst additional perspectives on the data , as well as functionality for suppressing or highlighting data of low or high relevance respectively [ 17 ] . Our analysis aims to detect dynamicity in term usage , meaning and frequency in tweets . We therefore consider each term as a facet or dimension in the data , in addition to the temporal dimension . With 241,748 tweets containing an undetermined amount of noise , the complete dataset is sufficiently complex to warrant support for visual , exploratory analytics , for the human analyst to draw confident conclusions about its content . Because we are investigating public engagement with science , we aim in the long term to contribute to support for more effective analysis of such data . We therefore focus on accessible visualization approaches able to support exploration across all facets in highdimensional ( high D ) data , with a temporal element across all others . Dimensionality reduction techniques [ 18 ] are typically employed during pre processing of high D data . However , the open , shared data collected , even in this atypically trending case , even with noise , cannot be considered as very large scale . Therefore the benefits in dimensionality reduction are outweighed by the potential sacrifice of the key features in the data we wish to make explicit [ 15 ] . Multi dimensional data visualization typically employs multiple , co ordinated views [ [16],[19],[17],[20] ] , allowing different perspectives on selected data types , eg , cartography for the geographical dimension , and temporal data [ [13],[19] ] , in addition to custom implementations such as tag or topic clouds [ [19],[21],[17],[20] ] . The simple , 2D scatterplot is one of the best known examples of a visual analysis technique for comparing any two dimensions in a dataset [ [19],[15],[18] ] . Scatterplots ( and other techniques ) may incorporate visual cues such as colour , node size and shape [ [19],[22],[15],[18],[20] ] , or be extended to 3D or matrices [ [15],[17] ] , in order to compare across additional dimensions . Chan et al . [ 15 ] describe an extension of scatter plots to illustrate sensitivity due to the influence of additional attributes in a dataset as a flow or stream . Small multiples , as described by Tufte [ 14 ] , are particularly useful for displaying both discrete and continuous changes in data that lends itself to a pictorial representation . Parallel co ordinates ( //coords ) [ 23 ] plot each dimension ( co ordinate ) in high D data on a separate vertical axis in 2D space , providing an overview that reveals clusters of related information across multiple dimensions , while isolating outliers [ 18 ] . // coords are often used as timelines [ [13],[20] ] , with the temporal dimension on the horizontal axis . Additional benefits include the ability to reorder and cluster axes , flip poles , and extract each co ordinate to a scatter plot that focuses on each in isolation , or a collection of dimensions , as in Tufte ’s [ 14 ] small multiples approach . ParallelTopics [ 19 ] demonstrates the use of // coords , linked to topic clouds , a scatter plot and a theme river , to support topical analysis of large scale text corpora . Riehmann et al . [ 22 ] describe customisation of //coords to support use by the lay public . The authors report successful evaluation , demonstrating effective , intuitive support for exploring and filtering on product attributes in online stores . Krstajic et al . [ 24 ] describe the use of CloudLines , to explore entities and events in temporal data . Kim et al . [ 21 ] illustrate an timelines for extension of tag clouds to augment content analysis . They generate overview document summaries , as a node link network of key terms , bridged by the relationships between entities . Collins et al . [ 20 ] demonstrate a combination of tag clouds with //coords for large scale , exploratory , faceted text analysis . Faceted views as illustrated also in [ 17 ] , are a not unusual option on websites for navigating through and filtering on categories ( facets ) in document or item collections . A challenge highlighted in each of these papers is the need to enable more intuitive identification and interpretation of key terms or themes – facets or dimensions – in textual data , as amount and dimensionality increase . // coords are well suited to the exploratory analysis we report , as they allow us to obtain a quick overview of trends across all terms ( facets ) in the data , as well as the evolution of each facet and the entire dataset with time . We aim , in follow up work , to build on the small multiples technique [ 23 ] , to foster more detailed anlaysis of evolution across facets extracted from the // coords plot to representations that map to different user types and analytical tasks . Table 1 , for instance , uses a series of time based concept maps to illustrate trends in terminology during the evolving event of the Curiosity landing . Tag clouds , already in common use for visualizing term frequency and ( perceived ) importance on the ( readable and semantic ) Web and in social media data , may provide an alternative perspective , to support further text and content analysis for the ordinary end user . 6.1 Data Overview : Filters & Aging Factor We use a trial version of Macrofocus ’s || coords4 to analyse the multiple dimensions hidden within the tweets , each of which is a specification of a code in Figure 1 . Initial detailed analysis , to identify trends and ROIs in the data , was restricted to the samples of 200 tweets for each day ( from 04 09 Aug ) used in the content analysis . The smaller number also allowed manual inspection of the data content necessary for ( content ) coding . Datasets for the visualization were filtered first using four key Scientific terms : curiosity , MSL , #curiosity , @marscuriosity ( the rover ’s Twitter username ) and one multi term search ( (7 OR seven ) AND terror ) . The overview , in Figure 3 , plots the dataset , split into six hour periods from 00:00 GMT on August 4th to 23:59 GMT on August 9th , showing , for all tweets collected over the full period , the trends for each term . For this and each of the following // coords plots , each polyline , cutting across axes for each filter term , represents a temporal unit of measure , one of :
• • date range : 00:00 23:59 , eg , date_range_0 = 04 Aug quarter of a day : successive counts from q0 00:0005:59 ( dateA00 , eg , 6A00 – 1st quarter of 06 Aug )
Tweet counts peak on 06 Aug , with the highest for all filter terms falling on 6A06 – 0600 11:59 – the period during which Curiosity successfully touched down on Mars . To measure retweeting activity we used the Ageing Factor metric , AF , defined in [ 2 ] :
!"=  
!
!!+! where i is the cut off time in hours since the originating tweet , k is the number of retweets originating at least i hours ago and l is the number of retweets originating less than i hours ago .
4 http://ll coords.com ( now available as ProfilePlot )
608
Figure 2 : 1hAF values for the tweets in Figure 3 . 6A06 ( highlighted ) shows relatively low AF values . The preceding quarter , 6A00 records the lowest AF values .
This metric allows a synchronous view of retweeting behaviour in which the originating tweet does not need to be present in the sample . Values of AF range from 0 to 1 . Low AF is assumed to indicate rapid retweeting , such as might occur around a currently unfolding event of interest . We found previously [ 2 ] that 1hAF ( a 1 hour cutoff ) provides useful information for evolving events on Twitter , and subsequent breakdown into quarters in each day provides distinct trends . Figure 2 plots 1hAF for the data in Figure 3 ; 6A00 records the lowest AF for all but the term “ 7 Minutes of Terror ” or 7minutes . 6A06 ( highlighted ) is at its largest ( the filter #curiosity ) the 4th lowest AF value , and the lowest overall recorded for 7minutes . High AF is assumed to indicate enduring interest in a topic . 1hAF for the second half of 06 Aug is much higher , nearer the top of the range . “ 7 minutes of terror ” is overall , the least frequently tweeted term , and the only term to record maximum 1hAF ( 1 ) , during 9A00 . We also note high 1hAF for AtMarsCuriosity , forming a distinct cluster ( area encircled ) , starting before the landing and continuing after it . This indicates enduring interest from people sufficiently engaged to follow the rover ’s official persona . 6.2 Detailed Visual Analysis in ROIs Visualization is useful for obtaining an overview of data structure , followed by more detailed analysis of ROIs [ [12],[13],[21] ] . To determine if the trends revealed in the smaller sample were representative of the larger dataset we increased the sample tenfold , to 2000 tweets each . The plots ( of 2000 ) showed persistence in overall data structure as well as in the trends and ROIs revealed in the smaller samples . While the content analysis reported in Section 5 is restricted to the first set of 200 , the remainder of the discussion in this section is based on the larger random sample . We focus on activity on 06 Aug , which contains the two quarters of particular interest : the peak in Figure 3 , touch down at 6A06 , and the preceding quarter , 6A00 , the lowest AF polyline in Figure
// coords is often restricted tool . Examples
2 and second highest ( tweet count ) in Figure 3 . Visual analysis based on the larger random sample ( 2000 tweets each ) strengthens the case for the particular visualization approach for intuitive analysis as data size , density and dimensionality increase . Analysis using to visualization experts , as the approach is sometimes seen to have a steep learning curve . However , more recent research [ [13],[22 ] ] has shown the approach to be particularly useful for high D data , even for non experts . Used with alternative , co ordinated visualization options , such as scatter plots and other layouts specific to selected dimensions ( eg , maps for cartographic data ) , and with the simple filtering obtained through range sliders as illustrated here and in early seminal work in [ 25 ] , // coords may serve as a powerful analytical in Tufte ’s “ narratives of space and time ” [ 14 ] illustrate a parallel with commonly used bus and train timetables and other pictorial representations of temporal data in nature ; this may provide an avenue for additional co ordinated visualizations and that may help to minimize any initial challenges in use . We illustrate here the potential of // coords to support domain experts and the ordinary end user interacting with moderate to large amounts of high dimensional data , the norm in today ’s information rich society . Two factors may contribute to the success of // coords in this case , as reported in our previous work [ 1 ] , the use of scientific terms on Twitter is relatively low , with frequency further reduced when filtered to remove noise ( use in nonscientific contexts ) . Our dataset in this case , even for the atypically trending scientific terms surrounding Curiosity , while still large enough for the human user to require support for effective analysis ( ranging from 100s , to100s of 1000s , to 1.25M ) , is much smaller than typical counts ( 100s of 1000s to several millions ) extracted from the Twitter firehose stream for trending data . // coords are also particularly useful for highlighting clusters
Figure 3 : Tweet counts for the filter terms for the complete dataset , for each 6 hour period from 04 09 Aug 2012 . The peak , 06:00 11:59 on 06 Aug – the period during which Curiosity landed on Mars , is highlighted in successive plots .
609 along and between dimensions and for isolating outliers . For the atypically trending scientific terms – #Curiosity and #MSL – peaks are found for all terms in 6A06 , and while falling during the other three periods on 06 Aug ( see Figure 3 ) , clearly removed from the much lower clusters for the other 5 days surrounding Curiosity ’s landing . The filter term #curiosity is disregarded for the detailed analysis as it occurs in every tweet in the samples . The resulting co ordinates , normalized across the remaining four terms , are plotted for each day in Figure 4 . the reference to known brands , or in jokes . We found a large proportion of tweets that would be coded as Fun in 6A06 , albeit with clear reference to Curiosity , largely puns on the name and about martians ; people tweeting about what they or others were landing , eg , “ just watched doing while watching #missioncontrol #passthepeanuts . Feel pretty lucky to get to witness this . #curiosity #nasa #mars ” ; congratulatory messages to the Curiosity team and tweets about parties in the lead up to the landing or to celebrate its success . Figure 6 plots additional terms extracted during the text analysis ( see Section 4 ) ; some of the more common terms found for the frame Fun were “ curiosity killed the cat | cat(s)/feline | martian(s ) | Mars Bar | Peanuts ” . Other terms of interest were “ Congratulations | Celebration | party ” , and in a more Scientific frame , “ Nerd | Science | Landing | Images/Photos | JPL | NASA | Rover ” .
Figure 4 : Frequency of terms per day , for a random sample of 2000 tweets each – data_range_0 maps to 00:00 23:59 , 04 Aug 2012 . The filter term #curiosity is hidden in this plot . The shape of each polygon is fairly consistent across all 6 days . The relative totals for 06 Aug , however , drop , compared to the other days , with the skew largely attributable to the last two quarters in the day . Evidence for the variance is seen in both tweet counts and 1hAF values . Manual inspection of tweet content indicates this could be due to a lull after the main event was concluded , with further interest sustained by what may be more avid enthusiasts within the general public , in addition to the scientific community . We aim to carry out a more detailed study as we explore further visual analytics options for detailed analysis . The term #MSL shows a clear peak throughout , consistent with it trending over this period . The compound term 7minutes records the lowest count over the same period , peaking the day before the landing , which also records maximum values across all terms . The peaks match anticipation of the landing . The counts for 7minutes continue to drop quickly over the subsequent days ( but remains above 0 ) , after this period elapses and Curiosity lands safely . Considering the low 1hAF values for the first half of 06 Aug in Figure 2 and the peak in tweet count for the whole day for the complete dataset ( Figure 3 ) , we take a more detailed look , in Figure 5 , at each of the four quarters in this day . The plot reflects more closely the results seen in the overview . 6A00 shows a clear peak for all terms , followed by 6A06 . The drop in #MSL and 7minutes from the peaks at 6A00 is pronounced ( halved ) . || coords In addition implementation supports content inspection for each data point . Combined with interactive sliders ( see [ 25] ) , it enables visual , dynamic filtering , which we used in the more detailed analysis of the tweet content for 6A00 and 6A06 . The codes defined in Section 5 guided this analysis . An interesting point to note is that non English posts ( code Other languages ) , including those using a non Latin alphabet , typically made use of English hashtags . So while these tweets are not considered during the content analysis ( as explained in Section 5 ) , we include all posts in the overview plots for the exploratory analysis we report here , as relevance using manual inspection is easily inferred . As in previous work [ [1],[2] ] , a significant proportion of posts containing scientific terms use a colloquial interpretation , with the data , Macrofocus ’s to plotting interest in science , heightened by
Figure 5 : Frequency of terms per quarter , for the random sample of 2000 tweets each for 06 Aug 2012 . The period from 06:00 11:59 is highlighted . ( The filter #curiosity is hidden . ) 6A00 on the other hand contained a much larger proportion of tweets coded as Scientific . These are more likely to be from users with a more research oriented basis for their interest , including tweets pointing to sources of more information about Curiosity and the landing process . We posit that in 6A06 the relief at the successful landing attracted more tweets from the general public with an the publicity surrounding the landing , in addition to “ high fives ” from and within the scientific community . For instance , while Landing , ( #)NASA and #MSL show clear peaks for 6A00 , there is only one tweet containing the term congrat(ulation)s . The first three terms drop significantly during 6A06 ; however congrats peaks at 79 , mixed with other celebratory messages and comments about partying at NASA , and tweeters’ own Curiosity party plans . Jokes of the type “ How ironic would it be if #CURIOSITY landed on a Martian cat ? ” and/or curiosity killing the cat rise in 6A06 to over 140 , three times that for 6A00 . Tweets of the kind “ Also it is not made of Mars Bars . ” and about eating Mars Bars and peanuts during the “ seven minutes of terror ” and to celebrate the successful landing , while being in the lowest trough overall , doubled from q0 ( 6A00 ) to q1 ( 6A06 ) . “ Let s all dance for 7 minutes . #Curiosity ” may be considered to fall in the Fun frame , but due to the more pertinent terms 7minutes and #curiosity , could be weighted toward Scientific . Considering sentiment , we find a large number of positive tweets in the lead up to the landing , expressing anticipation , excitement and pride , and in 6A06 , increasingly showing also relief and celebration post landing . A smaller number of tweets fall in the frames Political , Economic and ELSI ( not shown in Figure 6 ) . ELSI particularly tended to range from neutral to negative . Overall , the trends for all four quarters of 06 Aug , and also for the full period , from 04 09 Aug . ( Figure 7 ) , are fairly consistent . One significant difference from our previous work is , a much lower
610
Figure 6 : Search on additional terms extracted during the text analysis for the four quarters in 06 Aug . ( 6A06 highlighted ) . 5 peaks are found , in descending order , for NASA , Landing , #MSL , and much lower , cat/feline and congratulatory messages . A tiny peak is seen for nerd in 6A06 .
Figure 7 : Trends for the additional terms ( as in Figure 6 ) , for the full period ( 04 09 Aug 2012 ) . 06 Aug . is highlighted . The patterns for term frequency largely follow those in Figure 6 , but with an additional peak for Images/Photos after the landing ( 07 09 Aug ) . proportion of noise . It must be noted however that the hashtag #MSL , which was found to be trending at the time ( along with the random sample filter term #curiosity ) , was present in a large number of tweets judged to be Fun , rather than Scientific or one of the other three frames . However , these were still found , for the most part , to be in reference to Curiosity/MSL . 7 . CONCLUSIONS The analysis reported here is initial and exploratory . The visualization component of the study served as independent validation of text analysis and content analysis . The latter was also found to serve as a springboard – with the richer qualitative understanding it yielded suggesting routes to explore the data further with the visualization . Thus the methods were found to be complementary and indicate that this kind of mixed methods study could be used successfully to characterize public engagement with science expressed in microposts . In order to further assess the efficacy of the approach and the kinds of insights it can yield for studies of public engagement with science , the approach must be applied to different kinds of events and to topics that are not event driven . The advantage in the visual overviews was easily recognizable variation in trends as the event unfolded , with very clear peaks and troughs at distinct periods . These were found , on more detailed investigation , to map to key points – just before and after the Curiosity landing . Looking at isolated points in the overviews , we found more evidence to support our initial theories on how aging factor maps to intense retweeting during evolving events , as opposed to longer term interest in topics of interest . Triangulation of the mixed methods results for the research questions stated in Section 3 is as follows : 1 ) How did tweeting and retweeting activity vary over the course of the days and hours around the Curiosity landing ? The // coords visualizations show that both the number of tweets and the speed of retweeting ( expressed as 1hAF ) were most intense in the two quarter days either side of the landing event ( 6A00 and 6A06 ) . Further , while the scientific frame was stronger prior to the landing , the fun was at its strongest immediately after the landing . 2 ) What message frames were commonly used in tweets ? Evidence from all three of the analytical methods used indicates that the Scientific and Fun frames were the strongest for this event . The result for Fun is validated by evidence for jokes about “ martians ” and “ cats ” from both the text analysis and the visualization . The result for the Scientific frame is also validated with evidence for interest in the “ landing ” , “ MSL ” and “ images ” , the latter particularly after the landing event . The concept map for 08 Aug includes associations with “ united states ” and “ america ” both associated with the Political frame . 3 ) What was the prevailing sentiment ? The content analysis indicated sentiment was largely positive . Evidence from the visualization , which identified a peak for “ congratulations ” on 06 Aug supports this conclusion . An additional outcome , which emerged from recording the code Other Languages , was that international interest was high . From a methodological perspective , the study used parallel coordinates visualization , a method which has previously been seen as more suitable for expert users . As found in more recent work , however , the technique may be used effectively for exploratory analysis by the non expert , especially when combined with simple filtering techniques , such as query sliders , and custom , coordinated views that allow a focus on selected dimensions in ROIs . It was found that it gave intuitive , interpretable results for this dataset , both for obtaining overviews of the data and for more detailed trend analysis for selected ROIs in data subsets . We consider it to have promise for web science studies .
611
[ 14 ] E . Tufte , Envisioning information . Cheshire , CT , USA :
Graphics Press , 1990 .
[ 15 ] Y H Chan , C . Correa , and K L Ma , “ Flow based scatterplots for sensitivity analysis , ” in Proc . , IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology , 2010 , pp . 43–50 .
[ 16 ] D . Keim , G . Andrienko , J D Fekete , C . Görg , J .
Kohlhammer , and G . Melançon , “ Visual Analytics : Definition , Process , and Challenges , ” in Information Visualization : Human Centered Issues and Perspectives , A . Kerren , J . T . Stasko , J D Fekete , and C . North , Eds . Berlin/Heidelberg : Springer Verlag , 2008 , pp . 154–175 .
[ 17 ] V . Thai , P Y Rouille , and S . Handschuh , “ Visual
Abstraction and Ordering in Faceted Browsing of Text Collections , ” ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology , vol . 3 , no . 2 , pp . 21:1–21:24 , Feb . 2012 .
[ 18 ] N . Elmqvist and J D Fekete , “ Hierarchical Aggregation for
Information Visualization : Overview , Techniques , and Design Guidelines , ” IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , vol . 16 , no . 3 , pp . 439–454 , 2010 .
[ 19 ] W . Dou , X . Wang , R . Chang , and W . Ribarsky ,
“ ParallelTopics   : A Probabilistic Approach to Exploring Document Collections , ” System , vol . 07 , pp . 231–240 , 2011 . [ 20 ] C . Collins , F . B . Viegas , and M . Wattenberg , “ Parallel Tag
Clouds to explore and analyze faceted text corpora , ” in Proc . , IEEE Symposium On Visual Analytics Science And Technology , 2009 , pp . 91–98 .
[ 21 ] K . Kim , S . Ko , N . Elmqvist , and D . S . Ebert , “ WordBridge :
Using Composite Tag Clouds in Node Link Diagrams for Visualizing Content and Relations in Text Corpora , ” in Proc . , 44rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , 2011 , pp . 1–8 .
[ 22 ] P . Riehmann , J . Opolka , and B . Froehlich , “ The product explorer : decision making with ease . , ” in International Working Conference on Advanced Visual interfaces ( AVI’12 ) , 2012 , pp . 423–432 .
[ 23 ] A . Inselberg , Parallel Coordinates : Visual Multidimensional Geometry and Its Applications . Springer Verlag New York , Inc . , 2009 .
[ 24 ] M . Krstajic , E . Bertini , and D . Keim , “ CloudLines : Compact
Display of Event Episodes in Multiple Time Series , ” IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , vol . 17 , no . 12 , pp . 2432–2439 , 2011 .
[ 25 ] C . Ahlberg and B . Shneiderman , “ The alphaslider : a compact and rapid selector , ” Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems CHI 94 , pp . 365–371 , 1994 .
8 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Aba Sah Dadzie is currently funded by the UK MRC project Time to Change ( 129941 ) . 9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] V . Uren and A S Dadzie , “ Relative Trends in Scientific Terms on Twitter , ” in altmetrics11 : Tracking scholarly interest on the Web , Workshop at ACM WebSci’11 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] V . Uren and A S Dadzie , “ Ageing Factor : a Potential Altmetric for Observing Events and Attention Spans in Microblogs , ” in 1st International Workshop on Knowledge Extraction and Consolidation from Social Media ( KECSM ) , 2012 .
[ 3 ] M . C . Nisbet and D . A . Scheufele , “ What ’s next for science communication ? Promising directions and lingering distractions . , ” American Journal of Botany , vol . 96 , no . 10 , pp . 1767–1778 , 2009 .
[ 4 ] M . C . Nisbet , “ Commmunicating climate change : why frames matter for public engagement , ” Environment , vol . 51 , no . 2 , pp . 12–23 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] E . T . Meyer and R . Schroeder , “ Untangling the Web of eResearch : Towards a Sociology of Online Knowledge , ” Journal of Informetrics , vol . 3 , no . 3 , pp . 246–260 , 2009 .
[ 6 ] W . E . Kastenberg and R . Wilson , “ Risk of nuclear powered space probes , ” Reliability Engineering & System Safety , vol . 86 , no . 1 , pp . 53–59 , 2004 .
[ 7 ] T . Dinerman , “ NASAs continuing problems , ” The Space
Review , 18 Apr 2011 .
[ 8 ] K . Krippendorp , Content Analysis : An Introduction to its
Methodology . Sage , 2004 .
[ 9 ] M . S . Schäfer , “ From Public Understanding to Public Engagement   : An Empirical Assessment of Changes in Science Coverage , ” Science Communication , vol . 30 , p . 475 , 2008 .
[ 10 ] R . S . Hooper , “ Indexer consistency tests Origin , measurements , results and utilization , ” Bethesda , 1965 .
[ 11 ] J . Cohen , “ A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales , ” Educational and Psychological Measurement , vol . 20 , pp . 37–46 , 1960 .
[ 12 ] S . K . Card , J . D . Mackinlay , and B . Shneiderman , Readings in information visualization using vision to think . Academic Press , 1999 .
[ 13 ] D . A . Keim , J . Kohlhammer , G . Ellis , and F . Mansmann , “ Mastering The Information Age – Solving Problems with Visual Analytics , ” 2010 .
612
