Link Prediction in Social Networks Based on Hypergraph
Dong Li , Zhiming Xu , Sheng Li , Xin Sun
Harbin Institute of Technology Harbin , 150001 , PR China
{hitlidong , xuzm , lisheng , sunxin}@hiteducn
ABSTRACT In recent years , online social networks have undergone a significant growth and attracted much attention . In these online social networks , link prediction is a critical task that not only offers insights into the factors behind creation of individual social relationship but also plays an essential role in the whole network growth . In this paper , we propose a novel link prediction method based on hypergraph . In contrast with conventional methods that using ordinary graph , we model the social network as a hypergraph , which can fully capture all types of objects and either the pair wise or high order relations among these objects in the network . Then the link prediction task is formulated as a ranking problem on this hypergraph . Experimental results on Sina Weibo dataset have demonstrated the effectiveness of our methods . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data Mining General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords link prediction ; hypergraph ; ranking
1 . INTRODUCTION With the rapid development of networking sites ( eg , Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn ) , online social networks have drawn substantial attention . Link prediction is the problem of predicting the existence of a link between two entities , based on attributes of the objects and other observed links . It is a critical task for social networks analysis , and has many applications , such as , user recommendation , network growth modeling and so on . Nowell and Kleinberg [ 2 ] propose an array of methods for link prediction using network topology . They model a social network as a homogeneous graph , in which , each node represents a user and each link denotes social relationship between users . However , a social network usually does not only contain user objects and relationship between them , Fig 1 presents an example of various types of objects and relations among these objects in micro blogs . As an improvement , Yin et al . [ 4 ] model social networks as heterogeneous graphs and apply a random walk algorithm on them to calculate link proximity . But , their heterogeneous graphs only consider user objects and user attributes objects , they still can not capture completely all types of objects and relations in social networks . Moreover , the heterogeneous graphs they used are ordinary graphs , which can not make full use of the high order relations in social networks such as R5 in Fig1 represents a ternary relation ( a user releases a tweet containing a hashtag ) . For an ordinary graph , naively squeezing the complex relationships into pair wise ones will inevitably lead to loss of information [ 5 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janiero , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Figure 1 . An example of various types of objects and relations among these objects in micro blogs . In this paper , we propose a novel link prediction method based on hypergraph . Hypergraph model has been widely used such as solving the problems of community detection [ 3 ] , classification [ 5 ] , music recommendation [ 1 ] and so on . But to the best of our knowledge , none has considered using hypergraph model to solve link prediction problem . In this paper , we use a hypergraph to model all types of objects and relations of the social network . This method , particularly , can fully capture the high order relations among . Then we use a hypergragh ranking method for link proximities estimation and so as to make accurate link prediction . Experiments on Sina Weibo dataset show that our methods outperform the state of the art .
(
,
,
)
2 . METHODS A hypergraph is a generalization of an ordinary graph where edges , called hyperedges , can connect any number of nodes . G V E w denote a hypergraph , where V denotes a Formally , let finite set of nodes v , E denotes the set of hyperedges e , w is a weight function defined as :w E → ( cid:92 ) . Each hyperedge e E∈ is a subset of V and is assigned a positive weight w(e ) . The degree of a . For a node v V∈ , the degree hyperedge e is defined as ( ) e e | | δ = = ∑ . A hypergraph G can be of v is defined as w e ( ) h v e = if represented by a | ( , ) 1 | e∈ and 0 otherwise , called the incidence matrix of G . Then we v have : vD and eD denote the diagonal matrices containing the degrees of all nodes and hyperedges respectively , and W the diagonal matrix E | containing the weights of all hyperedges . e E v e ∈ ∈ matrix H with entries w e h v e ( ) ( , ) d v ( ) E× V |
|
. Let
= ∑
= ∑ and
δ e ( )
|
E×
|
| h v e ( , )
| d v ( ) e E ∈ v V ∈
We use a hypergraph to model different types of objects and either the pair wise or high order relations among them in social networks . We suppose this hypergraph contains m kinds of nodes and n kinds of hyperedges . Each kind of node corresponds to a type of object , and each kind of hyperedge corresponds to a type of relation . A hyperedge in this hypergraph can be a set of nodes of either the same type or different types . We consider link prediction task as a ranking problem on the above hypergraph . Given a target user u , we estimate link
41 2
,
,
,
[ y
=
]T y v | | y y 1 denote the input vector where proximities between u and other nodes in the hypergraph for link prediction . Let iy iy and the target user u . We is the initial link proximity between to represent the result vector of link use proximities . Next , we will discuss how to perform ranking based on hypergraph to estimate the link proximities f for link prediction . For a hypergraph ranking problem , the cost function could be defined as :
)fΩ f 1
]T
=
[
( f f f v | |
,
,
,
2
Ω
( f
)
=
1 2
|
V |
1 ∑∑ e ( ) δ= ∈ 1 e E i j ,
∑ v v { , } ⊆ j i e w e ( )
2 f i d v ( i
)
− f j d v (
) j
( 1 )
(
(
)fΩ
)fΩ sums the changes of the scoring vector f over The function the hyperedges on the hypergraph . On the one hand , a good result vector f should make as small as possible , ie if two users have many same neighbors , the link proximity between them should be high . On the other hand , the initial score assignment should be changed as little as possible . Then the optimal ranking result is achieved by solving the following optimization problem :
( 2 ) arg min
|| μ
|| } 2
−
+ y
) f f
V |
|
{ ( ∈ Ω f R
0μ> is the parameter specifying the tradeoff between the where two competitive terms . The calculation process is omitted due to space limitation , and finally we can obtain a closed form solution ,
( 3 )
) 1 α α −
− Μ
= −
( 1
)( y
I f
*
Where
α
=
1/ ( 1
+
) μ and
M D HWD H D − v
1/2 − v
1 − e
=
T
1/ 2
.
3 . EXPERIMENTS To evaluate the proposed methods , we collected a dataset from Sina Weibo which is Twitter of China and now has more than 500 million users . This dataset contains various types of objects and relations shown in Fig 1 . Firstly , we selected 15 seed users that are related to the internet field . Then we collected users followed by seed users and the “ following ” relations among all these users . Secondly , we collected usertags marked to above users , groups ( called micro groups in Sina Weibo ) these users joined , and tweets republished or forwarded by these users . The content of tweet may contain hashtags or url , here we consider a url as a special hashtag . Finally , we collected 3910 users , 235790 tweets , 6080 usertags , 4462 hashtags and 593 groups . And the description and count of relations collected are summarized in Table 1 . Each relation corresponds to a hyperedge , we set the weights of all hyperedges to be 1 . Due to the revision of the Sina Weibo , the group information can not be collected any more now . Table 1 . Relations in dataset of Sina Weibo .
We split the collected Sina Weibo dataset into training dataset and testing dataset . The training dataset is used to construct the hypergraph while the testing dataset is for evaluation . For each user in testing dataset , we remove half links to friends , and the prediction task is then to use the pruned networks to find the missing links . We compare the proposed method with several state of the art methods : SimProf is to predict links using similarity of user profile , each user is profiled as a word vector based on tweets associated with this user . CommonNeighbors , Katz and Adamic/Adar are methods based on graph structure in [ 2 ] . LINKREC [ 4 ] uses a random walk algorithm on an augmented social graph with both structure and attribute information . We use Precision and Recall as the measure metrics to evaluate the performance of all the compared methods . Table 2 . Comparison of different methods on Sina Weibo dataset .
Method SimProf
Common neighbors
Katz
Adamic/Adar LINKREC Our Method
P@1 0.89 4.87 4.86 4.91 5.73 6.68
P@5 0.76 4.69 4.66 4.72 5.46 6.32
P@10 0.65 4.50 4.49 4.53 5.23 6.04
P@15 0.43 4.25 4.21 4.29 4.97 5.76
Recall 30.32 47.46 45.90 48.35 56.71 62.95
Table 2 shows the results of these methods on Sina Weibo dataset . Common Neighbors , katz and Adamic/Adar show similar performance while SimProf gets a comparatively worse result . This indicates that network structure mining is more important than user profile analyzing in the task of link prediction . LINKREC outperforms all above motioned methods . However , LINKREC only focus on the graph consists of users and users’ attributes ( usertags in micro blog ) , it neglects other objects ( tweets , groups and so on ) and relations between users and these objects . In contrast , our method , modeling a social network as a hypergraph , can completely capture all types of objects and relations ( either pair wise or high order relations ) in the social network , thus can get a better performance than LINKREC . Finally , we note that although this paper uses micro blog dataset in evaluation , the proposed method is not limited to the microblog , it is also applicable to any other social network .
4 . CONCLUSION In this paper , a novel link prediction method based on hypergraph has been presented . In contrast with traditional methods based on homogeneous or heterogeneous graph , we model a social network as a hyperpgraph , which can accurately capture various types of objects and either the pair wise and high order relations among these objects without loss of any information . Then we formulate the link proximity estimation task in link prediction as a ranking problem on this hypergraph . Experimental results on Sina Weibo dataset have proved the effectiveness of our methods . Acknowledgements . This work is supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China ( No . 61173074 ) and the ZTE cooperation project ( No . MH20120428 ) . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Bu , J . , Tan , S . , Chen , C . , et al . Music recommendation by unified hypergraph combining social media information and music content . In Proc . MM , pages 391 400 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] Liben Nowell , D . and Kleinberg , J . The link prediction problem for social networks . In Proc . CIKM , pages 556 559 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] Lin , Y . R . , Sun , J . , Castro , P . , Konuru , R . , Sundaram , H . , and Kelliher , A . Metafac : community discovery via relational hypergraph factorization . In Proc . KDD , pages 527 536 , 2009 .
[ 4 ] Yin , Z . , Gupta , M . , Weninger , T . , and Han , J . LINKREC : a unified framework for link recommendation with user attributes and graph structure . In Proc . WWW , pages 1211 1212 , 2010 .
[ 5 ] Zhou , D . , Huang , J . , and Scholkopf , B . Learning with hypergraphs :
Clustering , classification , and embedding . In Proc . NIPS , pages 16011608 , 2007 .
42
