Learning from Quizzes Using Intelligent Learning
Companions
Danica Damljanovic
Kuato Studios
London , United Kingdom danica@kuatostudios.com
David Miller Kuato Studios
London , United Kingdom david@kuatostudios.com
Daniel O’Sullivan
Kuato Studios
London , United Kingdom daniel@kuatostudios.com
ABSTRACT It is widely recognised that engaging games can have a profound impact on learning . Integrating a conversational Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) into the mix makes the experience of learning even more engaging and enriching . In this paper we describe a conversational agent which is built with the purpose of acting as a personal tutor . The tutor can prompt , question , stimulate and guide a learner and then adapt exercises and challenges to specific needs . We illustrate how automatic generation of quizzes can be used to build learning exercises and activities .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I.2 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing , Distributed Artificial Intelligence—Language parsing and understanding , Intelligent agents
Keywords e learning ; quizzes ; linked data ; ontologies
1 .
INTRODUCTION
It has long been recognised that many of the attributes of engaging game play , from the provision of multiple learning styles to intellectual challenge , can have a direct and immediate impact on learning . In today ’s world , with the profusion of simulation and scenario games , teachers are able to engage their students in entirely new models of learning . At the same time , advances in mobile technologies take learning , and particularly enquiry based learning , far beyond the confines of the classroom . The integration of a conversational Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) into this learning mix has the capacity to make learning within a gaming or ‘tutorial’ environment an even more engaging experience .
Computer games are extremely popular and have already spearheaded a revolution in the entertainment industry . A similar revolution is now taking place in the sphere of education where entertainment has been married to user interaction in order to achieve something more valuable Gaming with a Purpose . As described in [ 9 ] serious games are “ all about leveraging the power of computer games to captivate and engage end users for a specific purpose , such as to develop new knowledge and skills ” .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Many of these games are created by leveraging linked data – where the creation and curation of semantic content is an integral part of engaging users in the game , eg [ 7 , 8 ] . One approach is the evaluation of heuristics , used to determine a ranking of facts within a specific knowledge base like DBpedia [ 2 ] . Another is quiz based game applications described in WhoKnows [ 10 ] , RISQ! [ 11 ] and BetterRelations [ 5 ] , where the quiz is used as a game motivator . In this case , users – in the act of playing the game – simultaneously improve the quality of the respective Linked Data sources . For example , the Linked Data Movie Quiz ( LDMQ [ 1 ] ) is an application that uses the Linked Movie DataBase ( LMDB [ 4 ] ) to generate questions about movies , directors , and actors . The application illustrates the potential of consuming Linked Data in order to create quizzes on top of it . An extension of this approach is described in [ 6 ] , which foresees multiple domains having the same mechanisms applied to different datasets which , when combined , will generate even more advanced questions .
The approach presented in this paper is similar to the examples mentioned above to the extent that quizzes are generated automatically by leveraging linked data . However , our primary focus in generating such quizzes is for a deeper learning experience . The quizzes are embedded in an environment which also features an Intelligent Personal Tutor . This Tutor controls both the execution of the quiz and also the ordering of the questions . Learning is delivered through the conversational abilities of the agent . While “ hosting ” the quiz , the agent will prompt , encourage , stimulate and guide the user to successful learning . As the tutor becomes familiar with the player ’s abilities and aptitudes , it will adapt questions and challenges in the light of this ‘understanding’ . Remembering a player ’s behaviours and abilities , the agent can prompt exploration and discovery of new information . Perhaps most importantly , it will lead the player to exert control over their own learning , while simultaneously enjoying the experience . Building such an agent requires the curation of a large knowledge base of facts as well as the heuristics required in order to translate the pedagogical behaviours and habits of teachers into the agent ’s personality . Linked data can be a valuable resource for such facts , but also the driving mechanism for the dialogues initiated by the tutor .
2 .
INTELLIGENT TUTOR
The Tutor is an agent which can be embedded in any environment that lends itself to a simulated tutor . It is trained using a set of learning exercises which become the
435 basis of a conversation with a student . Below , we describe how the exercises are created , either from scratch or using external resources ( such as linked data ) . 2.1 Creating Learning Exercises
The creation of Learning Exercises involves the following steps :
1 . Concept selection . From a preloaded ontology ( manually created , or imported from an external resource ) , a teacher will select concepts around which exercises can be based .
2 . Question generation . Question templates are based on the ontology structure : they join knowledge structures that are metaphorically or referentially related and combine them with natural language . See Table 21
3 . Answer generation . The teacher might define the correct answer first . Based on this definition , a set of potential distractors are generated – using a combination of the Wordnet [ 3 ] structure and the domain ontology . The teacher can then choose one or more of the existing distractors , or generate a whole new set . It is important that the answers are finessed at this stage to reflect the voice of a “ good ” Tutor .
4 . Agent response generation where answers are correctly and incorrectly chosen . Perhaps more importantly for creating the “ voice ” of the Tutor , the teacher creates responses which ( a ) reward the correctly chosen answer with reinforcing knowledge or ( b ) guide the player who needs one or more prompts . As the purpose of this learning tool is to simulate a teacher , one of the key features of the quiz companion is that it gives useful , motivational responses when the user selects a wrong answer . Generating these answers is a manually created step , supported by a set of automatically generated templates . This step also enables the tool to rely on the memory component , and provide answers which include reference to the user ’s prior performance . Just as the machine depends on the combination of knowledge structures to learn , so helping the user make conceptual connections will help them learn .
5 . Exercise planning . The plan specifies the order in which questions are presented to the user . These are generated dynamically based on the level of concept in the ontology .
6 . Reward plan . Rewards are intrinsic to enhanced engagement and therefore the promotion of learning . Rewards , however , need not take the form of badges or other prizes . Rather , the encouragement of the ingame agent acts as its own reward ; it encourages the struggling user to learn and understand while praising and challenging the more competent .
2.2 Examples
221 Example Interaction 1 , Learning concept : En ergy
• KAI Tutor : What is the significance of energy for our bodies ?
1 . Energy allows growth and repair . ( Correct An swer )
2 . Energy enables movement . 3 . Energy allows us to keep warm .
Student says ‘It allows growth and repair’ . KAI Tutor : Excellent . Cells need energy to carry out growth and repair processes .
Student says ‘Enables movement?’ . KAI Tutor : Energy is necessary for movement . But it does something even more important for our bodies!
Student says ‘I’ve a feeling it allows us to keep warm?’ . KAI Tutor : That ’s true . But there is an even more significant role for energy in the body . 222 Example Interaction 2 , Learning concept : Cell
• KAI Tutor : What is a cell ? ( Question 1 )
1 . The smallest unit of life . ( Correct Answer ) 2 . One of the smallest units of life . 3 . A very small organism .
Student says ‘Is it the smallest unit of life?’ . KAI Tutor : Well done . All living things are made up of cells .
Student says ‘I think it might be one of the smallest units of life’
KAI Tutor : You can actually go one step further! Student says ‘A very small organism?’ . KAI Tutor : Good , a cell can be an organism . But think again about the function of cells in relation to larger living things .
Now , after going through a few other questions , KAI presents a question similar to Question 1 . This allows the tutor to assess whether a student properly understood the earlier question . 223 Example Interaction 3 , Learning concept : Cell • KAI Tutor : What unit is described as the building block of life ? ( Question 11 a re run of Question 1 )
1 . A cell . ( Correct Answer ) 2 . Genes . 3 . DNA .
Student says ‘A cell?’ ( where student answered Question
1 correctly first time ) .
KAI Tutor : Great , you got this right again . Seems like you really mastered cells!
Student says ‘A cell’ ( where student answered Question 1 correctly on second attempt ) .
KAI Tutor : Great , you got it! You’re really getting the concept of cells now!
To demonstrate how our method works , below we show sample dialogues related to two learning concepts . The third example focuses on demonstrating memory and adapting to the user .
Student says ‘A cell’ ( where student answered Question 1 correctly on third attempt ) .
KAI Tutor : Well done . You struggled with a cell ques tion before , but now you got it in one!
436 Table 1 : Question Generation templates with examples
Template
Generated questions
Which CLASS function(PROPERTY ) INSTANCE
Which Planet min(distanceFromEarth ) Earth
In which CLASS function(PROPERTY ) INSTANCE
Which planet is closest to Earth ?
In which Country find Port Of Alexandria
In which country would you find the Port of Alexandria ?
In which Country located the Hanging Gardens of Babylon
In which country were the Hanging Gardens of Babylon located ?
In which State located Grand Canyon
What CLASS INSTANCE
What Capital Italy
What PROPERTY INSTANCE
What capitalOf Italy
What PROPERTY modifier ( INSTANCE )
What isCarried in our ( Blood )
What PROPERTY CLASS PROPERTY INSTANCE
In which state is the Grand Canyon located ?
What is the capital of Italy ?
What is the capital of Italy ?
What is carried in our blood ?
What nameOf Animal livesIn Lodge
What is the name of the animal that lives in a lodge ?
What CLASS
What Cell
What Planet
What CLASS PROPERTY modifier ( CLASS )
What Food provides our ( Body )
What CLASS PROPERTY INSTANCE
What Factors affect Fitness
Where INSTANCE PROPERTY
Where Photosynthesis happens
Why CLASS PROPERTY CLASS
Why PlantCells have Chloroplasts
How INSTANCE PROPERTY INSTANCE
What is a cell ?
What is a planet ?
What does food provide for our bodies ?
What factors affect fitness ?
Where does photosynthesis happen ?
Why do plant cells have chloroplasts ?
Why Cells important
How does smoking affect fitness ?
3 . CONCLUSIONS
We described an approach where linked data is used to create learning exercises , led and choreographed by an intelligent tutor . In its knowledge base , the tutor has a set of pre generated quizzes – learning conversations – together with the plan which defines question order . Context related incentives are used to guide the user towards understanding the concept in question when their answer selection is incorrect . These agents can be embedded in any environment where learning is a desired outcome . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G . ´Alvaro and J . ´Alvaro . A Linked Data Movie Quiz : the answers are out there , and so are the questions . [ blog post ] , August 2010 .
[ 7 ] K . Siorpaes and M . Hepp . Games with a Purpose for the Semantic Web . IEEE Intelligent Systems , 23:50–60 , May 2008 .
[ 8 ] K . Siorpaes and E . Simperl . Human Intelligence in the
Process of Semantic Content Creation . World Wide Web , 13:33–59 , March 2010 .
[ 9 ] T . Susi , M . Johannesson , and P . Backlund . Serious
Games An Overview . Technical report , HS IKI TR 07 001 , 2007 .
[ 10 ] J . Waitelonis , N . Ludwig , M . Knuth , and H . Sack .
WhoKnows ? Evaluating Linked Data Heuristics with a Quiz that Cleans Up DBpedia . International Journal of Interactive Technology and Smart Education ( ITSE ) , Special Issue on Multimedia technologies for e learning , 8(4):236–248 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] S . Auer , C . Bizer , G . Kobilarov , J . Lehmann , and
[ 11 ] L . Wolf , M . Knuth , J . Osterhoff , and H . Sack . RISQ!
Renowned Individuals Semantic Quiz : a Jeopardy like quiz game for ranking facts . In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Semantic Systems , I Semantics ’11 , pages 71–78 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
Z . Ives . DBpedia : A Nucleus for a Web of Open Data . In 6th International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC ) , Busan , Korea , pages 11–15 . Springer , 2007 .
[ 3 ] C . Fellbaum . WordNet : An Electronical Lexical
Database . The MIT Press , Cambridge , MA , 1998 .
[ 4 ] O . Hassanzadeh and M . Consens . Linked Movie Data
Base . In Workshop on Linked Data on the Web ( LDOW ) , 2009 .
[ 5 ] J . Hees , T . Roth Berghofer , R . Biedert , B . Adrian , and A . Dengel . BetterRelations : Detailed Evaluation of a Game to Rate Linked Data Triples , October 2011 . [ 6 ] G . ´A . Rey , I . Celino , P . Alexopoulos , D . Damljanovic , M . Damova , N . Li , and V . Devedzic . Semi automatic generation of quizzes and learning artifacts from linked data . In Linked Learning 2012 : 2nd International Workshop on Learning and Education with the Web of Data , at the World Wide Web Conference 2012 ( WWW2012 ) , 2012 .
437
