Collaborative Filtering Meets Next Check in Location
Prediction
Defu Lian
Vincent W . Zheng
Xing Xie
University of Science and
Advanced Digital Sciences
Microsoft Research Asia ,
Technology of China
Center , Singapore
Beijing , China liandefu@mailustceducn vincentzheng@adsccomsg xingx@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT With the increasing popularity of Location based Social Networks , a vast amount of location check ins have been accumulated . Though location prediction in terms of check ins has been recently studied , the phenomena that users often check in novel locations has not been addressed . To this end , in this paper , we leveraged collaborative filtering techniques for check in location prediction and proposed a short and long term preference model . We extensively evaluated it on two large scale check in datasets from Gowalla and Dianping with 6M and 1M check ins , respectively , and showed that the proposed model can outperform the competing baselines .
Keywords Location Prediction ; Collaborative Filtering ; LBSNs
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—clustering , information filtering
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the increasing popularity of Location based Social Networks ( LBSNs ) , a vast amount of location check ins have been accumulated . In this paper , we are interested in predicting user ’s future check in locations based on these data . In particular , we attempt to determine which Point Of Interest ( POI ) , such as a clothing store or a western restaurant , a user will check in next . One of its typical scenarios is shown in Figure 1(a ) .
Though the next check in location prediction problem has been recently studied [ 1 , 3 , 4 ] , the phenomena that users often check in novel locations has not been addressed . According to our observations , shown in Figure 1(b ) , users checked in over 35 % novel POIs each day on average even after half a year , where novel POIs are those POIs that users have not checked in before . The check ins at novel POIs bring challenges to the prediction models which heavily depend on the feature of user ’s individual check in frequency at POIs [ 1 , 3 , 4 ] since this feature is zero at novel POIs .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
?
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4 i s n − k c e h c l e v o n f o o i t a r e h T
?
?
Gowalla Dianping
( a )
( b )
0
50
100
150
The number of days of check−ins observed
Figure 1 : ( a)A typical scenario for next check in location prediction . Given three successive checkins(tree icons ) of a user(head icon ) , we predict her next location.(b)The ratio of check ins at novel POIs given the number of days of check ins observed .
To deal with this problem , we leveraged collaborative filtering techniques to resort to the similar users’ patterns . In particular , we proposed a factorizing approach , which we named as a short and long term preference model ( SLoP ) , for dimension reduction and encoded users’ check in patterns in a low dimension latent space . In short term preference model , we extended sequential collaborative filtering ( SCF ) [ 5 ] to not only model the transition between the POIs but also consider various features including dynamic user ’s preferences , spatio temporal constraints . In addition , since users often checked in several POIs in a short time , similar to the successive check ins in Figure 1(a ) , we considered these successive check ins as groups instead of single check in as basic units of SCF . However , in the short term preference we simply modeled user ’s local preference that depended on contextual information such as time and previous check in locations , thus we leveraged the long term preference , which learned the personalized pairwise preference between POIs , for its supplement .
2 . COLLABORATIVE FILTERING FOR LO
CATION PREDICTION u = {G1
We assume check in history Gu of user u is represented as a sequence of check in groups in chronological order , ie G1:n u} , where n is the total number of checkin groups . Then the next check in location prediction problem is formalized as P r(i ∈ Gn+1 u ) , that is the probability of POI i belonging to the next check in group . u , · · · , Gn
|t , G1:n u
In short term preference , since we only consider current check in group and the time of next check in as contextual
231 information , ie , P r(i ∈ Gn+1 it is defined as u
|t , G1:n u ) = P r(i ∈ Gn+1 u
ˆP r(i ∈ Gn+1 u
|t , Gn u ) ∝ ( pu + wh(t ) ) · qi + f ( δd , δt )
|t , Gn u ) , rk · qi n| X
|Gu k∈Gu n where the probability is considered as some real value that can be factorized . pu , wh(t ) ∈ RF can denote user ’s and temporal preference on some intrinsic POI categories , respectively , and qi , rk ∈ RF can denote the possibility of POI i belonging to the corresponding POI categories . Thus ( pu + wh(t ) ) · qi represents dynamic user ’s preference , which means user ’s preference is varied with time , where h(t ) maps time t to an hour of the week . And 1 rk · qi mod|Gu els the transition from previous check in locations to next . f ( δd , δt ) = I{δt<∆T }e−βδd places an spatio temporal constraint on POIs’ transition , where δt and δd is the time interval and distance between the next check in group and the current one . This constraint indicates the larger influence of more adjacent check in groups . For learning these parameters , we follow [ 5 ] to perform stochastic gradient descent on an objective function based on the pairwise preference between user ’s check in POIs and non check in POIs plus a Frobenius norm of parameters to avoid over fitting . n| Pk∈Gu n
In long term preference , it learns the personalized pairwise preference between POIs without considering the influence of time and previous check ins , ie , P r(i ∈ Gu 1:n ) = P r(i ∈ Gu n+1 ) , it is represented as n+1|t , Gu
ˆP r(i ∈ Gu n+1 ) ∝ pu · qi where pu , qi ∈ RF share similar meaning to that in the shortterm preference . However we learn them by performing stochastic gradient descent on a different ranking objective function which considers not only the pairwise preference between user ’s check in POIs and non check in POIs but also the pairwise preference between the check in POIs with different frequency .
Since our goal is to perform POIs ranking , we don’t calculate their real probability but simply consider the short and long term preference as two scores for POIs . Then we blend them in a linear way as our SLoP model to get final scores for POIs .
3 . PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
We evaluated on two large scale check in datasets from Gowalla [ 2 ] and Dianping , with 6M check ins at 1,280,969 POIs from 107,092 users and 1M check ins at 150,094 POIs from 20,429 users , respectively . These check ins were preprocessed by first filtering the users with fewer than 10 days of check in history and then grouping successive check ins in a short time . Then they were split into a training portion ( 80 % ) and a testing portion ( 20% ) . Since we aimed to perform POIs ranking , in order to evaluate the performance of ranking algorithms , we exploited Accuracy at position k ( Acc@k ) . Acc@k was 1 k if the POI of a check in was returned at j ≤ k position and 0 otherwise . Finally , we also evaluated the ranking performance on the check ins at novel POIs , thus we reported Acc@k at both all check ins and the check ins at novel POIs . Due to the space limit , we only showed Acc@10 .
We compared SLoP with the following baselines : 1 ) UMostFreq , which predicted next location as user ’s most frequented location ; 2 ) UTMostFreq , similar to UMostFreq , but also
Table 1 : Comparison with baselines .
Approaches
UMostFreq UTMostFreq
MostFreq
SHM SLoP all all
Acc@10 Dianping Acc@10 Gowalla novel 0.0000 0.0004 0.0108 0.0000 0.0016 novel 0.0000 0.0007 0.0394 0.0000 0.0037
0.2093 0.1490 0.0262 0.2157 0.2199
0.3032 0.2159 0.0842 0.3065 0.3120 considered the time ( hour of week ) ; 3 ) MostFreq , which predicted next location as the most frequented location . 4 ) SHM [ 3 ] , which took into account both user ’s check in frequency and transition between POIs . The comparing results were shown in Table 1 . From this figure , we observed that : 1 ) UMostFreq performed better than UTMostFreq and MostFreq . Their reasons were that UTMostFreq encountered over fitting due to the insufficiency of individual check in history and that without distinguishing users lost significant individual patterns 2 ) SHM outperformed the above three baselines since it already exploited these information . 3 ) Although MostFreq showed a good performance on the check ins at novel POIs , it didn’t perform well on other check ins . However , according to the performance gap between MostFreq and SLoP on the check ins at novel POIs , we observed that there was still improving space to predict the check ins at novel POIs . 4 ) SLoP outperformed all baselines . This was because SLoP not only considered those information but also leveraged collaborative filtering for the check ins at novel POIs . However , the improvement over SHM was not large . The reason may lies in the following two reasons . First , sparse user POI frequency matrix resulted in a low performance on the check ins at novel POIs and thus only brought small improvement on all check ins . Second , the fuse of short and long term preference deceased the performance on the check ins at novel POIs since the long term preference played a dominating role in SLoP .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we studied the next check in prediction problem and proposed a CF based algorithm . By evaluating on two large scale check in datasets , our proposed model – SLoP outperformed four baselines .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Chang and E . Sun . Location3 : How users share and respond to location based data on social . In Proc . of ICWSM’11 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] E . Cho , S . Myers , and J . Leskovec . Friendship and mobility : user movement in location based social networks . In Proc . of KDD’11 , pages 1082–1090 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] H . Gao , J . Tang , and H . Liu . Exploring social historical ties on location based social networks . In Proc . of ICWSM’12 , 2012 .
[ 4 ] A . Noulas , S . Scellato , N . Lathia , and C . Mascolo .
Mining user mobility features for next place prediction in location based services . In Proc . of ICDM’12 , pages 1038–1043 . IEEE , 2012 .
[ 5 ] S . Rendle , C . Freudenthaler , and L . Schmidt Thieme .
Factorizing personalized markov chains for next basket recommendation . In Proc . of WWW’10 , pages 811–820 . ACM , 2010 .
232
