Stephanie
Brien
Nona Naderi
Arash
Shaban Nejad
Luke Mondor
Doerthe Kroemker
David L . Buckeridge
Vaccine Attitude Surveillance Using Semantic Analysis :
Constructing a Semantically Annotated Corpus
McGill Clinical & Health Informatics , Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics ,
Faculty of Medicine , McGill University , 1140 Pine Ave . W . , Montreal , Canada , H3A 1A3 , 514 934 1934 ext . 32999 stephaniebrien@mcgillca , nonanaderi@mcgillca , arashshaban nejad@mcgillca , lukemondor@mailmcgillca , doerthekroemker@mcgillca , davidbuckeridge@mcgillca
ABSTRACT This paper reports work in progress to semantically annotate blog posts about vaccines to use in the Vaccine Attitude Surveillance using Semantic Analysis ( VASSA ) framework . The VASSA framework combines semantic web and natural language processing ( NLP ) tools and techniques to provide a coherent semantic layer across online social media for assessment and analysis of vaccination attitudes and beliefs . We describe how the blog posts were sampled and selected , our schema to semantically annotate concepts defined in our ontology , details of the annotation process , and inter annotator agreement on a sample of blog posts .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] Natural Language Processing – Discourse , Text analysis . I24 Knowledge Representation Formalisms and Methods – Semantic Network
General Terms Management , Measurement , Documentation , Design , Languages , Standardization
Keywords Semantic analysis , Vaccine sentiment , Ontologies , Social network .
1 . INTRODUCTION Online sources such as blogs and news feeds provide timely information about public attitudes and beliefs towards vaccination and are a potentially valuable source for surveillance to guide public health programming . Current approaches to extract information from these online sources , however tend to identify only the general ( eg , positive or negative ) or dominant sentiment ( eg , fear or anxiety ) or independent mentions of terms , such as the name of a vaccine , disease , or adverse event . This information identifies what is being mentioned , but it does not help public health personnel to understand specific beliefs about vaccines . For example , knowing that a blog post refers to MMR is noteworthy , but knowing that the post asserts MMR vaccination causes autism
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . is considerably more useful . ( In this paper , we use the terms "attitude" and "sentiment" interchangeably ) . Formal representations of knowledge contained in text , using the Vaccine Sentiment Ontology ( VASON ) ( Figure 1 ) can help to identify not only instances of concepts , but also important relationships between the instances of concepts expressed in text . Once identified , the concepts and relationships between them can be used to infer vaccination attitudes and beliefs , which public health agencies can use to understand prevalent concerns regarding specific vaccines and to develop effective interventions . Furthermore , understanding the different relationships , properties and axioms that exist in this domain can provide a rich body of knowledge to facilitate semantic analysis . We aim to develop and evaluate an automated method for Vaccine Attitude Surveillance using Semantic Analysis ( VASSA ) , which we will apply on a large scale to online sources such as blogs and news feeds . The VASSA framework , which aims to support the automated extraction and analysis of text in online sources related to vaccination , consists of a Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) module , which is used for semantic analysis and classification , and the VASON , which models existing knowledge about vaccine attitudes . VASON aims to capture domain knowledge regarding vaccine beliefs and attitudes , and it can be used to facilitate concept extraction and analyze the concepts and relationships extracted using the NLP module . The development of the ontology is currently in progress and we are now performing several text extraction experiments using the VASON sub taxonomies adapted and imported from the Vaccine Ontology ( VO ) [ 1 ] and the Disease Ontology ( DO ) ( http://disease ontology.org ) properties and axioms . VASON is intended to provide conceptual structure to organize the vast amount of unstructured data scattered over blog posts , to facilitate blog content analysis , and to enable discovery of patterns of words or phrases in blog text ( eg specifying topics , dates , themes , sentiments , beliefs and so on ) . It also assists in revealing opinionated claims and assertions in blogs and relating authors , forms , functions , geographical locations , audiences of blogs , as well as bloggers’ motives for assertions about vaccination . The data for creating the VASON conceptual model comes from the literature , databases and some of the existing vocabularies and ontologies including : 1 ) Sentiment lexicons such as SentiWordNet [ 2 ] and WordNetAffect [ 3 ] ; 2 ) The VO [ 1 ] , which classifies various licensed vaccines , as well as vaccine candidates in research and trail ; 3 ) The Ontology of Adverse Events [ 4 ] ; and 4 ) The DO and the MEDIC vocabularies [ 5 ] .
683
Figure 1 . A partial view of the VASON conceptual model and the annotation schema representing the existing knowledge in the domain of vaccine sentiment .
In this paper , we report on our work in progress to semantically annotate blog posts on vaccines for future use as a gold standard corpus to train and evaluate automated text extraction .
“ vaccine ” ,
“ immunisation ” ,
2 . METHODS 2.1 Sampling Vaccine Blog Posts Blog posts were sampled using the Google.ca blog search engine with the following search terms : “ immunize ” , “ immunise ” , “ immunization ” , “ vaccinate ” , “ vaccination ” , and “ vax ” . Terms were combined using the “ OR ” operator and were also prefixed with “ pro ” and “ anti ” . We performed two searches on May 11th and June 11th , 2012 . We selected the first 200 blog posts from each Google search and screened the results by reviewing the title and scanning the text for keywords and content . We included blog posts with content on human vaccines , in which bloggers were either pro or antivaccine or had no opinion . We excluded duplicate blogs posts ( the same entry by the same blogger ) , posts with content on animal vaccines , posts lacking vaccine search terms in the text , posts comprised of only two sentences or less , non English language posts , links and posts with content that could not be viewed in our manual annotation software . We initially limited our search to blogspot.com and wordpress.com blog service providers to select blogs with structured profile information for future analysis of the bloggers . However upon the review of our first search results ( May 11th ) , we limited the following search to the blogspot.com blog service provider , as it contained the most structured profile information . We obtained a sample of 182 ( 45.5 % of all retrieved posts ) blog posts after applying our exclusion criteria . From this sample , we randomly selected 10 blog posts to test our annotation schema and guidelines and to measure inter annotator agreement .
2.2 Annotation Schema and Guidelines Our preliminary annotation schema , represented within the conceptual model ( Figure 1 ) , captures common assertions found on anti vaccine websites , such as that vaccines cause illness [ 6 ] . Given that blogs are an informal source , in which bloggers use lay terms and express themselves in many different ways , we iteratively developed an annotation schema and guidelines . We annotated the following concepts in the blog posts : vaccines , diseases , health states and symptoms . Table 1 provides examples of these concepts . We were not interested in annotating concepts within proper nouns ( eg , Center for Disease Control ) , URLs , links or references . Occasionally , bloggers use the terms vaccine or disease in the following context : “ vaccine effectiveness ” or “ disease prevention program ” , and unless a specific vaccine or disease was mentioned ( eg , HPV vaccine effectiveness ) , we did not annotate these terms .
Table 1 . Examples of annotated concepts .
Concept Vaccine
Disease
Health State Symptom
Examples
Vaccine , Vaccination , Gardasil , Shot ,
Inoculation , Immunization
Measles , HPV , MMR , Chickenpox , Infectious disease , Autism , Swine flu
Dead , Death , Killed , Harm , Sick
Rash , Pain , Redness , Local reaction , Adverse event , Side effect , Anaphylaxis
We also annotated asserted relationships between vaccines and diseases , health states or symptoms . Specifically we annotated
684 “ disease is prevented by vaccine ” and “ disease , health state , or symptom is caused by vaccine ” . We were not interested in health states and symptoms of a disease . Therefore we only annotated health states and symptoms when the text implied a direct relationship between a health state or symptom ( is caused by ) and a vaccine . We also annotated co references ( refers to ) to disease and vaccine annotations to distinguish between general and specific disease and vaccine mentions in the text . We annotated co references and relations throughout the blog post and did not restrict our annotation to sentence level relationships . Additionally , we annotated the blogger ’s personal characteristics , such as blogger name and blog post characteristics , such as blog title and blog date . Blog posts were manually classified by sentiment ( pro or anti vaccine ) . The time to annotate a blog post was also recorded . These attributes will be used in future analyses ( once more blogs are annotated ) to explore trends in the concepts and relationships expressed in blog posts and to identify and exclude duplicate blog posts . Our annotations were restricted to the title and body of the blog post . At this phase , we were mainly interested in the blogger ’s view of vaccines , therefore we did not annotate the comments of the blog posts , however we intend to in our future work . In general , the concepts and attributes in the text were annotated first , followed by the relations . Given that bloggers can often be sarcastic , we paid special attention to annotate in context .
2.3 Annotation Examples Below are a few excerpts from our sample to illustrate how concepts and relations were annotated . The words in bold are the terms that were annotated and the words in parentheses denote the concepts and relations . 1 . “ Despite widespread childhood vaccination ( vaccine ; prevents : Bordetella pertussis ) against Bordetella pertussis ( disease ) , disease ( disease ; refers to : Bordetella pertussis ) remains prevalent . ” ( Pro vaccine blog post )
2 . “ The influenza ( disease ) vaccine ( vaccine ; prevents : influenza ; causes : anaphylaxis ) is "convincingly" linked to causing anaphylaxis ( symptom ) , which is why influenza ( disease ) vaccines ( vaccine ; prevents : influenza ; causes : killed ) have killed ( health state ) so many children . ” ( Anti vaccine blog post )
3 . “ MMR ( diseases ) vaccines ( vaccine ; prevents : MMR ; causes : measles , seizures , anaphylaxis , health problems ) cause measles ( disease ) , seizures ( symptom ) , anaphylaxis ( symptom ) and other health problems ( disease ) . ” ( Anti vaccine blog post )
4 . “ That's why every winter , the vast majority of people who catch the flu ( disease ) are the very same people who were vaccinated ( vaccine ; prevents : flu , causes : flu ) against the flu ( disease ) . ” ( Anti vaccine blog post )
2.4 Annotation and Schema Evaluation To improve the consistency of manual coding , three annotators , two with backgrounds in epidemiology and a computer scientist participated in the preparation of the annotated blog posts . Following a the epidemiologists independently annotated ten blog posts ( C 10 ) . The computer scientist examined the annotations and identified errors and inconsistencies . After reviewing discrepancies , differences were session , short training for Text Engineering resolved and two epidemiologists re annotated 5 of the 10 blog posts ( C 5 ) independently . Together , the two epidemiologists reannotated all 10 blog posts to create the final sample . Manual annotation and analyses were performed using the General Architecture ( GATE ) Developer environment [ 7 ] . Inter annotator agreement was computed using the F measure metric . For overlapping annotations , we considered two criteria , Strict and Lenient . In Strict , the partially matching annotations are considered as disagreement and in Lenient , the partially matching annotations are considered as agreement . An attribute or a concept was considered a match if the same term(s ) were annotated and labeled with the correct attribute or concept . A relation ( is prevented by and is caused by ) was considered a match if the same vaccine and disease , health state or symptom terms were annotated and the same disease , health state or symptom term was specified for the relation . A co reference was considered a match if the same vaccine or disease was annotated and specified in the annotation .
3 . RESULTS Among our sample ( N=10 ) of annotated blog posts , 5 were provaccine posts . On average , a blog post took approximately 24 minutes to annotate . Table 2 shows the number of attributes , concepts and relations , annotated by annotator , for the two sets of posts . Table 2 . Number of annotations , by attributes , concepts and relations , per set and annotator . Number of Annotations
Item
First Set ( C 10 )
Second Set ( C 5 )
A
B
A
B
Attributes :
Blog Title Blog Date
Blogger Name Concepts :
Vaccine Disease
Relations : is prevented by is caused by refers to
19 10 16
246 289
76 112 34
18 10 15
248 338
111 157 26
9 5 5
36 39
20 4 4
9 5 5
36 39
21 6 5
Table 3 presents the descriptive statistics of the consensus annotations . On average , two blog titles and one blog date and blogger name were annotated in each blog post . Blog posts with a negative sentiment had on average more annotations ( mean : 90 vs . 62 ) , is caused by relations ( mean : 29.4 vs . 0.6 ) and symptoms and health states compared to posts with a positive sentiment . Table 3 . Number and descriptive statistics of consensus annotations , by concepts and relations , per blog post ( N=10 ) .
Concepts :
Item Overall
Vaccine Disease
Relations : is prevented by is caused by refers to
N 621
248 334
107 150 12
Min 10
Mean 62.1
3 3
0 0 0
24.8 33.4
10.7 15 1.2
Max 213
87 122
30 86 7
685 Inter annotator agreement for the two sets of blog posts are presented in Table 4 . Agreement was satisfactory for the first set ( C 10 ) , however after reviewing the discrepancies , we noticed that most of the differences were due to not following the guidelines ( Ex : health states were annotated in the absence of a link to a vaccine and annotations were missed ) Among the re annotated set , inter annotator agreement increased for all attributes , concepts and relations ( Table 4 ) , with the exception of blog title annotations , which decreased to 55.5 % , due to differences in annotating punctuation . For example , one annotator considered quotation marks as part of the annotation , whereas the other annotator ignored them . There were also a few differences in annotating health states and symptoms . One annotator considered “ Sudden Vaccine Death Syndrome ” as a symptom , while the other annotator considered “ Death ” as a health state . We also observed differences in annotating coreferences . In the following excerpt : “ It was about a Hib meningitis outbreak here in Minnesota in 2009 , which killed an infant and sickened four others . Hib is short for Haemophilus influenza type B . It's one of the basic childhood vaccinations . It's a terrible disease , ” disease refers to “ Hib meningitis ” , “ Hib ” and “ Haemophilus influenza type B ” . However annotators annotated different disease mentions ( “ Haemophilus influenza type B ” and “ Hib meningitis ” ) as the co reference . These differences can be easily resolved by considering the closest mention . Table 4 . Inter annotator agreement , by attributes , concepts and relations , per set .
Item
Attributes :
Blog Title Blog Date Blogger
Concepts :
Vaccine Disease
Relations : is prevented by is caused by refers to
Agreement ( % )
First Set ( C 10 ) Strict Lenient
Second Set ( C 5 ) Strict Lenient
64.8 100 64.5
89.4 73.3
76.5 69.2 47.7
97.2 100 77.4
93.5 88.7
77.9 70.1 47.7
55.5 100 80.0
100 84.6
91.4 66.6 57.1
100 100 100
100 97.4
91.4 80.0 57.1
4 . DISCUSSION In this paper , we report on our first step towards an automated method for vaccine attitude surveillance using blog posts . We demonstrate that attributes , concepts and relations can be manually annotated in a reliable manner for a small sample of blog posts on vaccines . There are limitations to our work . We tested our annotation schema and guidelines on a small sample of blog posts . Although this is not sufficient to evaluate our automated extraction approach , blog posts had on average 62 annotated items , allowing us to adequately test our schema and guidelines . Second , the annotated blog posts may not be representative of the blog posts on vaccines present on the web . In future work , we will expand our search to all blog service providers to ensure representativeness . Finally , we have not examined the effect of conflicting statements in blog posts , however we will investigate this in our future work . We intend to continue to annotate blog posts to build a semantically annotated corpus and extend our annotation to correspond with more concepts and relationships in the VASON ontology . We will then use this corpus to evaluate the accuracy with which our semantic framework extracts and classifies text , and identifies relationships and co references . Additionally , we intend to develop methods for the automatic selection of the relevant blog posts from the web and define more representative semantic queries on the relations between vaccine attitudes , vaccine adverse events , and the risk factors . Finally we will apply our method of extraction and classification to a larger sample of blog posts and news feeds to explore trends in the concepts and relationships expressed in blog posts and news feeds over time , overall and stratified by sentiment , and blogger characteristics .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The project is funded by the Public Health Agency/Canadian Institutes of Health Research Influenza Research Network ( PCIRN ) . We would like to thank Jessica Vineberg for screening blog posts .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] He , Y . , Cowell , L . , Diehl , AD , Mobley , HL , Peters , B . ,
Ruttenberg , A . , Scheuermann , RH , Brinkman , RR , Courtot , M . , Mungall,C . , et al . 2009 . VO : Vaccine Ontology . The 1st International Conference on Biomedical Ontology ( ICBO 2009 ) Nature Precedings . Buffalo , NY .
[ 2 ] Esuli , A . , Sebastiani , F . 2006 . SentiWordNet : a high coverage lexical resource for opinion mining . Technical report ISTI PP 002/2007 , Kluwer Academic Publishers , Netherlands .
[ 3 ] Strapparava , C . and Valitutti , A . 2004 . WordNet Affect : an affective extension of WordNet . In Proc . of LREC , 4 : 1083– 1086 . http://wndomainsfbkeu/wnaffecthtml
[ 4 ] Sarntivijai , S . , Xiang , Z . , Shedden , KA , Markel , H . ,
Omenn , GS , Athey , BD , and He , Y . 2012 . Ontology based combinatorial comparative analysis of adverse events associated with killed and live influenza vaccines . PLoS ONE . 7(11 ) : e49941 . doi:101371/journalpone0049941 [ 5 ] Davis , AP , Wiegers , TC , Rosenstein , MC , Mattingly ,
CJ 2012 . MEDIC : a practical disease vocabulary used at the comparative toxicogenomics database . Database . ( Mar . 2012 ) , bar057 .
[ 6 ] Kata , A . 2000 . A postmodern Pandora ’s box : Anti vaccination misinformation on the Internet . Vaccine . 28 ( Feb 2010 ) , 1709–1716 .
[ 7 ] Cunningham , H . , Maynard , D . , Bontcheva , K . , Tablan , V . , Aswani , N . , Roberts , I . , Gorrell , G . , Funk , A . , Roberts , A . , Damljanovic . D . , Heitz , T . , Greenwood , MA , Saggion , H . , Petrak , J . , Li , Y . , Peters , W . 2011 . Text Processing with GATE ( Ver . 6 ) . University of Sheffield , CS Department .
686
