RepRank : Reputation in a Peer to Peer Online System
Zeqian Shen eBay Research Labs 2145 E Hamilton Ave San Jose , CA 95125 zeqshen@ebay.com
Neel Sundaresan eBay Research Labs 2145 E Hamilton Ave San Jose , CA 95125 nsundaresan@ebay.com
ABSTRACT Peer to peer e commerce networks exemplify online lemon markets . Trust is key to sustaining these networks . We present a reputation system named RepRank that approaches trust with an intuition that in the peer to peer e commerce world consisting of buyers and sellers , good buyers are those who buy from good sellers , and good sellers are those from whom good buyers buy . We propagate trust and distrust in a network using this mutually recursive definition . We discuss the algorithms and present the evaluation results .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
Keywords Reputation ; E commerce
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Over the past decade e commerce , user generated content and recommendations , and social networking applications have become common . As reliance on these applications grow the need for a trust and reputation model has become essential . Feedback in eBay is an expression of reputation . It provides a simple accumulative model for reputation . A positive feedback adds to the score and a negative feedback takes away from it . In this poster , we present a reputation system named RepRank that approaches trust with an intuition that in the peer to peer e commerce world consisting of buyers and sellers , good buyers are those who buy from good sellers , and good sellers are those from whom good buyers buy . RepRank propagates trust and distrust in a network using this mutually recursive definition . The major contributions of our work include : implementing an effective reputation system for a peer to peer e commerce marketplace based on the network of user opinions ; incorporating unique features such as distrust propagation , transaction quality , and time decay of opinions into the system ; showing the effectiveness of the system through evaluation with practical use cases .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
2 . REPRANK
Our reputation system , RepRank , is based on the mechanism that buyers and sellers leave opinions about each others based on their experience in transactions . We model the users and opinions as a directed graph G = ( V , E ) , where each vertex vi denotes a user . ri denotes the reputation of user vi . If user vi has given an opinion oij towards user vj , an edge eij exists . A user ’s reputation is the aggregated opinion of others towards him/her . The key idea of our approach is that an opinion should be weighted by the reputation of who gives it . Those users with prestige reputation are often experienced ones , since the reputations are gained through past transactions . Therefore , the system implies the intuition that experienced users’ opinions are more valuable than novices’ opinions . Since an opinion is based on a user ’s experience in a particular transaction , it should also be weighted by the quality of the transaction , ie , wij . Therefore , the reputation can be calculated as rj = Xeij ∈E riwijoij .
( 1 )
The opinion is either positive ( trustij ) or negative ( distrustij ) . A user can leave multiple opinions towards another . trustij and distrustij are set to be the number positive and negative opinions that vi left for vj , respectively . The scenario of considering only the trust is similar to traditional linkbased ranking algorithms for Web pages , eg , PageRank [ 1 ] and HITS [ 3 ] . In these algorithms , every incoming link contributes positively to a webpage ’s importance score . Therefore , we adopt the PageRank algorithm for propagating the reputation along the trust relations . The dampening , splitting and random surfers also apply to the trust propagation in our system . The reputation in Eq 1 is thus extended to r =
1 − d |V | e + dT r ,
( 2 ) where T is the trust propagation matrix :
Tij =( wij trustij
Pj wij trustij 0 if eij ∈ E ; if eij /∈ E
The reputation based on trust can be computed iteratively . Since the iterations are guaranteed to converge , an arbitrary set of initial reputations can be used . Normally , the initial reputation of all the users are set to be the same , ie , r0 = |V | e .
1
The distrust between users makes our reputation system different from the linkage network of webpages , where an inlink always adds to the importance of a page . In an online
163 Figure 1 : Cumulative Disputes ( a ) and Sales of Sellers ( b ) by Different Rankings . The red curve denotes RepRank , the blue one is the baseline ranking using feedback scores and the green one is using feedback percentages . The curve denotes the cumulative value associated with the top x sellers . For example , in 1(a ) , a point ( x , y ) on the curve denotes that the top x sellers sold y items.In 1(b ) , it denotes that the top x sellers generate y customer disputes ( Bad Buyer Experience ) . marketplace , a user leaves a negative feedback to the other party when he/she has a bad experience in the transaction . Similar to the trust relations , the distrust propagation matrix is
DTij =( wij distrustij
Pj wij distrustij 0 if eij ∈ E ; if eij /∈ E
The negative feedback from a reputable user should affect other ’s reputation negatively . Properly incorporating the distrust into the reputation system is challenging . In [ 2 ] , Guha et . al compared various ways of propagating the distrust . Their results show that one step distrust propagation generates the best results . This conclusion is also intuitive for a peer to peer marketplace . Therefore , we choose to propagate the distrust once after the trust propagation , ie , rdistrust = DT rtrustThe final reputation is the sum of reputation scores derived from trust and distrust propagation , ie,r = rtrust + rdistrust Another uniqueness of the reputation system for an online marketplace is that the user opinions are short term compared to the webpage links , because they pertain to a particular transaction in the past . Therefore , the reputation system should emphasize on the recent opinions . A time decaying function fdecay(t ) is thus introduced and applied to both trust and distrust parts of the system .
3 . REDUCING DISPUTES
As an online marketplace , reducing customer disputes is one of the top goals . It does not only reduce the customer service cost , but also lead to a better shopping experience for customers . Normally , this is achieved by removing the worst sellers based on a ranking from the marketplace , which often means losing sales at the same time . In this use case , we would like a good ranking that enables us to remove the bad sellers without losing a significant amount of sales . Therefore , we evaluate the rankings by both sales and disputes . In Figure 1(a ) , we can see that the top 2 ∗ 106 sellers in both feedback score ranking and our ranking made the similar amount of total sales . It is about 2 % difference . However , Figure 1(b ) shows that these top sellers in our ranking generate for 87.2 % of the total disputes , while these top sellers in feedback score ranking is responsible for 96.3 % of the total disputes . In other words , if we suspend the worst sellers and only keep the top 2 ∗ 106 sellers according both rankings , our ranking could reduce about 9 % more disputes while keep the sales at the similar amount . The ranking based on feedback percentages is very different from that from the feedback scores and our ranking . Suspensions based on feedback percentage could remove most disputes , but the sales would be totally impacted . Overall , RepRank outperforms the feedback scores and the feedback percentages in reducing the customer disputes .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this poster , we introduce RepRank , an effective reputation system for a peer to peer e commerce marketplace , which is based on opinions between users . RepRank is unique because of incorporating distrust propagation , transaction quality , and time decay of opinions . We present experimental results that compare our ranking with the current feedback score system . RepRank outperforms the feedback score ranking in reducing customer disputes .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Brin . and L . Page . The anatomy of a large scale hypertextual web search engine . Computer Networks and ISDN Systems , 30(1 7):107–117 , 1998 .
[ 2 ] R . Guha , R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , and A . Tomkins .
Propagation of trust and distrust . In Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 403–412 . ACM , 2004 .
[ 3 ] J . Kleinberg . Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment . Journal of the ACM ( JACM ) , 46(5):604–632 , 1999 .
164
