Living Analytics Methods for the Web Observatory
Ernesto Diaz Aviles L3S Research Center
University of Hannover , Germany diaz@L3S.de
ABSTRACT The collective effervescence of social media production has been enjoying a great deal of success in recent years . The hundred of millions of users who are actively participating in the Social Web are exposed to ever growing amounts of sites , relationships , and information .
In this paper , we report part of the efforts towards the realization of a Web Observatory at the L3S Research Center ( wwwL3Sde ) In particular , we present our approach based on Living Analytics methods , whose main goal is to capture people interactions in real time and to analyze multidimensional relationships , metadata , and other data becoming ubiquitous in the social web , in order to discover the most relevant and attractive information to support observation , understanding and analysis of the Web . We center the discussion on two areas : ( i ) Recommender Systems for Big Fast Data and ( ii ) Collective Intelligence , both key components towards an analytics toolbox for our Web Observatory .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H3.3 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information filtering ; K.4 [ Computer and Society ]
General Terms Design , Human Factors , Algorithms
Keywords Web Observatory ; Big Fast Data ; Recommender Systems ; Collective Intelligence
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Web of people is highly dynamic and the life experiences between our on line and “ real world ” interactions are increasingly interconnected . The massive amounts of information from people ’s daily living interactions require new and innovative analytic models to observe , understand and predict the dynamics of the actors and components of the Web .
The objective of such Living Analytics models is to help people live better , for example , by assisting them with the overwhelming amount of choices they face as they consume goods , services , social media and leisure time [ 10 ] . Living
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Analytics aims at capturing people interactions in real time , and at analyzing and processing them in order to produce valuable output that is fed back to the Web of people for the benefit of its members .
Consider , for example , a system envisioned to support its users to conduct reliable assessments of dynamics topics on the Web , such as : views on political developments , economic events and crises , as well as pandemics or natural catastrophes . Moreover , Social Media technologies have given rise to citizen journalism , so the public at large may actively contribute to generating new content in these areas . The goal of such system is to go beyond individual resources to an aggregated overview , by automatically collecting the relevant sources , extracting the required data , aggregating the results , and finally enabling in depth investigation with tools designed to support visual analysis . The need for overviews of high volume and user generated content is crucial for many stakeholders , for example , journalists , opinion analysts , social scientists , public safety institutions , product designers and marketers , and well as the general public .
On line applications that tackle the information deluge problem exist , at least for selected topics . For example , detecting the global trends based on the volume of Twitter1 messages ( tweets ) or generating visualizations from publicly available statistics , eg , Google Public Data Explorer2 . While these tools are very useful , the respective services tend to be limited to a very small fraction of interesting information . In addition , users are presented with “ one size fits all ” solutions that do not necessarily reflect their individual interests .
Having this scenario in mind , several interesting research questions arise in the scope of Living Analytics . For example :
• Understanding and Predicting Behavior in RealTime Context . What theoretical , methodological , and empirical extensions are needed to observe and analyze the behavior of users and groups in the network in near or real time , as it is occurring ? and how is it possible to follow the evolution of network behavior over extended periods of time ?
• Collective Intelligence . What content do people create and share ? How can the collective behavior of people be harnessed to solve complex tasks ? How does
1twitter.com . 2wwwgooglecom/publicdata/
1321 collective intelligence evolve over time ? How can the trends observed in social media be employed to improve discovery performance ?
• Real Time Modeling and Experimentation . How can the ability to update predictive models , as well as , execute and interpret experiments in these real time networked settings of users , and their group interactions , be realized and improved ?
In this paper , we discuss our approach to some of these challenges and present a set of tools to capture people ’s interactions from a highly dynamic stream of data , which help to understand user preferences and predict user actions . In particular , we center our discussion around recommender systems for big fast data and collective intelligence .
2 . TOWARDS OUR WEB OBSERVATORY Undoubtedly , analytics methods for the social web are becoming increasingly necessary to make sense out of the huge amount of user generated content and reduce the complexity for human user understanding . Current research greatly benefits from cross disciplines , including machine learning , recommender systems , and computational social science . The integration of interdisciplinary evidence also represents an important ingredient of our efforts towards the Web Observatory at the L3S Research Center .
Our approach based on Living Analytics combines the key technologies of statistical machine learning , large scale data mining , and computational tools for the analysis of dynamic social networks with analytics focused on user behavior and social media . For example , matrix factorization in collaborative filtering systems [ 9 ] , social stream mining [ 14 ] , social tagging systems [ 8 ] , epidemic intelligence [ 6 ] , computational social science [ 7 ] and sentiment analysis [ 11 ] .
Our current main objective is to provide a set of tools to capture people ’s interactions from a highly dynamic stream data , automatically annotate resources on the Web , and to understand and predict user actions and preferences . The objective of such Living Analytics models is not only to observe and analyze the web , but also to assist people with the overwhelming amount of choices they face as they consume goods , services , social media and leisure time [ 13 ] . Recommender Systems for Big Fast Data The main problem is not the actual access to the content ( eg , Twitter or YouTube ) , rather the problem is to transform this huge mass of data into useful insight . Effective recommendation systems and personalized ranking are key elements in this scenario . In particular , instead of creating one global ranking , we tackle the problem of personalized ranking , that is , the rankings should reflect the individual taste of the users .
Based on these ideas , we have introduced methods that in the presence of highly dynamic social media streams , create in real time user specific rankings based on individual preferences that are inferred from users’ past system interactions . Our online ranking approaches for collaborative filtering are based on matrix factorization . At their core stochastic gradient descent is used for optimization , which makes the algorithms easy to implement and efficiently scalable to large scale datasets .
We have demonstrated the usefulness of our methods for the task of recommending personalized topics to users . Having Twitter as test bed , we showed that our online approaches largely outperform highly competitive state of theart matrix factorization techniques for collaborative filtering , not only in terms of recommendation quality , but also in terms of time and space savings [ 1 , 2 ] . Collective Intelligence In the scope of Collective Intelligence [ 12 ] , we explored and demonstrated the potential of monitor social media streams ( eg , Twitter ) for early warning of disease outbreaks . Furthermore , for outbreak analysis and control , many studies have been made for systems that return documents in response to a query . Little effort has been devoted to exploiting learning to rank in a personalized setting , specially in the domain of epidemic intelligence . In [ 5 , 4 ] , we presented an innovative personalized ranking approach that offers decision makers the most relevant and attractive tweets for risk assessment , by exploiting latent topics and social hashtagging behavior in Twitter .
For Computational Social Science , we conducted an empirical study that shows how the real time nature of social media streams , in particular , Twitter , can be leveraged to take the pulse of political emotions in emerging regions of the world , namely : Latin America . We performed a sentiment analysis of tweets and brief blog posts over a period of six months . This work presents , not only the extracted emotions and polarity , but also goes a step forward and quantifies which combination of emotions explains better the public ’s opinion [ 3 ] .
The aforementioned studies constitute key components towards an analytics toolbox for our Web Observatory . The lessons learned through these works also open exciting directions for future research , which are outlined in the next section .
3 . FUTURE DIRECTIONS
There are several potential future directions we want to explore , particularly related to information filtering in the presence of highly dynamic data .
• Better Learning Algorithms for Online Collaborative Filtering . The success of collaborative filtering heavily relies upon the ability to translate the observed behavior to a meaningful cost function . We strongly believe that The Top N recommendation task needs to be treated as a ranking problem as discussed in [ 1 , 2 ] . The exploration of directly optimizing information retrieval metrics for personalized ranking has started and may significantly improve recommendation performance .
• Prediction of Individual and Collective Behavior in Real Time Context . Modeling complex nonlinear dynamics and high dimensional data , such as social media streams , is an active area of research in machine learning and recommender systems . Many of the existing models , such as matrix factorization and neighborhood based algorithms have been widely used in practice . However , these models are limited in the types of structure they can model . What other methods could potentially capture nonlinear dynamics and
1322 also make multimodal predictions handling missing inputs ?
• Real Time Experimentation . How to conduct experimental evaluations at large scale in real time networked settings involving users and their group interactions ? A/B testing is a common practice in the industry to evaluate new project features and to support decision making processes , but such evaluations are expensive and time consuming . The exploration of new approaches that align long term goals with the objective functions optimized by the learning models is an interesting research direction .
• From Datasets to Modelsets . Given the large scale of the data to be observed , it is challenging to efficiently capture it all , and share it across Web Observatories . Furthermore , the intellectual property rights and terms of service are issues that cannot be ignored . We believe that besides the efforts of sharing the data , we can also focus on building the mechanisms for sharing the models built on the data observed over time . One major advantage of these modelsets is that they are usually of a much smaller footprint than the datasets used to build them . The modelsets can then be shared across the Web Observatories , and applied to analyze the current stream or to predict new events . Such models can also be designed to be updated online , as discussed in Section 2 .
4 . CONCLUSION
Our research on collaborative filtering in social media streams and collective intelligence , expands focus into new directions , namely that of the emerging science of the Web . The methods presented in this paper constitute a set of tools to understand and analyze the social web following a Living Analytics approach towards our Web Observatory at the L3S Research Center . Note that the analytics toolbox presented is by no means complete , giving interesting opportunities for future research .
We have outlined several potential research directions . However , research on Living Analytics as unified field is very new , and there are many broad open questions to consider as outlined in the Introduction . We believe that answering many of those questions will allow us to build more intelligent Web Observatories for the benefit of society .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Diaz Aviles , L . Drumond , Z . Gantner ,
L . Schmidt Thieme , and W . Nejdl . What Is Happening Right Now That Interests Me ? Online Topic Discovery And Recommendation In Twitter . In
Proceedings of the 21st ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management , CIKM ’12 , 2012 .
[ 2 ] E . Diaz Aviles , L . Drumond , L . Schmidt Thieme , and W . Nejdl . Real time Top N Recommendation In Social Streams . In Proceedings of the Sixth ACM Conference on Recommender Systems , RecSys ’12 , pages 59–66 , New York , NY , USA , 2012 . ACM .
[ 3 ] E . Diaz Aviles , C . Orellana Rodriguez , and W . Nejdl .
Taking The Pulse of Political Emotions In Latin America Based on Social Web Streams . In LA WEB ’12 : Proceedings of the 2012 Latin American Web Conference . IEEE Computer Society , 2012 .
[ 4 ] E . Diaz Aviles , A . Stewart , E . Velasco , K . Denecke , and W . Nejdl . Epidemic Intelligence For The Crowd By The Crowd . In Proceedings of the Sixth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , Dublin , Ireland , June 4 7 , 2012 , 2012 .
[ 5 ] E . Diaz Aviles , A . Stewart , E . Velasco , K . Denecke , and W . Nejdl . Towards Personalized Learning To Rank For Epidemic Intelligence Based on Social Media Streams . In Procedings of the 21st International Conference Companion on World Wide Web , WWW ’12 Companion , pages 495–496 , New York , NY , USA , 2012 . ACM .
[ 6 ] M . Fisichella , A . Stewart , A . Cuzzocrea , and
K . Denecke . Detecting Health Events on The Social Web To Enable Epidemic Intelligence . In String Processing and Information Retrieval , volume 7024 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science . SPIRE’11 , pages 87–103 . Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 2011 .
[ 7 ] J . Giles . Computational Social Science : Making The
Links . Nature , 488(7412):448–450 , Aug . 2012 .
[ 8 ] R . J¨aschke , L . Marinho , A . Hotho ,
L . Schmidt Thieme , and G . Stumme . Tag Recommendations In Social Bookmarking Systems . AI Communications , pages 231–247 , 2008 .
[ 9 ] Y . Koren , R . Bell , and C . Volinsky . Matrix
Factorization Techniques For Recommender Systems . Computer , August 2009 .
[ 10 ] LARC . Living Analytics Research Center . http://wwwlarcsmuedusg/ , 2013 .
[ 11 ] B . Liu . Sentiment Analysis And Opinion Mining .
Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies . Morgan & Claypool Publishers , 2012 .
[ 12 ] MIT . Handbook of Collective Intelligence ( wiki ) , 2013 . [ 13 ] B . Schwartz . The Paradox of Choice : Why More Is
Less . Harper Perennial , 2004 .
[ 14 ] A . Zubiaga . Real time Analysis And Mining of Social
Streams . In International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , ICWSM’12 , 2012 .
1323
