DataConf : Enriching conference publications with a mobile mashup application
Lionel Médini
Université de Lyon , CNRS
Université Lyon 1 , LIRIS , UMR5205
F 69622 , France +33 4 72 43 16 36 lionel.medini at liriscnrsfr
Florian Bâcle Université de Lyon Université Lyon 1 F 69622 , France florian.bacle
at etuuniv lyon1fr
Nguyen Hoang Duy Tan
Université de Lyon Université Lyon 1 F 69622 , France hoang_duy_tan.nguyen
at yahoo.com
ABSTRACT This paper describes a mobile Web application that allows browsing conference publications , their authors , authors’ organizations , and even authors’ other publications or publications related to the same keywords . It queries a main SPARQL endpoint that serves the conference metadata set , as well as other endpoints to enrich and explore data . It provides extra functions , such as flashing a publication QR code from the Web browser , accessing external resources about the publications , and it can be linked to external Web services . This application exploits the Linked Data paradigm and performs client side reasoning . It follows recent W3C technical advances and as a mashup , requires few server resources . It can easily be deployed for any conference with available metadata on the Web .
Categories and Subject Descriptors E12 [ DATA ] : Data structures – Distributed data structures .
General Terms Design , Human Factors , Standardization .
Keywords mobile Web , mobile reasoning , mashup , Linked Data , publication browsing .
1 . INTRODUCTION
The WWW’2012 conference that was held in Lyon was an occasion for the local Web community to initiate several innovating projects around conference material and Web technologies . We designed a mobile Web application to augment the poster track by representing posters as physical objects on the Web . This app initially targeted conference attendees discovering the 100 posters exposed at this track and allowed them to navigate among poster metadata ( title , authors , abstract , keywords… ) , as well as authors and other publications metadata , using their smartphones and tablets . Each poster was associated with a QRCode encoding the poster URI ; flashing a code led to the corresponding poster view . Posters can also be searched from the application homepage . As the whole conference publication metadata set was available , we extended our application to all the conference publications .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . towards a
As it targeted a WWW series conference , technical choices were oriented full Web application applying recent/emerging Web technologies and standards . In particular , HTML5 APIs encouraged us designing the application as clientsided as possible . It also takes advantage of Linked Data by enriching publication metadata from several sources . We thus explored the feasibility , using currently available browsers on mobile devices , of : ( i ) dynamically constructing complex SPARQL queries and sending them to cross domain endpoints , ( ii ) representing and allowing browsing among these metadata using a textual and a graphical interface , ( iii ) locally building , classifying and querying an ontology and ( iv ) capturing and processing images in JavaScript using the device built in camera .
In this paper , we present a generic , configurable version of this application . It can easily be deployed for any conference that has its publication metadata available on the Web . Moreover , the WWW’2012 experience showed that a conference schedule was a dynamic artifact : session rooms frequently changed and paper presentations even took place in different session that the ones initially planned . Printing this schedule necessarily led to an obsolete version of this artifact . In order to provide an accurate version of the time schedule , the herein presented version of our app can be coupled with a Web service that exposes the conference schedule , allowing attendees to view the time and location of a paper presentation while browsing its metadata on their smartphones . The application homepage can be accessed at http://dataconfliriscnrsfr/ and the sources are downloadable at https://githubcom/ucbl/DataConf
This paper is organized as follows : we first present the two main functions related to metadata querying and processing , followed by the application other functions . We then conclude and present evolution perspectives of this app .
2 . Linked Metadata browsing
A publication homepage shows its metadata , based on the data received from the endpoint serving the conference metadata set . Semantic Web Conference ( SWC ) and Semantic Web for Research Communities ( SWRC ) ontology models . Metadata are enriched so that authors and keywords are navigable . Clicking on an author provides information such as name , most probable homepage , affiliation organization , co authors , publications in the desired track/conference and other publications . Among these data , the organization , co authors and publications items are navigable . The “ organization ” page displays the name , homepage and other authors referred in DBLP for this organization , and the “ Other publications ” page displays DBLP specific metadata about the publications ( title , DOI URI , year , publication type and name of the conference / journal ) . The co authors list of an author is a typical Linked Data usage example of the available data : it is generated after parsing the other publications list and gathering each all authors of each publication . Another feature of our application enables users to browse the DBLP database from an author or publication view . Such a feature seemed interesting for evaluating the interest conference attendees would find in our interface for browsing large publications databases . To extract and enrich metadata , we use 3 SPARQL endpoints :
SWDF1 contains ( among other conferences ) the metadata about the WWW’2012 conference in the SWRC and SWC formats . We rely on this endpoint for accessing publication metadata . SWDF [ 1 ] recommendation working draft . accessed using the CORS is
DBLP / L3S2 provides a wider dataset , used to enrich SWDF paper metadata , such as other publications of an author ; but it lacks publications keywords . As L3S is not CORS enabled , this server is accessed using JSONP [ 2 ] .
DuckDuckGo! RDF data access3 is a search engine that can be queried in SPARQL . We also use it for metadata enrichment . As we do not want to retrieve all data satisfying a query but get the most probable value ( eg get an author ’s or organization homepage ) , we use its “ I’m feeling ducky ” feature , with the risk to end up on another page . DuckDuckGo! is accessed using JSONP .
3 . Local ontology enrichment and reasoning
Our application also allows browsing by keywords . As DBLP does not provide information about publications keywords , navigable keywords list is only accessible for publications that have an entry in SWDF . For each of those publications , our application dynamically constructs an ontology composed of the publication , its keywords , its authors , their other publications and the keywords of these publications .
Once the data gathered , we launch a classification process using the OWLReasoner [ 3 ] JS inference engine in order to be able to launch SPARQL queries on keywords ( eg suggesting other publications that match the same keywords , more generic ones , or publications of the same authors that match the user ’s keywords ) . For this , we rely on the taxonomy of the conference keywords ( extracted from the call for papers pages ) and the locally stored user ’s keywords in this taxonomy .
4 . Other features
Publication and author search : forms allow accessing a publication or author ’s description page . In each form , automatic suggestions are provided by sending asynchronous SPARQL requests to the metadata server . Some requests require recursively querying transitive properties ( eg swc:isSubEventOf ) . This is only done for endpoints that support SPARQL 11 In order to avoid overflowing SPARQL 1.0 servers with chained requests , for the latter , we use other relations existing in the ontology .
View metadata as graphs : users can choose to view and the tree based graphical representations of in navigate
1 http://datasemanticweborg/ 2 http://dblpl3sde/d2r/ 3 http://duckduckgo.com/1/c/RDF_data_access publications , authors or keywords . The graphical representation is built using the JavaScript Infovis toolkit4 .
Flashing a QR code inside the Web application : in browsers that support the getUserMedia API or the capture input type , users can take a picture of the QR representing a paper URI and send it to the server . It is then decoded using the ZXing library and the user is redirected to the paper homepage . Of course one can also flash the QR codes using a native application to retrieve the same publication homepage .
External services : we also introduced the possibility of linking the application to extra services regarding the conference publications . For instance , we worked with the company who designed the WWW’2012 schedule database , so that our app can add to the displayed metadata of a paper , the time and location of the session where it will be presented .
Extra information access : URIs of extra material ( detailed PDF , video presentation… ) can be stored in our database and displayed in the homepage of the corresponding paper . For WWW’2012 posters , the 2 page PDF papers published in the proceedings are accessible by clicking on the posters ids .
5 . Conclusion
Our mobile Web application proposes various features among which querying and browsing conference publications . It has been designed wrt recent Web standards and technologies and so that as much computation as possible is done on client side : we use cross domain requests to access and enrich the metadata from three different SPARQL endpoints ; during the navigation , the application constructs a local ontology and uses it for suggesting publications to the user . Server side dynamic content is only used to store extra data about the publications , such as the keyword ontology . Additional features provided by our app on different browsers may vary depending on the technologies they embed , but the core functions ( ie metadata navigation ) is available on all browsers .
Since the last edition of the WWW Conference , we refactored the application . It is now both generic and modular . Using an XML configuration file , a conference chair can now specify several URIs , referencing the conference metadata set , the different tracks exposed to the application users and other data . We tested our app with several datasets related to different conferences available on the SWDF website . During the demo , we will show how to write a configuration file to tailor our application to a conference once its metadata set has been made available on the web . An instance will probably be deployed to query the WWW’2013 dataset when it is available .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Cross Origin Resource Sharing . W3C Candidate
Recommendation , 29 January 2013 : http://wwww3org/TR/cors/
[ 2 ] Ippolito , B . , 2005 . Remote JSON – JSONP . Available at : http://bobippolito/archives/2005/12/05/remote json jsonp/
[ 3 ] OWLReasoner JavaScript Inference engine . Available at : http://codegooglecom/p/owlreasoner/
4 http://thejit.org/
