Co operative Content Adaptation Framework
Satisfying Consumer and Content Creator in Resource Constrained Browsing
Ayush Dubey Cornell University dubey@cscornelledu
Pradipta De SUNY Korea pradiptade@sunykoreaackr
Kuntal Dey , Sumit Mittal , Vikas Agarwal , Malolan Chetlur , Sougata Mukherjea
{kuntadey , sumittal , avikas , mchetlur , smukherj}@inibmcom
IBM Research India
ABSTRACT Mobile Web is characterized by two salient features , ( i ) ubiquitous access to content and ( ii ) limited resources , like bandwidth and battery . Since most web pages are designed for the wired Internet , it is challenging to adapt the pages seamlessly to ensure a satisfactory mobile web experience . Content heavy web pages lead to longer load time on mobile browsers . Pre defined load order of items in a page does not adapt to mobile browsing habits , where user looks for different snippets of a page to load under different contexts . Web content adaptation for mobile web has mainly focused on the user to define her preferences for content . We propose a framework where content creator is additionally included in guiding the adaptation . Allowing content creator to specify importance of items in a page also helps in factoring her incentives by pushing revenue generating content . We present mechanisms to enable cooperative content adaptation . Preliminary results show the efficacy of cooperative content adaptation in resource constrained mobile browsing scenario .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Web based Services General Terms : Design , Performance Keywords : Mobile Browsing , Content Adaptation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Mobile web popularity and usage is surpassing fixed Internet . But mobile web tends to suffer from restrictions , like data usage cap , low network bandwidth , limited battery power . Yet , the users often expect the same level of experience as the wired Internet . Web pages , which were mostly text based , have evolved in complexity with various embedded media content [ 2 , 3 ] . Bloated web pages take longer to download on mobile , consuming more resources [ 7 ] . On mobile web , where the average connection speed can vary from 324 Kbps to 7.8 Mbps [ 1 ] , user experience varies significantly . Several companies are developing multiple web experiences , namely mobile optimized websites . But many companies lack the budget and resources to manage multiple web experiences . Browsing habits of users in mobile web and fixed Internet are significantly different . While desktop and tablet users often search for deeper information , the mobile user tends to seek small snippets of easily consumable information compatible with the context . The possible contexts can be diverse and dynamic in nature .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
Web content adaptation has been an answer to the challenges , especially to adapt to the device , network and browser variability . Adaptation to manage scarce resources like limited data download plans is addressed by [ 4 ] . On use of context and user preference , Urica uses explicit user preference [ 6 ] , while Mimosa automatically determines user context to adapt the content [ 5 ] . However , none of the web content adaptation approaches include the content creator , who is well aware about the semantic importance of the content .
We propose that the content creator and the user to be part of the web content adaptation process , while adapting content under resource limitations . In cooperative content adaptation , the content creator tags the importance of each item in a page during creation . For instance , in a news page , the content creator can tag the most important news item . The user expresses her preference for different content blocks , like image , video , audio and advertisements , under different contexts . For example , while walking , user may prefer audio content over video . Before servicing a web page request , first a combined score for each item in a page is computed based on the importance assigned by content creator and the preference set by user for the context she is in . Then , items are loaded based on the highest combined score , thereby loading the most relevant items till a resource is used up .
2 . ADAPTATION FRAMEWORK
Two key design considerations in cooperative content adaptation are ( i ) ease of assigning preferences or scores for items , and ( ii ) combining the scores to generate an ordered list for loading sequentially . A web page consists of different classes of content , viz . text , image , audio , video , advertisements . A user specifies the order of importance among these items in different contexts , instead of assigning importance to each individual item . On the other hand , the content creator assigns importance to each item , thereby ranking each item . The implementation of the score assignment framework can benefit from the HTML5 standards by introducing additional attributes .
Given user and developer preferences for each item , and the resource budget of the device , the content selection problem is formulated as follows . Let there be m items in a page consisting of images , videos , audios , and ads etc . Let there be n resources for which the maximum usage budget is specified as Rj , where j ∈ {1 , 2 , . . . , n} . Let X be the boolean vector which denotes a specific selection of items . We need to find the selection X which maximizes a utility function , F , as : arg max F(X ) , xi ∈ {0 , 1} such that : ∀j ∈ {1 , 2 . . . , n} xirij ≤ Rj m . i=1
221 m .
We aim to maximize the combined user and developer satisfaction , based on their scores for individual items . Therefore the utility function , F , is the sum of the combined scores of user and developer , represented as : F(X ) = xizi , where zi represents a composite score ( single value ) per item by combining the user and developer ’s score for that item . We consider a vector , Z , of size m , that contains the zi values . Z is computed as : Z = f ( D , U ) , where D and U are vectors of size m representing developer and user scores for each item respectively . For our experimental purposes , we apply the scalar product operator on the D and U vectors : Z = f ( D , U ) = DU i=1
Implementation of the framework assumes an intermediate proxy , hosted by a service provider , that executes the optimization algorithm for item selection and delivery . However , this requires user preferences to be exposed to the service provider . Alternatively a privacy preserving design , similar to client only browser [ 8 ] , can also be implemented where the selection of items is done on the device . Instead of fetching each item , the device receives a summary file that provides the size of each item on the web page . With the sizes as input , the optimization algorithm runs on the device .
3 . PRELIMINARY RESULT
To validate cooperative content adaptation , we load a web page from a news site with and without adaptation . We observe the difference in how the items in a page are loaded when user and content creator preference is taken into consideration , in comparison to without any adaptation . The request for the page is issued from an Android browser . User preferences and content creator scores for each item is shown in Figure 1 . g n i t a R
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0 0
Developer User
5
10
15
20 Item id
25
30
35
Figure 1 : News site : Preference scores from developer and user for each item in the page
Figure 2 shows the order in which the items were loaded from the same page without and with adaptation . With cooperative content adaptation , more relevant items are loaded early into the browser . Hence if there is a cutoff in terms of number of bytes to be loaded , with adaptation more relevant items will be loaded before the less relevant items .
4 . CONCLUSION
User experience in mobile web is affected by factors , like device diversity , network bandwidth and resource limitations . Growing complexity of web pages adversely affects page load time in a mobile browser . When a mobile user is interested in a snippet of a page , waiting for the entire page to load could be frustrating . Dynamic web content adaptation , guided by user preference in different contexts , helps in improving user experience in mobile web . However , involving content creator in the adaptation process can improve user experience further . Cooperative content adaptation technique takes into account user ’s preference for content
( a ) Web page items loaded without adaptation
( b ) Web page items loaded with adaptation
Figure 2 : News site : Comparison of items selected and the loading order with and without using cooperative adaptation . Yaxis shows the item id and loading order , color and length of the bar denotes combined importance score and load time for the item respectively . types , along with importance assigned by content creator , to generate an order to load the items in a page . Under resource constraints , like limited download capacity , more relevant items are loaded first . Preliminary result on a news site shows the efficacy of the approach .
Acknowledgment The work is ( partially ) supported by IT Consilience Creative Project through the Ministry of Knowledge Economy , Republic of Korea .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Akamai Q3 2012 report summary . http://wwwakamaicom/dl/akamai/akamai_soti_q312_exec_summarypdf
[ 2 ] M . Butkiewicz , H . V . Madhyastha , and V . Sekar . Understanding website complexity : measurements , metrics , and implications . In IMC , 2011 .
[ 3 ] J . Charzinski . Traffic properties , client side cachability and cdn usage of popular web sites . In MMB & DFT , 2010 .
[ 4 ] S . Chava , R . Ennaji , J . Chen , and L . Subramanian . Cost aware mobile web browsing . IEEE Pervasive Computing , 99 , 2012 .
[ 5 ] D . Malandrino , F . Mazzoni , D . Riboni , C . Bettini , M . Colajanni , and V . Scarano .
Mimosa : context aware adaptation for ubiquitous web access . Personal and Ubiquitous Computing , 14(4):301–320 , 2010 .
[ 6 ] I . Mohomed , J . C . Cai , and E . de Lara . Urica : Usage aware interactive content adaptation for mobile devices . In EuroSys , 2006 .
[ 7 ] N . Thiagarajan , G . Aggarwal , A . Nicoara , D . Boneh , and J . P . Singh . Who killed my battery ? : analyzing mobile browser energy consumption . In WWW , 2012 .
[ 8 ] Z . Wang , F . X . Lin , L . Zhong , and M . Chishtie . How far can client only solutions go for mobile browser speed ? In WWW , 2012 .
222
