Extracting the Multilevel Communities Based on Network
Structural and Nonstructural Information
Xin Liu † ‡ § tsinllew@aicstitechacjp †Tokyo Institute of Technology
2 12 1 Ookayama
Meguro , Tokyo 152 8552 Japan
Tsuyoshi Murata † murata@cstitechacjp
Ken Wakita † ‡ wakita@istitechacjp
‡CREST , JST
K ’s Gobancho , 7 , Gobancho
Chiyoda , Tokyo 102 0076 Japan
§Wuhan University of Technology
122 Luoshi Road Wuhan , Hubei 430070 China
ABSTRACT Many real world networks contain nonstructural information on nodes , such as the spatial coordinate of a location , profile of a person , or contents of a web page . In this paper , we propose Dist Modularity , a unified modularity measure , which is useful in extracting the multilevel communities based on network structural and nonstructural information .
Categories and Subject Descriptors G22 [ Discrete Mathematics ] : Graph Theory—graph algorithms , network problems
Keywords modularity ; community structure ; social network
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Modularity [ 2 ] is a measure for evaluating the “ goodness ” of a partition of a network into communities . The definition of modularity involves a comparison between the observed network and a null model , which serves as a reference . This null model should characterize some features of the observed network . However , the previously used null models are not good representations of real world networks and thus result in less accurate modularity . A common feature of many realworld networks is “ similarity attraction ( SA ) ” , ie , nodes that are similar have a higher chance of getting connected . In this paper , we create a new null model that captures the SA feature . Based on this null model we propose DistModularity . Compared with the famous NG Modularity [ 2 ] proposed by Newman and Girvan , Dist Modularity has the following advantages : 1 ) It applies to networks that contain nonstructural information . 2 ) It is useful in extracting the multilevel communities .
2 . DIST MODULARITY
For simplicity , we limit our vision to undirected networks . Suppose m and n are the numbers of edges and nodes , respectively . We use dij to denote the similarity distance between nodes vi and vj : the smaller of dij , the more similar of the two nodes . The estimation of dij is out of the focus
Figure 1 : Extracting the multilevel communities and exploring the community evolution . of this paper . In general , dij can be estimated by a distance function that takes the network structural or nonstructural information about vi and vj as input .
2
Pn
˜Pij + ˜Pji ij = t=1 Nt f ( dti ) .
, where ˜Pij = NiNj f ( dij )
In the following , we first propose a new null model and In our null model , the exthen present Dist Modularity . pected number of edges between vi and vj is defined as P Dist In this definition , we have a large freedom in specifying Ni and f ( d ) . Ni can be used for controlling the connectivity of vi . To ensure that our null model preserve the number of edges of the observed network , Ni should satisfy the normalization condition Pn i=1 Ni = 2m . Beyond this condition , we can specify Ni freely . For example , Ni can be the degree ki of vi , or a representative attribute of vi . f ( d ) can be used to control the magnitude of the SA effect in our null model . For example , 1 ) if we specify f ( d ) as a decreasing function , P Dist is negatively related to dij . Thus , nodes that are similar have a higher chance of getting connected — an evidence of the SA effect ; 2 ) if we specify f ( d ) = 1 , P Dist is not related to dij . Thus , the SA effect vanishes . ij ij ij
2m Pn i,j=1(Aij − P Dist
Based on the null model , we can define Dist Modularity as QDist = 1 ) δ(li , lj ) , where Aij is the number of edges between vi and vj in the observed network , li is the community membership of vi , and δ is the Kronecker ’s delta . Note that Dist Modularity is a unified measure , since we can specify Ni and f ( d ) freely and produce different QDist . In particular , with Ni = ki and f ( d ) = 1 , Dist Modularity reduces to NG Modularity . Besides , DistModularity has the following advantages :
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
• It applies to networks that contain nonstructural information . Note that dij is at the heart of the definition
191 σ = 0.1 d
σ = 0.5 d
σ = 1 d
σ = 5 d
σ = 10 d
Figure 2 : Extracting the multilevel communities along the σ axis .
( cid:1151)(cid:1151)(cid:1151 ) ( cid:1151)(cid:1151)(cid:1151 )
Time slot = 0
Time slot = 1
Time slot = 8
Time slot = 9
Figure 3 : Exploring the community evolution along the time slot . of Dist Modularity . In networks with nonstructural information , we can effectively use such information in the estimation of dij , and thus associate them with Dist Modularity .
• It is useful in extracting the multilevel communities . We can generate Dist Modularity by specifying f ( d ) = exp(−(d/σ)2 ) , where σ ∈ ( 0 , +∞ ) is a parameter . By tuning σ we can adjust the decreasing rate of the function and thus the magnitude of the SA effect . Meanwhile , optimizing Dist Modularity at different σ brings multilevel communities .
3 . EXPERIMENT
To demonstrate the advantages of Dist Modularity , we applied it to the antenna to antenna network of D4D dataset . This network is a spatial network where nodes and edges are embedded in space . It is based on records of mobile phone calls in Cote d’Ivoire . The nodes represent 1216 antennas which are associated with spatial coordinate information . The edges represent communications between antennas , with edge weight indicating the number of calls . Besides , this network is temporal : it has ten consecutive slices and each slice represents a two week period record .
In spatial networks there is always “ space effect ” , where long range edges ( ie , the spatial distance between the two ends of the edge is long ) are restricted due to cost . We are interested in the space independent communities . That is , our goal is to take out the space effect and extract the hidden communities that are not due to the space factor [ 1 ] . Consequently , NG Modularity fails to work , since it does not consider the spatial attribute of a node .
Note that the space effect is just our SA effect reflected in spatial networks : the two effects match when we estimate dij by the spatial distance between vi and vj . Thus we can simulate the space effect in the null model . Then , by comparing the observed network and the null model as the definition of Dist Modularity , we are able to take out the space effect of the observed network and achieve our goal .
In specific , we specified Ni = ki , f ( d ) = exp(−(d/σ)2 ) , estimated dij by the Euclidean distance of the coordinates of vi and vj , and employed Dist Modularity optimization algorithm to this network . As shown in Fig 1 , we can extract the multilevel communities along the σ axis , and explore the community evolution along the time slot . Suppose ¯d = Pn i,j=1 dij/n2 is the average distance of all node pairs . Fig 2 shows the community structure in one of the network slice when σ equals to 0.1 ¯d , 0.5 ¯d , 1 ¯d , 5 ¯d , and 10 ¯d , respectively . Fig 3 shows the community evolution at σ = 1 ¯d . From Fig 2 we can find that as σ increases , the community structure gradually correlates with the geography . In particular , the partition at σ = 1 ¯d matches the administrative subdivision of the country to a great extent . This example shows that Dist Modularity successfully uses the network structural and nonstructural information for extracting the multilevel communities while NG modularity fails .
4 . CONCLUSION
We create a null model that captures the SA feature of real world networks . Based on this null model we define Dist Modularity , a unified modularity measure that incorporates NG Modularity as a special case . Dist Modularity is useful in extracting the multilevel communities based on network structural and nonstructural information .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors are grateful to France Telecom Orange for providing the D4D dataset . This work was partly funded by CREST JST and by NSFC under grant No . 61203154 .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Expert , T . S . Evans , V . D . Blondel , and
R . Lambiotte . Uncovering space independent communities in spatial networks . Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA , 108(19):7663–7668 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] M . E . J . Newman and M . Girvan . Finding and evaluating community structure in networks . Phys . Rev . E , 69:026113 , 2004 .
192
