Power Dynamics in Spoken Interactions :
A Case Study on 2012 Republican Primary Debates
Vinodkumar Prabhakaran
Columbia University New York , NY , USA vinod@cscolumbiaedu
Ajita John Avaya Labs
Basking Ridge , NJ , USA ajita@avaya.com
Avaya Labs
Dorée D . Seligmann Basking Ridge , NJ , USA doree@avaya.com
ABSTRACT
In this paper , we explore how the power differential between participants of an interaction affects the way they interact in the context of political debates . We analyze the 2012 Republican presidential primary debates where we model the power index of each candidate in terms of their poll standings . We find that the candidates’ power indices affected the way they interacted with others in the debates as well as how others interacted with them .
Categories and Subject Descriptors significant correlations . To our knowledge , our work is the first to do an in depth computational analysis of the structure of interactions , modeling patterns of interruptions and mentions of participants , in relation to power as well as analyzing the linguistic , psychological , and topical dimensions of interactions . Also , the domain is interesting since the primary objective of the interactants is to pursue and maintain power over each other , as opposed to operating within a static power structure . Lastly , the findings are note worthy as they relate to the domain of political debates , an area which has not been well studied in this fashion before .
J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences
2 . POWER IN POLITICAL DEBATES
Keywords power ; relations ; political science ; social status ; debates
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recently , there has been a rapid increase in online social interactions and interactions from other media sources being stored in repositories such as YouTube . This has triggered great interest in computationally analyzing interactions to gain insights about people . In this area , there is work on finding how the power or status difference between participants is reflected in the various facets of interactions ( eg [ 3 , 4] ) . A computational system to analyze power differentials between participants in an interaction could have various practical applications . It could help improve effectiveness of advertisements within online communities , help in information retrieval systems in assessing relevance , and aid intelligence agencies to detect leaders and influencers in online communities . Most computational efforts to analyze power relations between participants of interactions have relied on static hierarchies as sources for the power differential [ 4 ] . However , many interactions ( eg online forums , political debates ) happen outside the context of a pre defined static power structure or hierarchy and have dynamic forms of power ; an area that is not well explored computationally . In this paper , we analyze political debates where the power differential is dynamic . Specifically , we analyze the 2012 Republican presidential primary debates , modeling power based on their poll standings . We analyze interactions in the structural , lexical , and topical dimensions and find various
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
We obtained transcripts of the 2012 Republican presidential primary debates held between May 2011 and February 2012.1 These debates serve as a platform for candidates to discuss policy stances as well as to pursue and maintain power over other candidates . Interactions in these debates are fairly well structured and follow a pattern of the moderator asking questions and candidates responding , with some interruptions from other candidates . There were 20 debates , each 90 120 minutes ( around 20K words spoken ) long . There were 10 candidates , seven of whom were among the top 3 candidates for at least three debates . We model the power with which a candidate X comes into the debate ( Power Index , P(X ) ) based on their recent state or national poll standings.2 3 Other factors ( funds raised , endorsements etc . ) can also be factored in . Debates from December 2011 onwards were held in states where the primaries were to be held in the near future . For those debates , we chose the respective state ’s poll scores as the reference , since we believe that state polls would be the focus at that time . For others , we chose the national polls . For each debate , we find the poll results released most recently and use the percentage of electorate supporting a candidate as his/her P(X ) . If multiple polls were released most recently , then we take the mean of all poll scores to find the P(X ) .
3 . MANIFESTATIONS OF POWER
We analyze the manifestations of power in three dimensions of the debates : structural , lexical , and topical . Fig
1http://wwwpresidencyucsbedu/debatesphp 2http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Statewide opinion polling for the Republican Party presidential primaries , 2012 3http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Nationwide opinion polling for the Republican Party 2012 presidential primaries
99 ure 1 shows the Pearson ’s product correlation of each feature with the candidate ’s power index P ( X ) .
( a ) Structural Analysis 1
( b ) Structural Analysis 2
( c ) Lexical Analysis 1
( d ) Lexical Analysis 2
( e ) Topical Analysis 1
( f ) Topical Analysis 2
Figure 1 : Pearson Product Correlation . Dark bars denote statistically significant features ( p < 0.05 )
Structure : We analyze how much the candidates spoke , how they interrupted each other and how they were talked about . To capture how much they spoke , we use the % of turns , words , and questions asked to them ( TP , WP , QP ) and the deviations of these measures from an equal distribution ( TD , WD , QD ) . We also use longest turn length ( LT ) , words per turn ( WT ) and words per sentence ( WS ) . To capture interruption patterns , we use how often they interrupted others ( IO ) and how often others interrupted them ( OI ) as well as their per turn normalized values ( IOT , OIT ) . To capture how often they were talked about , we use raw mention counts as well as a % of total mentions ( MC , MP ) . We also use the distribution of each candidate ’s mentions in terms of the form of address : first name , last name , first & last name , title and name ( FNP , LNP , FLNP , TNP ) . We obtained significant moderate to high positive correlation for the word and turn features with P ( X ) ( Fig 1(a) ) . Questions posed to the candidate also obtained a moderate positive correlation which suggests that the candidates with higher P ( X ) were asked significantly more questions by the moderators . We also find that the candidates with higher P ( X ) were interrupted more ( Fig 1(b) ) . They were also mentioned more often by others , but the form of address did not matter . Lexical : We use the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count ( LIWC ) tool [ 2 ] to analyze the use of language in two dimensions : linguistic and psychological . In Fig 1(c ) , we show that the candidates with higher P ( X ) use significantly more verbs ( VRB ) , especially in the past tense form ( VBP ) , than others . Another interesting observation is the first person ( 1P ) pronoun usage : individuals with more power used more singular 1Ps ( i , me , mine ) , while those with less power used more plural 1Ps ( we , our and us ) . In Fig 1(d ) , we show 6 psychological dimensions which had significant correlations with P ( X ) . The correlations obtained in the lexical analysis are rather weak overall . However , the fact that many categories had statistically significant correlations with P ( X ) suggests that these categories could help a system trying predict or rank candidates based on power indices . Topical : We use a Latent Dirichlet Allocation based topic modeler [ 1 ] to find the topics in the turns ( #topics : 15 ) . The extracted manually labeled topics are : Space , Afghanistan , US , Energy , Election , Immigration , Budget , Banks , Conservative , Judiciary , Healthcare , Middle East , Monetary policy , Economy and Education . We calculated two sets of measures for each candidate : T P1(t ) = % of candidate ’s turns on topic t ; T P2(t ) = % of turns on topic t by candidate across all turns on topic t ( across all candidates ) . For the values of T P1(t ) , we obtain significant positive correlations for 10 topics ( Fig 1(e) ) . The numbers are biased by the fact that candidates with higher P ( X ) talked more than others . For the values of T P2(t ) , we still find high to weak correlations for some topics ( Fig 1(f) ) ; candidates with higher P ( X ) talked significantly more about some topics ( 14:Economy ) and less about some others ( 3:Energy and 4:Election ) . These correlations in topic distributions are artifacts of the dominant issues in the 2012 US presidential election .
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper , we studied the manifestations of power differentials between candidates in the 2012 Republican presidential primary debates , modeling the candidates’ power after their recent poll scores . We analyzed the debates in structural , lexical and topical dimensions . We found that the candidates’ power affected how they interacted in the debates — how much and what they spoke ( topical ) , and how they spoke about it ( linguistic ) . We also found that power affected the way others interacted with them — how many questions they were asked , how often they were interrupted and how often they were talked about . As future work , we plan to implement a power ranker system using these insights .
5 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] A . K . McCallum . Mallet : A machine learning for language toolkit . http://malletcsumassedu , 2002 . [ 2 ] J . W . Pennebaker , M . E . Francis , and R . J . Booth .
Linguistic inquiry and word count : Liwc 2001 . Mahway : Lawrence Erlbaum Associates , 2001 .
[ 3 ] V . Prabhakaran , O . Rambow , and M . Diab . Who ’s ( really ) the boss ? perception of situational power in written interactions . In 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics ( COLING ) , Mumbai , India , 2012 . Association for Computational Linguistics .
[ 4 ] R . Rowe , G . Creamer , S . Hershkop , and S . Stolfo .
Automated social hierarchy detection through email network analysis . In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and social network analysis , pages 109–117 . ACM , 2007 .
100
