Examining Lists on Twitter to Uncover Relationships between Following , Membership and Subscription Srikar Velichety
Sudha Ram srikarv@emailarizonaedu ram@ellerarizonaedu
University of Arizona , Tucson
Department of MIS ,
Eller College of Management
ABSTRACT We report on an exploratory analysis of pairwise relationships between three different forms of information consumption on Twitter viz . , following , listing and subscribing . We develop a systematic framework to examine the relationships between these three forms . Using our framework , we conducted an empirical analysis of a dataset from Twitter . Our results show that people not only consume information by explicitly following others , but also by listing and subscribing to lists and that the people they list or subscribe to are not the same as the ones they follow . Our work has implications for understanding information propagation and diffusion via Twitter and for generating recommendations for adding users to lists , subscribing and merging or splitting them . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data Mining ; G.3 [ Probability and Statistics ] : Correlation and Regression Analysis ; H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous Keywords Twitter , Lists , Subscription , Membership , Descriptive Modeling . 1 . INTRODUCTION Twitter is one of the most popular microblogging platforms in the world used by individuals and organizations . Using text restricted to 140 characters , individuals share information about their about various interests [ 7 ] , or express preferences for brands [ 6 ] . Organizations such as news agencies , government and private companies use Twitter to disseminate information[2 ] . Twitter has been used successfully to track flu trends [ 3 ] , and to gauge people ’s sentiments and moods [ 4 ] . In 2009 , Twitter introduced a feature called Lists that allows users to group other users and follow their tweets . A user on Twitter can consume information produced by others in three ways viz . , by directly following , by creating a list and adding them or by subscribing to a public list created by someone else . A user may add someone to his list without explicitly following him . Similarly , he can subscribe to a list without explicitly following or including any of the members into his own list . Any combination of following , listing and subscribing is also possible . While there is preliminary research on the use of lists to infer latent user characteristics [ 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 ] , surprisingly there is little research so far on how these three forms of information consumption are related to each other . An examination of lists will not only help us understand information consumption in a better way , but can also provide insights into user behavior and Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . microblogging usage in general . In earlier work we used a network analysis approach to examine Twitter lists with a view toward developing a list recommendation system [ 13 ] . In this research , we follow up by developing a framework to understand the relationships among membership , subscription and following on Twitter . The rest of the paper is organized as follows . In section 2 we provide a short review of current research on Twitter lists to create an appropriate context for our work . In section 3 we describe a framework used for analyzing the relationships between different forms of information consumption at a specific point in time . In section 4 we provide a description of the dataset used for an empirical analysis and discuss some preliminary results . In section 5 we conclude with a description of our ongoing work . 2 . SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS WORK When a user creates a list and adds users to it , he/she is able follow the tweets of the list members by going to the list . While creating a list , the user may provide a short 100 character – description of the list . This is many cases indicates the interests of the list creator ( hereafter known as curator ) and those of the members of that list . [ 9 ] developed a framework , using this information , for identifying latent user characteristics . Their results showed that user interests and characteristics along with their popular perceptions on Twitter can be identified using the information on the lists to which they belong . [ 5 ] developed a system for identifying topic experts on Twitter using information on lists to which they belong . [ 8 ] leveraged the interactions of a user along with his/her list information to identify interests . [ 11 ] showed that methods that use list based information outperform those that use tweet based information , for identifying user interests . [ 12 ] examined patterns of closures in lists . While all this research looks at lists as a potential source for identifying user interests and characteristics , and examining homophily , very little is known about the relationships between following , listing and subscribing , which the focus of our work is . 3 . A FRAMEWORK FOR EXAMINING LISTS In this section we develop a systematic framework to understand pairwise and Subscribing . n(X ) represents the cardinality of the set X , and C , L , F & S represent Curator , Listed , Following and Subscribed , respectively in the names of the metrics we define . For example CF Ratio means Curator Following Ratio . First , to examine the relationship between following and listing , we can divide the universe of Twitter users into 4 disjoint sets from the perspective of a specific Twitter user ( Figure 1 ) . relationships between Following , Listing
673
Followed
Listed
No
Yes
No
W
Y
Yes
X
Z
Figure 1 . Relationship between Listing and Following
Here W , X , Y , Z represent the corresponding sets and n ( W ) , n(X ) , n(Y ) and n ( Z ) their respective cardinalities . For any curator i , W will be the have the highest cardinality . We can define three metrics to examine the relationship between listing and following .
Thus , CF Ratio is the fraction of people a curator is following out of all the people that she has listed across one or more of her public lists . On the other hand , CM Ratio is the fraction of people that a curator has listed at least once ( across all his public lists ) out of all the people that she is explicitly following . Finally , the MF Ratio is a measure that compares the relative strength in numbers of those who are only listed to those who are only followed . To examine the relationships between subscribing and following , we similarly identify 4 disjoint sets in the universe of Twitter users ( Figure 2 ) .
Followed
Subscribed
No
Yes
No
A
C
Yes
B
D
Figure 2 . Relationship between Subscribing and Following
*Subscribed in this case indicates that they belong to the lists to which the curator has subscribed . Similar to the metrics defined in the previous case , we define the following ratios
These three metrics together define the relationship between following explicitly and following by subscribing to a list . 4 . DATASET AND ANALYSES A dataset for analysis was collected during December 2012 . We identified a random sample of 100 Twitter curators –and collected the set of users they are following , the members of the lists they have created and members of the lists to which they have subscribed . The initial data about lists and their members was collected from listoriouscom We used the Tweepy module in python to collect the membership and following data . All together our dataset has 1183 lists that were curated and 984 unique lists to which there were subscriptions . The CF Ratio had an average value of 0.43 with a median of 0.42 ( σ = 0.28 ) meaning users on an average follow only 43 % of the people they list . The CM Ratio had an average value of 0.28 ( σ = 0.23 ) with a median of 0.21 meaning users list a mere 28 % of the people they follow . However the fact that the standard deviations were substantial indicates that there is a large user specific heterogeneity . We also found that the MF Ratio had an average of 58.46 ( σ = 501.26 ) with a median of 0.27 meaning for some users listing is the primary form of information consumption while for others it is following explicitly . Together these results point out that members in a curators list are not the ones they follow and vice versa . The average CS ratio was 0.11 ( σ=0.13 ) with a median of 0.06 indicating that curators follow a meager 11 % of the members in the lists they subscribe to . A paired t test on the CF and CS Ratios for these users indicated that ( t value =11.73 , p<0.001 ) the CF Ratio was significantly higher meaning curators follow a greater fraction of the people they list than members of the lists to which they subscribe . Further , the average CFS ratio was 0.09 ( σ=0.10 ) with a median of 0.05 indicating that a mere 9 % of the people that a curator follows are also members in the lists to which they subscribed . We also found significant differences between the CM and CFS Ratios ( t value=7.9 , p<0.001 ) meaning that out of all the people that a user follows , a greater fraction are members of the lists they have created than the lists to which they have subscribed . These two ratios provide evidence for the fact that the people users follow are substantially different from the members of the lists they subscribe to . Finally the fact that the SF Ratio had a mean of 5.03 ( σ = 25.2 ) with a median of 0.54 shows that some users prefer to consume information primarily through following while others through subscribing . 5 . CONCLUSION IMPLICATIONS AND ONGOING WORK We have investigated relationships between three forms of information consumption on Twitter viz . , following , listing and subscribing by developing a systematic framework and defining specific measures for pairwise analysis . Our results show that these forms of information consumption are significantly different from each other . We also show that Twitter users follow a greater fraction of the people they list than the people in the lists to which they subscribe . Similarly , users list a greater fraction of the people they follow as compared to the fraction of the users in the lists to which they subscribe . Finally we show that there is considerable user specific heterogeneity in terms of preference for each form of information consumption . Our framework has implications for developing improved models of information propagation and diffusion on Twitter . Most current models consider following as the only form of information consumption[1 , 10].It also has implications for list recommendations ie for adding members to lists , subscriptions to lists , follower recommendations , and for merging/splitting of lists . While our research points to interesting results about forms of information consumption , we are continuing extend it in several directions . First , this paper reports on an analysis of a sample of 100 Twitter list curators and it is primarily a static analysis . In our ongoing work we are collecting and analyzing a larger sample to provide stronger evidence for the results of this research . Second ,
674 our work examines the relationship between 3 forms of information consumption at a specific point in time . There may be a temporal relationship between these forms . For example , it is possible that a user follows someone first and then decides to list him or vice versa . In our ongoing work we are building a framework for temporal analysis of such relationships while leveraging our static framework . Finally , based on the fact that some curators primarily prefer one form of information consumption over others , it would be interesting to see how these patterns are manifested in the tweeting activity . Our ongoing work is to examine the differences between tweeting , retweeting and mentioning behaviors of these users . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Achananuparp , P . , Lim , EP , Jiang , J . and Hoang , TA 2012 . Who is Retweeting the Tweeters ? Modeling , Originating , and Promoting Behaviors in the Twitter Network . ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems ( TMIS ) . 3 , 3 ( 2012 ) .
[ 2 ] Bhattacharya , D . and Ram , S . 2012 . Sharing News Articles
Using 140 Characters : A Diffusion Analysis on Twitter . Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining ( ASONAM ) , 2012 IEEE/ACM International Conference on ( 2012 ) , 966–971 .
[ 3 ] Culotta , A . 2010 . Towards detecting influenza epidemics by analyzing Twitter messages . Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media Analytics ( 2010 ) , 115–122 .
[ 4 ] Diakopoulos , NA and Shamma , DA 2010 . Characterizing debate performance via aggregated twitter sentiment . Proceedings of the 28th international conference on Human factors in computing systems ( 2010 ) , 1195–1198 .
[ 5 ] Ghosh , S . , Sharma , N . , Benevenuto , F . , Ganguly , N . and
Gummadi , K . 2012 . Cognos : crowdsourcing search for topic experts in microblogs . Proceedings of the 35th international
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval ( 2012 ) , 575–590 .
[ 6 ] Jansen , BJ , Zhang , M . , Sobel , K . and Chowdury , A . 2009 .
Twitter power : Tweets as electronic word of mouth . Journal of the American society for information science and technology . 60 , 11 ( 2009 ) , 2169–2188 .
[ 7 ] Java , A . , Song , X . , Finin , T . and Tseng , B . 2007 . Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and social network analysis ( 2007 ) , 56–65 .
[ 8 ] Pochampally , R . and Varma , V . 2011 . User context as a source of topic retrieval in Twitter . Workshop on Enriching Information Retrieval ( with ACM SIGIR ) ( 2011 ) .
[ 9 ] Sharma , NK , Ghosh , S . , Benevenuto , F . , Ganguly , N . and
Gummadi , K . 2012 . Inferring who is who in the Twitter social network . ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review . 42 , 4 ( 2012 ) , 533–538 .
[ 10 ] Shi , Z . , Rui , H . and Whinston , A . 2011 . Content Sharing in a
Social Broadcasting Environment : Evidences from Twitter . Working Paper , University of Texas at Austin .
[ 11 ] Yamaguchi , Y . , Amagasa , T . and Kitagawa , H . 2011 . Tagbased user topic discovery using twitter lists . Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining ( ASONAM ) , 2011 International Conference on ( 2011 ) , 13–20 .
[ 12 ] Zhao , J . and Ram , S . 2011 . Examining the evolution of networks based on lists in twitter . Internet Multimedia Systems Architecture and Application ( IMSAA ) , 2011 IEEE 5th International Conference on ( 2011 ) , 1–8 .
[ 13 ] Velichety , S . and Ram , S . 2013 . The Science of Twitter Lists :
Understanding Membership and Subscription through Network Analysis , Working Paper , University of Arizona .
675
