Regional Analysis of User Interactions on Social Media in
Times of Disaster
Takeshi Sakaki
The University of Tokyo sakaki@weblabtu tokyoacjp
Fujio Toriumi
The University of Tokyo tori@systu tokyoacjp
Kosuke Shinoda
Riken kosukeshinoda@rikenjp
Kazuhiro Kazama Wakayama University kazama@sys.wakayama uacjp
Itsuki Noda
National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and
Technology
INoda@aistgojp
Satoshi Kurihara Osaka University kurihara@ist.osaka uacjp
Yutaka Matsuo
The University of Tokyo matsuo@weblabtu tokyoacjp
ABSTRACT Social media attract attention for sharing information , especially Twitter , which is now being used in times of disasters . In this paper , we perform regional analysis of user interactions on Twittter during the Great East Japan Earthquake and arrived at the following two conclusions:People diffused much more information after the earthquake , especially in the heavily damaged areas ; People communicated with nearby users but diffused information posted by distant users . We conclude that social media users changed their behavior to widely diffuse information .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences
General Terms Human Factors , Measurement
Keywords Twitter , online social network , information diffusion , disaster situation , earthquake,regional analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
During a disaster , collecting information is important to save lives . Victims require information about shelters or especially dangerous points . Furthermore , rescuers require information such as victim locations or the availability of supplies .
Social media attract attention for their information sharing capabilities , especially Twitter , which is one hugely popular social medium that is used during disasters [ 1],[2 ] . By
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 . analyzing interaction behaviors on Twitter , we can estimate how people use social media during crises .
In the previous research , we revealed that the use of Twitter was different from area to area[3 ] . In this paper , we focus on regional differences in user interactions of Twitter during the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred at 14:46 on March 11 , 2011 .
We prepared a dataset of tweets by crawling those posted by 1:3 million Japanese Twitter users from March 7 to March 23 . We collected 362 ; 435 ; 649 tweets , which were posted by 2 ; 711 ; 473 users .
2 . REGIONAL ANALYSIS OF USER INTER
ACTIONS
In case of the Great East Japan Earthquake , the degree of damage caused by it varied depending on the area . We assume that the variety affected the user interaction on Twitter . Therefore , we performed a regional analysis of user interactions on it around the earthquake .
First , we extracted location information of Twitter user and selected target areas for analysis . Second , we analyzed the changes in the number of replies and retweets . Third , we compared them based on the distance between the users making interactions . 2.1 Regional Information on Twitter
We estimated user locations from their Twitter profiles and analyzed the user interactions by prefecture based on it . However , showing all analysis results is difficult due to space limitations . We chose five representative prefectures based on the degree of damage(Table 1 ) .
We compared the following two types of user interaction : ffl Reply : messages for a specific user . We treat a reply as communication interaction . ffl Retweet : messages to diffuse a tweet to followers . We treat a retweet as diffusion interaction .
235 ( a ) Replies by selected prefectures
( b ) Retweets by selected prefectures
Figure 1 : Replies and retweets by selected prefecture
2.2 Comparison of Number of User Interac tion
Figure 1 represents the ratios of the reply and retweet counts posted by users who apparently live in different prefectures . We used all the replies and retweets posted on March 7 for normalization .
First , there was little change in the reply graphs of all the prefectures thorough the analysis period compared to those of the retweets , which maintained higher levels at the end of the analysis period than at the beginning . People diffused more information on Twitter than before the earthquake .
Second , the characteristics of the retweet graphs differ depending on the area . Shortly after the earthquake , in the less damaged areas and Fukushima , the retweet ratio increased determinately ; in the heavily damaged areas , the retweet ratio only slightly increased . One week after the earthquake , the retweet ratio in the heavily damaged areas maintained higher levels . After a nuclear accident got worse , the retweet ratio in Fukushima increased much more .
2.3 Comparison of User Interaction by Dis tance
Next , we compared two types of user interactions by their distance in the real world with interaction distance , which we define as the following distance between two users who
Table 1 : Prefecture circumstances
Damage
Population
Others
Prefecture Iwate Miyagi Fukushima catastrophic catastrophic small small heavy medium nuclear power plant destruction
Tokyo Osaka light very large large
Figure 2 : Interaction distance of reply and retweets perform one user interaction : dij = distance ( useri ; userj )
We used the location information of prefectural government offices for the user location information for simplicity . For example , useri is in Tokyo and userj is in Osaka ; useri posted the tweet : @userj Are you all right ? , dij is the distance between the Tokyo and Osaka government offices . If dij is smaller , it is likely that useri and userj know each other , and vice versa .
We used d for one day to compare replies and retweets . Fig 2 represents the changes in their d , which have similar levels : about 260 km before the earthquake . However , they have clearly different characteristics . dreplies decreased after the earthquake and maintained lower levels for several days . But shortly after the earthquake , dretweets maintained higher levels during post quake chaos week .
3 . CONCLUSION
We analyzed 360 million tweets that were posted before and after the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11th 2011 to elucidate how people interact on Twitter during disasters . We arrived at the following conclusions :
1 . People diffused much more information after the earth quake , especially in the heavily damaged areas .
2 . People communicated with nearby users but diffused information posted by distant users
.
From our results , we conclude that social media users changed their behavior and reasons to autonomously use social media after serious events . In the future , we must observe and analyze the changes in social media to ascertain how such disasters affect social media over long periods . 4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We also thank Miscrosoft Research Asia for providing necessary financial assitance , and Genta Kaneyama ( Cookpad Inc . ) for assistance in collecting data from Twitter .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Heverin and L . Zach . Microblogging for Crisis Communication : Examination of Twitter Use in Response to a 2009 Violent Crisis in Seattle Tacoma , Washington Area . In Proceedings of ISCRAM 2010 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] M . Miyabe , E . Aramaki , and A . Miura . Use trend analysis of twitter after the great east japan earthquake . In Proceedings of SIG DPS/GN 2011 DPS 148/2011 GN 81/2011 EIP 53 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] T . Sakaki , F . Toriumi , and Y . Matsuo . Tweet trend analysis in an emergency situation . In Proceedings of SWID’11 , pages 3:1{3:8 . ACM , 2011 .
236
