MediaFinder : Collect , Enrich and Visualize
Media Memes Shared by the Crowd
Raphaël Troncy , Vuk Milicic , Giuseppe Rizzo and José Luis Redondo García
EURECOM Biot , France raphaeltroncy@eurecomfr
ABSTRACT Social networks play an increasingly important role for sharing media items related to human ’s activities , feelings , emotions and conversations opening a window to the world in real time . However , these images and videos are spread over multiple social networks . In this paper , we first describe a so called media server that collect recent images and videos which can be potentially attached to an event . These media items can then be used for the automatic generation of visual summaries . However , making sense out of the resulting media galleries is an extremely challenging task . We present a framework that leverages on : ( i ) visual features from media items for near deduplication and ( ii ) textual features from status updates to enrich , cluster and generate storyboards . A prototype is publicly available at http://mediafindereurecomfr
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Systems ] : Retrieval—World Wide Web
Information Storage and
Keywords Topic Generation , Storyboard Identification , Visual Summarization , Storytelling , Social Media
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Capturing social media memes and building narratives is the objectives of several research projects and commercial products . For example , the TransMedia Observatory1 has developed a system that collects and analyzes the most circulated images across the main news media ( news web sites , press agencies , radio and TV news and newspapers ) in order to detect events [ 1 ] . Storify2 aims to support the creation of stories about events using social networks by sorting and organizing the elements of a story and by guiding the user towards an intended experience . Generating stories from social media streams is also the objective of Storyful3 . While these two approaches position the role of a social platform as a container of fresh and breaking news items , they are
1http://wwwotmediafr/ 2http://storify.com 3http://storyful.com leveraging on user interactions for creating stories as a supervised task . Mahaya4 has recently showcase a story about the 12/12/12 concert5 : the different spikes of the concert correspond to the artists performance and are guiding the narrative , while images shared on Instagram and microposts collected on Twitter are used to illustrate the story . In this paper , we tackle the challenge of reconciling social media items that could illustrate not only events but anything trending within a social network . We then propose visual summaries of these events , applying post processing techniques such as image deduplication in media galleries and named entity recognition techniques for organizing the processed media items .
2 . MEDIA SERVER
Twitter and its ecosystem ( TwitPic , TwitterNative , MobyP icture , Lockerz or yfrog ) , GooglePlus and YouTube , Facebook and Instagram , Flickr and FlickrVideos , MySpace have all in common to offer search APIs over the content they host . Those search functions , however , provide results that vary according to the time the query has been triggered , covering a window of time that ranges from only the recent past to many years ago . In addition , they offer different parameters that enable to customize search queries ( eg filtering by location ) . MediaServer is composed of media item extractors for these 12 media sharing platforms . It takes as input a search term and a parallel key search is then performed to these social networks . Each platform has a 30 second timeout window to deliver its results . When the timeout has expired , or when all social networks have responded , a unified output is delivered [ 3 , 5 ] .
The metadata attached to the microposts retrieved vary in terms of schemas , data types and serialization formats . We harmonize these results and project them to a common schema . This component performs also a cleansing process , discarding items which are older than seven days ago , in order to keep only fresh media items . MediaServer provides not only a way to capture a snapshot at a particular instant of what has been shared in social media platforms , but enables also to monitor the results of a search query over a longer period of time , by automatically re issuing the same query at a regular frequency and by cumulating the results [ 2 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2013 Companion , May 13–17 , 2013 , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . ACM 978 1 4503 2038 2/13/05 .
4http://mahaya.co 5http://121212mahayaco
789 Figure 1 : a ) Graph View of the named entity based clustering operation on the collected items . b ) Visual summary of the cluster “ Beyonce ” : the introduction is fetched through disambiguating the selected topic on DBpedia and it is followed by the storyfication of microposts and media items .
3 . MEDIA FINDER
MediaFinder aims to automatically generate visual summaries using the results of MediaServer . This framework is composed of the following components :
• Near de duplication detection : The same media item can occur in multiple microposts , typically when a retweet or re share operations is performed . State of the art techniques in content based image retrieval are used to detect near duplicate images .
• Named Entity Extraction : For each micropost , we extract named entities using the NERD framework [ 4 ] . A multi lingual entity extraction is performed and the entities extracted are typed using the NERD Ontology6 .
• Topic Generation : We identify topics using four clustering operations using the textual features of the microposts ( LDA , named entities , etc )
Once the clustering operations are completed , the entity which best represents a set is selected . We call this process topic generation . For each cluster , a Bag of Entities ( BOE ) is computed and the most representative entity is selected to be the cluster topic . We disambiguate this topic using a DBpedia URI7 . Consequently , the output of this component is a set of clusters ( limited to ten for visualization optimization ) that corresponds to topics extracted from the data collected . The visualization emphasizes the different aspects of storyboards . The graph view shows the relationships between microposts and topics , while the timeline view emphasizes the time dimension . The user can watch and interact with the summarized view of all the topics or select a particular one with the additional details . In addition , the states of different views are persistent through the URLs which makes
6http://nerdeurecomfr/ontology/nerd v05n3 7http://dbpedia.org easy sharing possible . Figure 1 illustrates MediaFinder with the 2013 Superbowl event . One of the cluster ( labeled as “ Beyonc´e ” ) brings the attention of the user . By simply clicking on the cluster , an illustrative storyboard is depicted mixing microposts and social media shared by the crowd .
Acknowledgments This work was partially supported by the European Union ’s 7th Framework Programme via the projects LinkedTV ( GA 287911 ) .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Joly , J . Champ , P . Letessier , N . Herv´e , O . Buisson , and M . Viaud . Visual Based Transmedia Events Detection . In 20th ACM international conference on Multimedia ( MM’12 ) , Nara , Japan , 2012 .
[ 2 ] V . Milicic , J . L . Redondo Garc´ıa , G . Rizzo , and
R . Troncy . Tracking and Analyzing The 2013 Italian Election . In 10th Extended Semantic Web Conference ( ESWC’13 ) , Demo Session , Montpellier , France , 2013 .
[ 3 ] G . Rizzo , T . Steiner , R . Troncy , R . Verborgh , J . L . Redondo Garc´ıa , and R . V . de Walle . What Fresh Media Are You Looking For ? Retrieving Media Items from Multiple Social Networks . In International Workshop on Socially aware multimedia ( SAM’12 ) , Nara , Japan , 2012 .
[ 4 ] G . Rizzo and R . Troncy . NERD : A Framework for
Unifying Named Entity Recognition and Disambiguation Extraction Tools . In 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( EACL’12 ) , Avignon , France , 2012 .
[ 5 ] T . Steiner . A Meteoroid on Steroids : Ranking Media
Items Stemming from Multiple Social Networks . In 22nd World Wide Web Conference ( WWW’13 ) , Demo Session , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , 2013 .
790
