Topic Factorized Ideal Point Estimation Model for
Legislative Voting Network∗
Yupeng Gu
Northeastern University ypgu@ccsneuedu
Boston , MA
Yizhou Sun
Northeastern University yzsun@ccsneuedu
Boston , MA
Ning Jiang
University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign
Urbana , IL jiang20@illinois.edu
Bingyu Wang
Northeastern University
Boston , MA wangbin@huskyneuedu tingchen@ccsneuedu
Ting Chen
Northeastern University
Boston , MA
ABSTRACT Ideal point estimation that estimates legislators’ ideological positions and understands their voting behavior has attracted studies from political science and computer science . Typically , a legislator is assigned a global ideal point based on her voting or other social behavior . However , it is quite normal that people may have different positions on different policy dimensions . For example , some people may be more liberal on economic issues while more conservative on cultural issues .
In this paper , we propose a novel topic factorized ideal point estimation model for a legislative voting network in a unified framework . First , we model the ideal points of legislators and bills for each topic instead of assigning them to a global one . Second , the generation of topics are guided by the voting matrix in addition to the text information contained in bills . A unified model that combines voting behavior modeling and topic modeling is presented , and an iterative learning algorithm is proposed to learn the topics of bills as well as the topic factorized ideal points of legislators and bills . By comparing with the state of the art ideal point estimation models , our method has a much better explanation power in terms of held out log likelihood and other measures . Besides , case studies show that the topic factorized ideal points coincide with human intuition . Finally , we illustrate how to use these topic factorized ideal points to predict voting results for unseen bills .
Keywords Ideal point estimation , legislative voting network , topic model , voting prediction
∗The work was supported in part by the Yahoo ACE ( Academic Career Enhancement ) Award funding . The views and conclusions contained in this paper are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing any funding agencies .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Estimating voters’ ideological positions is an important task , which can help us understand and predict their voting or other social behavior . For example , once we know a voter is more conservative , we can expect she is more likely to vote for republican candidates or vote against the bills that are very liberal . Ideal point estimation that estimates legislators’ ideological positions has attracted studies from political science [ 4 , 5 , 8 , 19 ] and computer science [ 6 , 7 ] , thanks to the widely available online voting records and other social behavior embedded in networks .
Figure 1 : Illustration of standard one dimensional ideal point model for sample Democrats ( blue ) and Republicans ( red ) . B . Obama and R . Paul are highlighted .
In standard one dimensional ideal point estimation models , a legislator is usually assigned a global ideal point based on her legislative voting records [ 4 ] . For example , in Fig 1 we can see the ideal points of B . Obama and R . Paul according to their voting records when they were senator and house representative , respectively . From the figure , it is quite clear that Obama is liberal and Paul is conservative . The figure can also help to explain why Obama garnered support from some moderate republicans and conservatives during the 2008 election , and why Paul is regarded as one of the most conservative republicans in congress .
However , one dimensional ideal point could be rather coarse to capture the whole picture of ideology , as it is quite normal that people may have different positions on different policy dimensions . For example , some people may be more liberal on economic issues while more conservative on cultural issues . From Fig 2 we can see that the ideal points of Obama and Paul are rather different across a wide range of topics . In particular , the figure confirms the notion that Paul is the most conservative on the role of government on economy but not on social issues and foreign policy matters , especially as an opponent of war . Our goal of this paper is to estimate the ideal points of US House representatives and Senators in different topics , based on the roll call voting data from the 101st congress until now .
Figure 2 : Illustration of topic factorized ideal point model for sample Democrats ( blue ) and Republicans ( red ) . B . Obama and R . Paul are highlighted .
A recent study [ 7 ] has shown that by incorporating the separately predetermined topic information of bills and modeling issueadjusted ideal point for voters , the model has a much higher explanation power of the voting behavior . However , in this study , the topics are learned in advance , topic modeling and voting behavior modeling are two separate steps ; and there is only a relative ideal point score in each topic . In this paper , we propose a novel topicfactorized ideal point estimation model by utilizing the legislative voting network data that contains ( 1 ) voting records between voters and bills , and ( 2 ) text information of the bills . The key idea is , on one hand , using topic and text information from the topic model can help enhance the voting link modeling ; on the other hand , using voting data can help us gain a better understanding about the latent topics , therefore build a better latent topic distribution over text . Our approach enhances the issue adjusted ideal point model in two folds . First , we model the ideal point of voters and bills for each topic such that they can be comparable in different topic dimensions . Second , the generation of topics are guided by the voting matrix in addition to the text information in bills . A unified probabilistic model that combines voting behavior modeling and topic modeling is proposed . An iterative learning algorithm is proposed to learn the topics as well as the topic factorized ideal points alternatively .
By comparing with the state of the art ideal point models , our method has a much better explanation power in terms of held out predictive accuracy . Besides , case studies show that the topicfactorized ideal points coincide with human intuition . Finally , we illustrate how to use these topic factorized ideal points to make voting predictions for unseen bills .
The main contributions of our method can be summarized below . • We propose a novel topic factorized ideal point model based on text rich legislative voting network , which simultaneously identifies the topics as well as the ideal points of voters and bills in a wide range of topics .
The rest of this paper is organized as follows . In Section 2 we introduce the preliminaries and define the problem . In Section 3 we discuss our model in detail and introduce the learning algorithm . In Section 4 we show the experimental results . We summarize the related work in Section 5 and draw a conclusion of the paper in Section 6 .
2 . PRELIMINARY AND PROBLEM DEFI
NITION
In this section , we introduce the legislative voting network in our problem setting , the preliminary related to ideal point model ( IPM ) , and define our problem formally . 2.1 Legislative Voting Network
A text rich legislative voting network can be extracted from roll call voting data , which is comprised of three different types of objects : voters , bills , and words . Voters ( u ) and bills(d ) are linked together according to the voting behavior , and the weight of links ( vud ) is either 1 ( “ YEA ” ) or −1 ( “ NAY ” ) . Bills and words are linked together if the word appears in the bill , and the weight is determined by the number of occurrences of the word . An example of such legislative voting network that is extracted from US roll call voting data is shown in Fig 3 . It is worth noting that the value of vud between user u and bill d can also be 0 , which means the link between u and d is missing . We do not model missing links in this paper .
• An efficient algorithm is proposed to learn the model , which alternatively updates the topic distribution of each bill and ideal points for each voter and bill .
• The experiments are preformed on real world US legislative roll call data . The results show that our model is superior to the state of the art methods in several aspects .
Figure 3 : An illustration of legislative voting network .
2.2
Ideal Point Models
The goal of ideal point model is to estimate the policy positions of voters and bills that can explain the voting or other social behavior . Poole and Rosenthal [ 17 ] proposed a seminal onedimensional ideal point model for understanding legislative behavior . In [ 19 ] , Poole and Rosenthal studied a similar model in a higher dimensional setting . Alternative higher dimensional ideal point models have been developed by Clinton et al . [ 4 ] , Heckman and Snyder [ 8 ] , and Londregan [ 12 ] . We first briefly introduce onedimensional and higher dimensional ideal point models , then the closely related issue adjusted ideal point model by Blei and Gerrish [ 7 ] that utilized text information in bills to make topics as explicit dimensions .
One dimensional ideal point model .
In one dimensional ideal point model , each legislator u is associated with an ideal point xu , which represents her position . Each bill d has a polarity ad and a popularity offset bd as well . The probability of voting “ YEA" is given by p(vud = 1 ) = σ(xu · ad + bd ) , where σ denotes the logistic or probit function . All the parameters are estimated by maximizing the likelihood of observing the voting matrix under this model .
Higher dimensional ideal point model .
Due to the limitation that one dimensional ideal point cannot capture the different behavior of legislators for different topics , some researches extend the above model to higher dimensions . For example , Clinton et al . [ 4 ] proposed to map each voter and bill into a K dimensional space , and model the probability of a voter voting “ YEA ” for a bill with the probability σ(xu · ad + bd ) , where xu and ad are in the space of RK and “ · ” denotes dot product .
Issue adjusted ideal point model .
The latent space derived in the higher dimensional ideal point model , however , is very difficult to interpret . Thus , an issueadjusted ideal point model [ 7 ] is proposed very recently to estimate the adjusted ideal points in some separately predetermined issues ( topics ) . In this model , every legislator u has an adjusted issue preference vector zu ∈ RK ( K is the number of topics ) beyond the global ideal point xu . The probability of voting “ YEA ” is determined by her global ideal point as well as the adjusted ideal point in each topic , weighted by the conditional expectation of a bill ’s u E[θd|wd ] + xu)ad + bd ) , topic distribution : p(vud = 1 ) = σ((zT where θd is the topic distribution of a bill d and wd is the observed word vector for bill d .
In this model , however , the topics are predetermined , and there is no impact from voting records which in fact can effectively enhance the topic generation . Besides , since ideal points for all topics are adjusted based on the same global point , the model puts constraints on how a voter can change her positions in different topics . We thus propose a new ideal point model that can overcome the two limitations , and the problem is defined formally in the following .
The detailed topic factorized ideal point model that can solve this problem is introduced in next section , and all notations used can be found in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Table of Notation
NU ND NW NV K θd βk xuk adk n(d , w )
Total number of voters Total number of bills Total number of terms Total number of votes Total number of topics Topic distribution for bill d Word distribution for topic k Ideal point for voter u in topic k Ideal point for bill d in topic k Frequency of word w appearing in bill d Voting from voter u to bill d Constant offset of bill d The observed voting matrix {vud} The parameter matrix {θdk} The parameter matrix {xuk} The parameter matrix {adk} vud bd V W The observed document word matrix {n(d , w)} Θ X A
3 . OUR APPROACH
In this section , we first introduce the topic factorized ideal point model ( TF IPM ) in detail , and then propose the learning algorithm that can learn the parameters in the model given the observed legislative voting network . 3.1 The Topic Factorized Ideal Point Model
The idea of our model is to build a probabilistic model for the legislative voting network , which contains two parts : ( 1 ) the probability modeling for observing the whole corpus of bills given the topic models , and ( 2 ) the probability modeling for the voting record given the topic distribution of bills as well as the ideal points for bills and voters in each topic . The goal is then to learn the parameters including the topic distributions and ideal points that can maximize the combined likelihood function .
The topic factorized ideal point model is illustrated by a graphical model as shown in Figure 4 . We now introduce the two parts separately in the following .
2.3 Problem Definition
Given a legislative voting network G , which contains NU voters , ND bills and NW terms , and the number K of topics , our goal is to learn the topic models ( Θ = {θd}ND k=1 ) and estimate topic factorized ideal points for voters ( X = {xuk} ) and bills ( A = {adk} ) , which can best explain the observed network . Here , we use xuk to denote the ideal point of voter u in topic k , and adk to denote the ideal point of bill d in topic k . d=1 , β = {βk}K
Figure 4 : Graphical model for topic factorized ideal point model .
Modeling the text part .
( 1 ) st and where
Following the idea of traditional topic models PLSA [ 10 ] and LDA [ 3 ] , we can model the probability of each word in each document as a mixture of multinomial distributions . Let n(d , w ) be the frequency of term w appearing in bill d , θdk = p(k|d ) be the probability of document d belonging to topic k , and βkw = p(w|k ) be the probability that topic k generates word w , then the probability of word w appearing in document d with n(d , w ) occurrences can k θdkβkw)n(d,w ) . The probability of observing the word count vector wd = ( n(d , 1 ) , n(d , 2 ) , . . . , n(d , NW ) ) for k θdkβkw)n(d,w ) , and be defined as ( document d is then p(wd|Θ , β ) = w( the probability of observing the whole corpus is then : p(W|Θ , β ) =
(
θdkβkw)n(d,w ) where W is the observed document word count matrix . d w k
Modeling voting links .
Now we introduce how the voting links can be modeled . Intuitively , legislator ( u ) are associated with different ideal points in different topics , which are represented using a K dimensional vector xu ; and bills ( d ) are also associated with different ideal points if they belong to different topics , which are represented using another K dimensional vector ad . For each vote issued from a user u to a bill d , the probability of whether the vote is an “ YEA ” or “ NAY ” is determined by the ideal points for u and d in each topic . For example , if the bill is a combination of “ business ” and “ healthcare ” , we need to see whether the ideal points of u and d agree with each other in both topics . Let vud be the vote score from voter u to bill d , we use vud = 1 to denote “ YEA ” , ie , u voted for d , and use vud = −1 to denote “ NAY ” , ie , u voted against d . The probabilities of the two values of vud are defined by : p(vud = 1 ) = σ(
θdkxukadk + bd ) p(vud = −1 ) = 1 − σ( k
θdkxukadk + bd )
( 2 ) k gistic function . Since k θdk = 1 , the summation where θdk is the topic proportion for bill d in topic k , xuk denotes the ideal point of voter u in topic k , adk denotes the ideal point of bill d in topic k , bd denotes the constant offset , and σ denotes the lok θdkxukadk can be regarded as the weighted average of the agreement between legislator u and bill d in K topics . Note that , we only model the observed links from voters to bills , ie , for the pairs ( u , v ) that vud = 0 . In other words , whether a voter u votes a bill d is not modeled , as in reality legislators cast their votes for almost all bills in her term .
The overall likelihood of observed votes can be modeled as : p(V|Θ , X , A , b ) = p(vud = 1 )
1+vud
2 p(vud = −1 )
1−vud
2
( u,d):vud=0
( 3 ) where V is observed voting matrix , Θ , X , A , b are parameters in matrix/vector form for topic distribution , ideal points , and constant factors . 1+vud transforms the original votes to 1 or 0 , which plays a role as an indicator function . and 1−vud
2
2
Putting it together .
We now combine the two parts together , and the final objective function is a linear combination of the two average log likelihood functions over the word links and voting links . In addition , we also add an l2 regularization term to A and X to reduce the effect of over fitting , equivalently by assuming they are from a Gaussian prior with mean as 0 , and standard deviation as σ : d,w n(d , w ) log , d,w n(d , w ) log p(vud = 1 ) + 1−vud
2 k θdkβkw log p(vud = −1 )
+
J(θ , β , X , A , b ) = ( 1 − λ )
( u,d):vud=0
λ 2σ2 · ( − 1 u,k
, 1+vud
2 x2 uk +
NV a2 dk )
( 4 ) d,k
0 ≤ θdk ≤ 1 ,
0 ≤ βkw ≤ 1 , k w
θdk = 1
βkw = 1 d,w n(d , w ) denotes the total number of word occurrences in the bills , NV denotes the total number of votes , and λ ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) is the tradeoff weight over the two average log likelihood functions . The goal is now to find the best parameters Θ , β , X , A , b that maximize the objective function .
Discussions .
The Advantage of Modeling Θ In issue adjusted IPM , a pre calculated Θ has been used as an auxiliary parameter in the voting part . In practice , however , voting behaviors can also help to guide the topics generation . From our experiments , we can see that the held out predictive accuracy can be significantly enhanced when topics are further adjusted according to voting behaviors .
Topic Model with Background In [ 23 ] , a background model is proposed to help improve the PLSA model . This background model can detect topics that are more distinctive . As there are many background words in the bills , we find that by including a background model in the topic modeling part , the performance of our model can be further enhanced . Considering to compare with issue adjusted model more fairly , we do not introduce the results in the experiment section .
Adding Priors to TF IPM In issue adjusted IPM , priors are added on the parameters . For example , X is assumed from a Gaussian distribution . Similar priors are put on the parameters of our model via the regularization term . In the experiment section , in order to compare all the models fairly , we put the same regularization term for all the baselines .
3.2 The Learning Algorithm
In this section , we introduce the learning algorithm to estimate the parameters , which is an iterative algorithm containing two steps . In the first step , we update the ideal points related parameters ( X , A , and b ) when topics related parameters ( Θ and β ) are fixed ; and in the second step , we update the topic models ( Θ and β ) when fixing ideal points related parameters ( X , A , and b ) .
The first step : updating X , A , b .
We estimate X , A , b using gradient descent algorithm , which involves derivative calculation in the objective function . They are updated using the following rule : define the logistic function based transformation as xuk = xuk + η adk = adk + η bd = bd + η
∂J ∂xuk ∂J ∂adk ∂J ∂bd
( 5 )
θdk = if 1 ≤ k ≤ K − 1 if k = K
( 9 )
 eµdk
K−1 K−1 k=1
1 k=1
1+
1+ eµdk eµdk where η is the learning rate ( we initialize η to be 10−5 , and use line search strategy to adjust η automatically ) , and d:vud=0 adkxuk u:vud=0 θdkxuk
, 1+vud 2 − p(vud = 1 ) , 1+vud 2 − p(vud = 1)2 − p(vud = 1 ) , 1+vud
NV
NV u:vud=0
NV
∂J ∂xuk
∂J ∂adk
∂J ∂bd
= λ
= λ
= λ
− xuk σ2 − adk σ2
( 6 )
The second step : updating Θ and β .
Since the summation of θ is inside log function , the derivative is not easy to compute . Here we follow the idea of expectationmaximization ( EM ) algorithm and maximize a lower bound of the original objective function . We have noted that
θdkβkw p(k|d , w )
θdkβkw p(k|d , w ) p(k|d , w ) log
θdkβkw p(k|d , w ) p(k|d , w ) log θdkβkw − c k k
= d,w n(d , w ) log n(d , w ) log
≥ d,w n(d , w ) where c = n(d , w ) n(d , w ) d,w d,w d,w
= k k k p(k|d , w ) log p(k|d , w ) is a constant with respect to θ and β . The inequality holds because of the Jensen ’s inequality of the concave function log(x ) . We denote this lower bound as : d,w n(d , w )
NV
2 a2 dk ) log p(vud = 1 ) + 1−vud
J1(Θ , β ) = ( 1 − λ )
, 1+vud
2 u,d
λ 2σ2 · ( − 1 x2 uk + k k k p(k|d , w ) log θdkβkw d,w n(d , w ) log p(vud = −1 )
+
( 8 ) and now we seek to maximize it wrt Θ and β .
Updating Θ given other parameters is a nonlinear constrained optimization problem . We could use the method of Lagrange multipliers to remove the constraints , but it involves to solve a complicated function of Lagrange multipliers . Here we use another method to remove the constraints . We regard θdk as a function of a new set of parameters µdk so that there is no constraints on µ . We
( 7 ) where
The new set of parameters µdk(1 ≤ k ≤ K − 1 ) are real numbers and they have no constraints , therefore we can update µdk using gradient descent and recover θdk using the formula above .
The derivative wrt µ is
∂J1 ∂µdk
=
∂J1 ∂θdk
∂θdk ∂µdk
( 10 )
K k=1
λ NV where
∂J1 ∂θdk
=
+ and
∂θdk ∂µdk
=
− p(vud = 1 ) if k = k if k = k w n(d , w)p(k|d , w )
1 − λ d,w n(d , w ) u
2
θdk adk xuk
−θdk θdk
1 + vud
 θdk(1 − θdk ) d n(d , w)p(k|d , w ) d,w n(d , w)p(k|d , w ) p(k|d , w ) =
θold dk βold kw k θold dk βold kw
βnew kw =
( 11 )
( 12 )
( 13 )
( 14 )
We observe that β only appears in the topic model part . So we update β using the EM algorithm as Hofmann proposed [ 10 ] . The update rule of β is
4 . EXPERIMENTS
In this section , we show the experimental results of our model on the legislative voting network extracted from US House and Senate roll call data . 4.1 Data Description
We collect the US House and Senate roll call data in the years between 1990 and 2013 from THOMAS1 , a public website providing federal legislative voting information . Votes and text information for bills are downloaded . We only select the bills where the text information is available , and keep the latest version of a bill if there are multiple versions . For each bill , we first remove stop words , and then choose 10,000 distinct words with highest frequency as the dictionary . 1299 House representatives and 241 senators are collected . Legislators from House have voted 6479 bills , while legislators from Senate have voted 1247 bills . There are 564 bills that are voted by both House and Senate .
In total , there are 1540 legislators , 7162 bills , and 2780453 votes . Some interesting statistics of the data set are shown in Fig 5 and 6 . 1http://thomaslocgov/home/rollcallvotes html
• Root mean square error ( RMSE ) between the predicted vote score and the ground truth vote score : RM SE =
( u,d):vud=0
1+vud
2 2 −p(vud=1 )
.
NV
• Accuracy of correctly predicted votes ( using 0.5 as threshthe votes : , where sgn is old for the predicted probability ) among all Accuracy = the sign function .
( sgn(p(vud=1)−0.5)==vud )
NV
• Average log likelihood of the voting link : avglogL = log p(vud=−1 )
1+vud log p(vud=1)+
( u,d):vud=0
1−vud
2
2
.
NV
( a ) House
( b ) Senate
Figure 5 : Statistics of number of votes for legislators in House and Senate .
The total number of topics is set to be 10 , and λ is set to be 0.8 in TF IPM . The regularization parameter σ is chosen to be 22.4 in 2σ2 around all methods so as to make the regularization coefficient 0001
1
( a ) House
( b ) Senate
Figure 6 : Statistics of percentage of “ YEA ” for legislators in House and Senate .
4.2 Performance Evaluation
We now compare our TP IPM model with several baseline methods in several aspects to demonstrate the power of the proposed model . 421 Baseline Methods We compare our methods with three baseline methods .
1 . One dimensional ideal point model described in Section 2.2 , denoted as 1 IPM .
2 . High dimensional ideal point model described in Section 2.2 , denoted as H IPM .
3 . Issue adjusted ideal point model described in Section 2.2 , de noted as IA IPM .
We use the same number of K for H IPM , IA IPM , and TF IPM , to make sure that the dimensionality of idea points is the same . 422 Evaluation Measures In order to see whether our model has good explanation power of the legislative network , we compare our model to others in terms of the following measures for both training and testing dataset , where we randomly select 90 % of the votes as training and 10 % of the votes as testing .
( a ) RMSE
( b ) Accuracy
( c ) Average likelihood log
Figure 7 : Comparison on training data set .
From the Figure 7 , we can see that high dimensional IPM ( HIPM ) has the best explanation power over the training dataset in terms of all three measures , due to its flexibility in choosing any possible latent factors . TF IPM has the second best training accuracy . However , in Figure 8 , we can see that , TF IPM can overcome the overfitting issue of H IPM when number of topics increases and has the better testing performance in terms of all three measures than all the other two baselines . Considering the interpretability of topic factorized ideal points , we can see TF IPM is a better choice . Most of the models suffer from over fitting problems when the total number of topics increases . We keep using 10 topics in the remaining part of the paper . 423 Parameter Study In our model we have used the parameter λ that links the likelihood of topic model part and voting part as well as the regularization parameter σ . Intuitively , a larger λ means we pose more emphasis on the voting part . We evaluate the effect of λ and show it in Fig 9 . By varying the value of λ in the range of ( 0 , 1 ) , we can derive different parameter estimations , and calculate the average log likelihood and RMSE on testing data . From the result , we can clearly see that voting part indeed plays a more important role than the text part , but when λ is too big , the performance of our
Table 2 : Selected top words in each topic
Top words
Foreign , Government , International
Education , School , Students Individual , Property , Fiscal
Institution , Financial , Agency , Bank
Military , Defense , Duty Law , Authority , Provision Health , Service , Assistance Health , Fiscal , Expenses Funds , Fiscal , Amounts
Public transportation
Public , Transportation , Motor
Individual property
Post label Foreign Education
Financial Military
Law
Health service Health expenses
Funds
# 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
( a ) RMSE
( b ) Accuracy
( c ) Average likelihood log
Figure 8 : Comparison on testing data set . model will become worse due to overfitting . We set λ = 0.8 in all other experiments .
We also study the effect of the regularization term on the performance of our model . We try different values of σ and evaluate average log likelihood and RMSE on testing dataset . The results are shown in Fig 10 , and we can see that the performance becomes less sensitive when σ becomes larger . We set σ = 22.4 in all other experiments .
( a ) Average log likelihood
( b ) RMSE
Figure 9 : Parameter study on λ .
( a ) Average log likelihood
( b ) RMSE
Figure 10 : Parameter study on σ .
424 Convergence of Our Learning Algorithm In order to get a better idea of our iterative learning algorithm , we study the convergence of the learning algorithm here . Fig 11 shows that our learning algorithm converges . Along with the iterations , the objective function is increasing , while training and testing errors are decreasing .
( a ) Objective Function
( b ) RMSE
Figure 11 : Convergence Study
4.3 Case Studies
We now show some case studies to demonstrate ideal points detected by our model . By setting topic number K = 10 and λ = 0.8 , we get topics as shown in Table 2 .
We study the voting behaviors for three famous legislators : Ronald Paul , Republican House representative from Texas ( in office : 1976 1977 , 1979 1985 , and 1997 2013 ) ; Barack Obama , Democratic Senator from Illinois ( in office : 2005 2008 ) ; and Joe Lieberman , Democratic representative from Connecticut ( in office : 1989 2013 ) . Their ideal points are shown in Fig 12 , 13 , and 14 , respectively . We also show the ideal points for some other people in order to understand their relative position and make the scale more meaningful . We can see that : ( 1 ) Obama is in general in the middle and moderately left in almost all the topics ; ( 2 ) Paul is regarded as one of the most conservative republicans in congress , and is most conservative on the role of government on economy but not on social issues and especially is an opponent of war ; and ( 3 ) Lieberman is regarded as a Democrat who is conservative in social goods ( eg , transportation ) and military issues .
We also select one bill that Ronald Paul has voted . It is a bill in 2006 and its number is HRES578 It mainly covers supporting the government of Romania to improve the standard health care and well being of children in Romania . We can find the positions adk as well as the topic distribution θdk of this bill in Fig 15 . We can clearly see that the most notable topics the bill belongs to are “ Health Service ” and “ Funds . ” We can also infer from the ideal points of Ronald Paul and the ideal points for HRES578 that R.Paul is in favor of this bill .
Figure 12 : Estimated Ideal Points for Ronald Paul
( a ) Bill Positions
( b ) Topic Distributions
Figure 15 : Bill H_RES_578 parties lie on different sides of each plane . It can be seen that , by such analysis it is easy to figure out how close two legislators are in terms of certain topic dimensions . We can also easily detect outliers from such visualization .
Figure 13 : Estimated Ideal Points for Barack Obama
Figure 16 : Scatter plot between “ foreign issue ” and “ finance ” .
Figure 14 : Estimated Ideal Points for Joe Lieberman
In addition , we select three topics , energy , education and individual properties , and draw scatter plots for all the legislators in every two of these three topics . Democratic people are represented as blue dots , while Republican people are represented as red ones . Especially , Ronald Paul is represented as a yellow circle , Barack Obama as a green circle , and Joe Lieberman as a pink circle . We can see clearly from Fig 16 , 17 and 18 that legislators in different
Figure 17 : Scatter plot between “ finance ” and “ health expenses ” . developed in order to evaluate a legislator ’s position for each explicit topic in her voting behavior . Apart from a global position , legislators have adjusted positions for different topics . They try to explain legislators’ voting behavior by their affinity to topics that a bill covers . A network based method is proposed to estimate ideal points for Twitter users in [ 2 ] . The key idea is that Twitter users prefer to follow politicians whose political positions are similar to theirs . People ’s political positions are then inferred by those whom they follow in social network . 5.2 Recommendation System
Ideal point estimation model is closely related to recommendation tasks in computer science domain . Given a user item rating matrix , where the entry at ith row and jth column denotes the rating score from user i to item j , the recommendation task is to predict the rating score of items for users . Traditional recommendation algorithms include collaborative filtering ( CF ) [ 9 ] and latent factor models [ 11 , 15 ] .
In latent factor models , people try to explain ratings by characterizing users and items to several latent topics . This idea is natural in that , people usually rate an item based on several aspects , and items also have the corresponding properties . One of the most well known latent factor models is matrix factorization [ 11 ] . In matrix factorization models , each user i is represented by a vector ui and item by a vector vj in the K dimensional latent space . The rating of user i to item j can be seen as the inner product of the user feature vector and the item feature vector : ˆrij = uivT j . It naturally leads to the decomposition of the rating matrix R into the product of two matrices R = U V T , where U is an N × K user factor matrix , and V is an M × K item factor matrix .
In this paper , we focus on the modeling of the voting prediction on a legislative voting network , where legislators do not have freedom to choose bills to vote . Also , we want to include the text information to enhance the prediction accuracy . 5.3 Topic Modeling , Link Enhanced Topic Modeling , and Text Enhanced Recommendation
Topic model is a type of statistic model for discovering the abstract topics that occur in a collection of documents . In topic models , each document is represented as a bag of words . The basic idea is , a latent topic is drawn conditionally to the document , and each word is then generated from that topic . The classical topic models include PLSA [ 10 ] and LDA [ 3 ] .
In addition to the text information in documents , the links between documents can be exploited to further enhance the result of topic models . [ 20 ] proposes a unified information networkenhanced topic model that integrates the structural information and text information in a document network , and [ 14 ] proposes a solution to the problem of topic modeling with network structure regularization . Both of the two studies can significantly enhance the original topics model quality . In this paper , the topic model part is enhanced from the voting link part , which is different from the two papers where links exist between the documents .
Topic model can be used to enhance recommendation as well [ 7 , 1 , 22 ] . A collaborative topic regression model is proposed to recommend scientific articles [ 21 ] . The recommendation algorithm is based on both content of articles and users’ ratings , and topic distributions are converted into feature vectors for users . Different from these methods , we use topic distribution as a explicit dimension for ideal points analysis , while existing methods directly use topic distribution as feature vector for users or items . In [ 13 ] , a topic model is built on the reviews from users to products to help
Figure 18 : Scatter plot between “ health expenses ” and “ foreign issue ” .
4.4 Application : Predicting Votes for Unseen
Bills
An interesting application of our model is to make voting predictions for an unseen bill d with just text information . Note that , for 1 IPM and H IPM , there is no way for us to predict votes related to an unseen bill , as it is impossible to get the latent feature for an unseen bill .
We perform our study in the following three steps : • First , we estimate the topic distribution for the bill θd according to current topic models , ie , the β , using simple language models .
• Second , we train a linear regression model to predict ad and bd , utilizing the text information ( bag of word representation ) as features . Note that , once we have learned the ideal points and popularity for the observed bills , we can then use these bills as training samples to learn the weights associated with the linear model . Using text to analyze data actually belongs to a broader study of opinion mining [ 16 ] . Here , we just use a simple approach to demonstrate our TF IPM model .
• Finally for each legislator u , we can predict whether she favors this unseen bill by plugging in her ideal points in each topic : p(vud = 1 ) = σ( k θdkxukadk + bd ) .
We find that by using 90 % of the bills as training dataset and hide all the voting information for the remaining 10 % bills as testing dataset , we can still achieve a 80.8 % accuracy in predicting votes from voters to them . More studies along this line will be performed in future work .
5 . RELATED WORK
In this section , we introduce other related work to our study .
5.1
Ideal Point Models
Poole and Rosenthal ( [17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 19 ] ) make seminal contributions and launched a massive literature of ideal point models . Alternative methods of ideal point estimation are developed by political scientists include Clinton et al . [ 4 ] , Heckman and Snyder [ 8 ] , and Londregan [ 12 ] . In [ 7 ] , an issue adjusted ideal point model is the rating prediction . However , the text information exists directly on the links from users to items , while in our case , text information is only linked to bills ( items ) .
6 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we propose a novel topic factorized ideal point estimation model ( TF IPM ) that uses text information and voting behavior collectively in a legislative voting network . First , we model the ideal points of legislators and bills for each topic instead of assigning them to a global one . Second , the generation of topics are guided by the voting matrix in addition to the text information contained in bills . A unified model that combines voting behavior modeling and topic modeling is presented , and an iterative learning algorithm is proposed to learn the topics of bills as well as the topic factorized ideal points of legislators and bills . By comparing with the state of the art ideal point estimation models , our method has a much better explanation power in terms of held out log likelihood and other measures . Besides , case studies show that the topic factorized ideal points coincide with human intuition . Finally , we illustrate how to use these topic factorized ideal points to predict voting results for unseen bills .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Agarwal and B C Chen . flda : matrix factorization through latent dirichlet allocation . In Proc . of the third ACM Int . Conf . on Web Search and Data Mining ( WSDM’10 ) , pages 91–100 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] P . Barberá . Birds of the same feather tweet together . bayesian ideal point estimation using twitter data . Unpublished manuscript , New York University , 2013 .
[ 3 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . the Journal of Machine Learning Research ( JMLR’03 ) , 3:993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 4 ] J . Clinton , S . Jackman , and D . Rivers . The statistical analysis of roll call data . American Political Science Review , 98(02):355–370 , 2004 .
[ 5 ] S . Feldman and C . Johnston . Understanding the determinants of political ideology : Implications of structural complexity . Political Psychology , 2013 .
[ 6 ] S . Gerrish and D . M . Blei . Predicting legislative roll calls from text . In Proc . of the 28th Int . Conf . on Machine Learning ( ICML’11 ) , pages 489–496 , 2011 .
[ 7 ] S . Gerrish and D . M . Blei . How they vote : Issue adjusted models of legislative behavior . In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ( NIPS’12 ) , pages 2762–2770 , 2012 .
[ 8 ] J . J . Heckman and J . M . S . Jr . Linear probability models of the demand for attributes with an empirical application to estimating the preferences of legislators . The RAND Journal of Economics , 28:pp . S142–S189 , 1997 .
[ 9 ] J . L . Herlocker , J . A . Konstan , A . Borchers , and J . Riedl . An algorithmic framework for performing collaborative filtering . In Proc . of the 22nd Annual Int . ACM SIGIR Conf . on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 230–237 , 1999 .
[ 10 ] T . Hofmann . Probabilistic latent semantic analysis . In Proc . of the Fifteenth Conf . on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence ( UAI’99 ) , pages 289–296 , 1999 .
[ 11 ] Y . Koren , R . Bell , and C . Volinsky . Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems . Computer , 42(8):30–37 , 2009 .
[ 12 ] J . Londregan . Estimating legislators’ preferred points .
Political Analysis , 8(1):35–56 , 1999 .
[ 13 ] J . McAuley and J . Leskovec . Hidden factors and hidden topics : understanding rating dimensions with review text . In Proc . of the 7th ACM Conf . on Recommender Systems ( RecSys’13 ) , pages 165–172 , 2013 .
[ 14 ] Q . Mei , D . Cai , D . Zhang , and C . Zhai . Topic modeling with network regularization . In Proc . of the 17th Int . Conf . on World Wide Web ( WWW’08 ) , pages 101–110 , 2008 . [ 15 ] A . Mnih and R . Salakhutdinov . Probabilistic matrix factorization . In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ( NIPS’07 ) , pages 1257–1264 , 2007 .
[ 16 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis .
Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , 2(1 2):1–135 , 2008 .
[ 17 ] K . T . Poole and H . Rosenthal . A spatial model for legislative roll call analysis . American Journal of Political Science , 29(2):pp . 357–384 , 1985 .
[ 18 ] K . T . Poole and H . Rosenthal . Patterns of congressional voting . American Journal of Political Science , 35(1):pp . 228–278 , 1991 .
[ 19 ] K . T . Poole and H . Rosenthal . Congress : A
Political Economic History of Roll Call Voting . Oxford University Press , 1997 .
[ 20 ] Y . Sun , J . Han , J . Gao , and Y . Yu . iTopicModel : Information network integrated topic modeling . In Proc . 2009 Int . Conf . Data Mining ( ICDM’09 ) , Miami , FL , 2009 .
[ 21 ] C . Wang and D . M . Blei . Collaborative topic modeling for recommending scientific articles . In Proc . of the 17th ACM SIGKDD Int . Conf . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ( KDD’11 ) , pages 448–456 , 2011 .
[ 22 ] E . Wang , D . Liu , J . Silva , L . Carin , and D . B . Dunson . Joint analysis of time evolving binary matrices and associated documents . In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ( NIPS’10 ) , pages 2370–2378 , 2010 .
[ 23 ] C . Zhai , A . Velivelli , and B . Yu . A cross collection mixture model for comparative text mining . In Proc . of the tenth ACM SIGKDD Int . Conf . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ( KDD’04 ) , pages 743–748 , 2004 .
