EDUSOURCE : INTEROPERABLE NETWORK OF
LEARNING OBJECT REPOSITORIES Griff Richards Marek Hatala
Simon Fraser University Surrey
2400 Central City
Surrey , BC , Canada , V3T 2W1
+1 ( 604 ) 586 6062 griff@sfu.ca a global community can benefit from decentralized storage of content on the users’ own hard drives . For learning objects this means that individual instructors , if provided with the standard MD and communication protocol , can develop and store their materials so that others may directly search and access their public materials . Two projects exploiting peer to peer technology for learning objects are currently under development . The POOL project [ 2 ] concentrates on the heterogeneous infrastructure and end user tools utilizing CanCore MD standard to connect individual and organizational repositories . Edutella [ 3 ] is a prototype peer to peer network which builds in a structured query service to help locate learning objects , an annotation service to allow users to comment on learning objects , and a mediation service to join MD from different sources .
2 . POOL , POND AND SPLASH The POOL project ( wwwedusplashnet ) ran from 1999 to 2002 . One of its major goals was to build an infrastructure for connecting heterogeneous repositories into one network . The infrastructure used a peer to peer model in which nodes could be individual repositories ( called SPLASH ) or community or enterprise repositories ( PONDs ) . PONDS were connected to the POOL network using a specialized peer performing both functions of a gateway and wrapper . The POOL network uses protocol JXTA CanCore/IMS MD profile/specification to exchange MD . Connected PONDs communicated using wrappers either via HTTP and CGI or XMLRPC protocol . The wrapper also performs the MD schema translation functions that are needed . The network supported a high autonomy for the repositories , but this required creating a specialized wrapper translating between the MD schemas and communication protocols . peering using
3 . EDUSOURCE The eduSource project ( wwwedusourceca ) is bringing together major LOR players in Canada to create an open infrastructure for linking interoperable LORs . The infrastructure will support a wide range of services with high autonomy and breadth of functionality with ease of connecting a new system into the infrastructure and ease of use of existing systems . The eduSource aims at creating a system which is both open to new services becoming participants in the system and existing systems connecting to the eduSource . For example a repository using OAI ’s Protocol for Metadata Harvesting ( PMH ) ( wwwopenarchivesorg ) and Dublin Core MD can either communicate with the eduSource network as a whole via gateway mechanism or can become a participant with access to wider range of services via the interoperability connector called semantic cobblestone . Figure 1 demonstrates the interoperability model in the eduSource network .
Simon Fraser University Surrey
2400 Central City
Surrey , BC , Canada , V3T 2W1
+1 ( 604 ) 586 6053 mhatala@sfu.ca
ABSTRACT In this paper , we describe the approach to achieve a high level of interoperability in the eduSource . The eduSource project is a panCanadian collaborative project to create a testbed of linked and interoperable ( LOR ) . Two interoperability mechanisms will support linkage of LORs . A semantic cobblestone supports connecting the LOR into the eduSource network and will provide metadata and ontology mapping facilities . The linkage of eduSource network with other metadata initiatives will be supported via gateway mechanism . repositories learning object
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Systems ] : Systems and Software – distributed systems , information network , K31 [ Computers and Education ] : Computer Uses in Education
General Terms Management , Design , Reliability , Standardization , Languages
Keywords Learning object repositories , Peer to peer systems , Learning objects metadata , Ontologies , Semantic web
1 . INTRODUCTION The huge uptake of web technology in education and training has generated a flurry of un coordinated activity developing digital learning objects – images , animations , computer applets or textual content which could be used in the processes of education and training . It was immediately recognized that standards are important for interoperability between learning and business systems . Several standards for describing metadata ( MD ) have been developed through collaboration between the private and public sectors ( IEEE LOM , IMS specifications , SCORM ) . Centralized digital ( LORs ) evolved as a means of collecting and cataloguing these assets with hopes of reducing the redundancy of development and enabling others to build on the aggregated ideas and designs . Unfortunately , a single centralized repository is unlikely to be of sufficient size to accommodate all of the webbased learning objects that have or will be created . Recent developments in peer to peer web technology have made it possible for local collections of entertainment content . The peer to peer model demonstrated that individuals to amass
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2003 , May 20 24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary . WWW 2003 , May 20 24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary . ACM xxx . ACM xxx . infrastructure
The internal eduSource infrastructure is being implemented using web services model with the envisioned semantic web services extension [ 1 ] . The initial set of services available in the eduSource network are repositories for storing LOs , MD repositories for storing LO MD , tagging tools for creating MD records , search tools for searching LOs , aggregation tools for aggregating LOs into lessons and a digital right management component for handling copyrighted materials . Similar to POOL , the eduSource supports organizational and individual ( peer to peer ) repositories . 3.2 Gateway : Interoperability outside of eduSource Although the eduSource internal protocol provides a flexible and efficient solution it is unlikely that well established repositories and resources will invest resources and convert their protocols to the ECL . However , the ability of the eduSource project to connect to other established protocols and major initiatives is of the utmost the project participants . eduSource addresses the problem of outside interoperability by providing a second type of mediator simply called eduSource gateway . eduSource gateway is modeled after the design patter of an adapter functioning at the network level . The range of the functionality is similar to that of the semantic cobblestone , but the main function of the gateway is to mediate between ECL and communication protocols used by the outside systems . Two protocols being implemented at the beginning are OAI PMH and Z3950 The gateway component is being developed as an open source product by the eduSource community with a clearly defined architecture of chained handlers which makes it easy to incorporate a new functionality or update and existing one . Another specific functionality the gateway will perform is a selector of internal eduSource services for the incoming requests . This functionality has been identified as important but will require more attention in near future . importance to
4 . CONCLUSIONS The first implementation of the eduSource infrastructure is expected in Fall 2003 . The described interoperability solution will initially support tools and services of project partners and will seek the linkages to other international initiatives .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ankolenkar A . et al . : DAML S : Web Service Description for the Semantic Web , in : I.Horrocks and J.Hendler ( Eds. ) : The Semantic Web – ISWC 2002 , Springer , LNCS 2342 , pp . 348 365 , 2002 .
[ 2 ] Hatala , M . , and Richards , G . Global vs . Community
Metadata Standards : Empowering Users for Knowledge Exchange , in : I . Horrocks and J . Hendler ( Eds. ) : The Semantic Web – ISWC 2002 , Springer , LNCS 2342 , pp . 292 306 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] Nejdl , W.et al . : Edutella : A P2P Networking Infrastructure
Based on RDF , in Proc . Of the 11 th International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 2002 ) , Hawaii , USA , May 2002 .
[ 4 ] IMS Digital Repositories Interoperability Core Functions
Information Model , http://wwwimsglobalorg/digital repositories/driv1p0/imsdri_infov1p0.html
Figure 1 . Infrastructure of eduSource network is the interoperability
3.1 Semantic Cobblestones : Interoperability in eduSource The interoperability solution for the eduSource project aims to provide an effective and expandable infrastructure which conforms to the IMS DRI specification and provides a generic solution for connectivity to other major initiatives such as OAI , NSDL , and the Edutella project ( edutellajxtaorg ) The solution builds on open standards and enables any interested party to connect to the eduSource network and access its services . The eduSource project uses the lessons learned from other projects and specifically ( in the area of interoperability ) the POOL project . The backbone of the eduSource Communication Language ( ECL ) which implements the core functions defined in the IMS Digital Repository Interoperability reference model [ 4 ] . A primary communication protocol in eduSource is SOAP and ECL is implemented as asynchronous SOAP messages . The default MD standard selected for the eduSource is Cancore/IEEE LOM ( wwwcancoreorg ) The eduSource infrastructure makes no assumptions about the format of MD stored in the repositories participating in the network . The repositories store MD in their local format and MD is available and can be used by other services and tools in original form or mapped into other supported standards . Such a high level of autonomy typically makes it difficult to add a new component into the network . In eduSource we alleviate this problem by providing a highly configurable connector , the semantic cobblestone , with predefined mapping mechanisms for the most common MD schemas along with the ability to expand its functionality by defining additional mappings . In addition to mapping between MD schemas the connector enables to define mapping at the deeper semantic level . This is necessary for mapping between taxonomical or ontological structures used as sources of values for the MD elements , for example in the classification element . The ability to map between two ontological structures is essential for allowing individual repositories to expand MD schema with elements supporting local community needs . The third function of semantic cobblestone is to translate between repository native communication protocol and ECL . We do not consider this function to be as essential as implementation of the ECL over the SOAP protocol , which is supported with libraries simplifying the process .
