Building Interoperability among
Learning Content Management Systems
Bernd SIMON
Information Systems Dept . Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien
Symeon RETALIS
Department of Computer Science
University of Cyprus ,
Augasse 2 6 , 1090 Vienna , Austria
75 Kallipoleos Str . , Nicosia , Cyprus
+43 1 31336 4328
+357 22 8922
Stefan BRANTNER BearingPoint Infonova
Seering 6 ,
8141 Graz , Austria +43 316 8003 2102 bsimon@wu wienacat retal@csucyaccy stefanbrantner@infonovacom
ABSTRACT This paper addresses interoperability issues of learning content management systems . Motivation and design challenges are presented and an interoperability framework implemented at the Universal Brokerage Platform for learning resources is specified .
Categories and Subject Descriptors K31 [ Computer Uses in Education ] : Distance learning
General Terms Design , Experimentation , Standardization ,
( http://wwweducanextorg/ ) , which builds on a web based tool called the Universal Brokerage Platform ( UBP ) . The UBP provides services for covering critical issues such as the announcement , offering , distribution , and exchange of learning resources via dispersed LCMS [ 2 ] . In this paper the term LCMS is used in its broadest sense and refers to any kind of internet based application used for hosting and delivering learning resources . The UBP , for example , interfaces with LCMS such as the learning management systems Clix and Arel , the streaming media server of RealNetworks , the video conferencing tool Isabel , and the Apache web server .
Keywords Interoperability , Management Systems , Educational Brokers , Web Services
Learning Objects ,
Learning Content
1 . WHY INTEROPERABILITY MATTERS The Web puts a huge number of learning resources within reach of anyone with Internet access . However , these valuable resources are difficult to find in an efficient manner . Resources are either not clearly identified as learning resources or lack a sufficient description in order to make them reusable in learning situations . Sometimes valuable resources are hidden in the closed and proprietary worlds of learning management systems , streaming media servers and video conferencing applications . These systems allow user access only through proprietary interfaces and data formats . In brief , there is lack of interoperability . Interoperability can be defined as “ the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged ” [ 1 ] . To a user , the lack of interoperability means :
• Applications and their data are isolated ; • Redundant data entry is required .
On the contrary , interoperability ensures that data is entered only once in one application , and automatically propagates to other applications . Interoperable systems have rules defined , which control their interactions and make them exchange data more effectively . The aim of this paper is to address challenges of making learning content management systems ( LCMS ) interoperable and present an architecture which has been implemented in the context of the UNIVERSAL project . The project has realized an exchange environment called EducaNext resources , for learning
Figure 1 : Exchange Process supported by the UBP [ 3 ]
In Universal , the UBP acts as an educational broker . Like an electronic market place the platform provides facilities for the purpose of exchanging learning resources among individuals and organizations . A brokerage service has two types of users : those who offer resources ( providers ) and those who consume the resources offered ( consumers ) . The purpose of an educational broker is not simply to host and deliver learning resources , but to reuse and share them either in a commercial or in a communitylike setting . The UBP offers the user the functionality to browse and search in a catalogue of resources , manage an e portfolio of favorite resources , book resources , annotate resources , contribute resource , etc . The functions required for supporting an exchange process are illustrated in Figure 1 . While many educational brokers reduce the issue of interoperability by trying to be compliant with metadata standards , the UBP also addresses issues such as the following :
• How can a user of a learning management systems offer her courses / course material in a market place ?
• How can a user consume a remotely located videobased lesson once he agreed on the usage conditions ?
• How can a user upload content to a remote , but protected web space ? specify the communication between
While SCORM ’s Run Time Environment Specification and AICC ’s Recommendations for Computer/Web based Managed Instruction learning management systems and courseware ( learning resources ) , this effort aims at specifying the communication between LCMS for the purpose of learning resource exchange . The IMS Digital Repositories Interoperability targets a similar objective and presents high level use cases as well as a reference model [ 5 ] .
2 . DESIGN CHALLENGES When trying to make LCMS interoperable via a broker the following challenges arise :
• A unified set of ( core ) attributes needs to be provided •
The permissible values ( also referred to as vocabularies ) need to be defined ; finding a common classification and a common taxonomy for learning resource types are usually one of the hardest issues of this work item .
• A set of interface commands needs to be specified in order to support system to system communication for the purpose of learning resource exchange .
At the UBP , a careful selection of Dublin Core ( DC ) and IEEE Learning Objects Metadata ( LOM ) attributes ( see [ 3 ] ) provide the descriptors for educational activities ( eg courses ) and educational material ( eg online textbooks ) . The Dutch Basic Classification serves as a subject classification ; the learning resource type taxonomy used is a proprietary one . The interface commands are addressed in the following section . 3 . SYSTEM INTERFACE FRAMEWORK This paper proposes an open system interface framework for interoperable LCMS . Apart from a central data repository where the broker holds its own learning resources provided by the content creators , several other LCMS based data repositories located in different places on the Internet can be connected to the UBP system and advertise their content . Thus , the broker will be a “ one stop ” distribution point of learning resources via a network of LCMS . The system interface framework [ 4 ] is structured into two layers : Application Layer and Administration Layer ( see Figure 2 ) . The application layer contains a number of services facilitating the exchange of learning resources . The administration layer provides means for administering users and systems . The functions offered by the two layers can be invoked using various kinds of technologies , eg HTTP(S) based URL encoding or WSDL/SOAP transferred over HTTP(S)/SMTP . The application layer provides application services along the exchange process presented in Figure 1 . It relies on a trusted environment , where users and systems are authenticated by the services of the administration layer . There is a Provision service , which replicates learning resource descriptions and offer information between the LCMS and the broker . Learning Resource Management provides means for uploading an educational material to an LCMS . The Inspection service can be used to check the status ( eg availability ) of learning resources and systems . The Querying service provides an
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2003 , May 20 24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary . ACM xxx . interface for realizing a network of federated brokers or just for querying an LCMS . The Access Control service grants users access rights for learning resources they have booked and withdraws when the right has expired . The Delivery interface supports learning resource access via the broker by connecting to the repositories or launching video conferencing applications .
Figure 2 : System Interface Framework for interoperable
LCMS [ 4 ]
At the time of writing the interface specification available in Version 1.2 [ 4 ] , includes a description of a usage scenario , functionality and interface Definition Language ( Java like notation ) for each of the mentioned services . Prototypes for the provision of learning resources via the learning management systems Arel and Clix have been successfully implemented . Access Control , Learning Resource Management and Inspection interfaces are operational for the Apache web server and RealNetwork ’s streaming media server . The Delivery interface has been implemented and tested for the video conferencing system Isabel .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported by the UNIVERSAL project and is partly sponsored by the European Commission ( IST 1999 11747 ) . The System Interface Framework for Building Educational Brokerage Networks has many contributors , which we would like to thank for their continuing efforts in reducing boundaries of learning resource exchange .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] IEEE Standard Computer Dictionary : A Compilation of IEEE Standard Computer Glossaries , New York : IEEE , 1990 .
[ 2 ] S . Guth , G . Neumann , and B . Simon , “ UNIVERSAL
Design Spaces for Learning Media , ” in Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , R . H . Sprague , Ed . Maui , USA : IEEE , 2001 .
[ 3 ] B . Simon and J . Quemada , “ A Critical Reflection of
Metadata Standards based on Usage Scenarios , ” in Campus 2002 : Die virtuelle Hochschule in der Konsolidierungsphase , G . Bachmann , O . Haefeli , and M . Kindt , Eds . Münster , et al . : Waxmann , 2002 .
[ 4 ] B . Simon and S . Brantner , System Interface Framework for Building Educational Brokerage Networks . Vienna , Graz : http://nmwu wienacat/e learning/interoperability/interfaceSpecs2003 01 24 Version12pdf , accessed 2003 03 31 .
[ 5 ] IMS Digital Repositories Specification , available at http://wwwimsglobalorg/digitalrepositories/indexcfm , accessed 2003 03 31 .
