SCORM compliant SMIL enabled Multimedia Streaming
E Learning System in Java EJB Environment
Sheng Tun Li
Department of Information
Management National Kaohsiung
First University of Science and Technology , Taiwan , ROC stli@ccmsnkfustedutw
Chu Hung Lin
Huang Chih Hsieh
Department of Information
Department of Information
Management National Kaohsiung
Management National Kaohsiung
First University of Science and Technology , Taiwan , ROC winf@ ainkfustedutw
First University of Science and Technology , Taiwan , ROC jack@ainkfustedutw
ABSTRACT The emergence of the SCORM specification has shed a light toward standardization of e learning which makes the reusability and interoperability of learning resources feasible . However , the existing SCORM compliant asset model is over simplified ; only few asset types are defined . On the other hand , W3C ’s declarative style SMIL is becoming prevalent in designing Webbased instructions with the consideration of temporality and spatiality of the presentations . In addition , advances in real time multimedia technologies can further vitalize these instructions . In this study , we propose a SMIL enabled asset model with the enhancement of multimedia streaming . To render SCORMcompliant SMIL enabled streaming contents , a Java applet based SMIL RTP/RTSP LMS system is designed in the Java EJB environment to tackle the issue of platform interoperability . The resulting system demonstrates an encouraging direction towards more vivid and interactive SCORM compliant e learning .
Keywords SCORM , e learning , SMIL , multimedia streaming , EJB
1 . INTRODUCTION The rapidly increasing expansion of the Internet has brought dramatic impact to one ’s life and education alike . E learning differentiates from the traditional learning in its ability to train anyone , anytime , and anywhere attributed to the openness of the Internet . Without the temporal and spatial limitation , one can have an independent and individual learning space . In general , digitalized courseware is managed by the so called Learning Management System ( LMS ) , which educates learners in the courseware and keeps track of their learning behaviors . However , most courseware in different LMS environments cannot be interoperable directly , which impedes the attempt to share learning resources . In addition , the heterogeneity existing in the different LMSs is another impediment . It is inconvenient to monitor and evaluate learner ’s behavior from one environment to another . All these hinder the sharing of learning resources including LMSs and the contents . The emerging SCORM ( Shareable Content Object Reference Model ) standard has been developed to overcome these hurdles . The objective of the specification is to facilitate the interoperability between SCORMcompliant contents and SCORM compliant LMSs , and to make the valuable resources become durable , interoperable , accessible , and reusable [ 1 ] .
The present asset model of SCORM is over simplified in supporting multimedia presentations ; vivid multimedia streaming contents are usually excluded . In addition , designing the in a similar manner
SCORM compliant streaming contents is not a trivial task . Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language ( SMIL ) [ 2 ] , built on XML , proposed by W3C provides a simple way to design multimedia presentations to HTML documents . The SMIL specification meets three requirements of multimedia document models , namely temporal , spatial and interaction . To vitalize the asset contents of SCORM , this study proposes a new asset model based on the SMIL and RTP/RTSP standards so that the features of spatiality , temporality , interaction , and streaming control can be added into assets . The extended asset model conforms to SCORM , and thus any SMIL enabled asset can be imported to LMS and can communicate with LMS to track the learners’ learning progress . Moreover , to facilitate the interoperability of sharable course contents and LMS , we develop a LMS on the top of Enterprise Java Bean ( EJB ) , a distributed component based computing environment , for realizing SCORMcompliant SMIL enabled multimedia streaming contents .
2 . SMIL ENABLED MULTIMEDIASTREAMING ASSETS In SCORM , the mechanism of Content Packaging is designed for packing instruction contents and the navigation sequences . In a content package , the portion of “ organizations ” specifies the content structure and the browsed sequence of this content . The “ resources ” session describes the instruction materials needed in this content , such as the type and physical location of each physical file . To create a SMIL enabled asset , one may define an unlaunchable asset , which refers to a physical filename ending with “ .smil ” ( see Table 1 , for example ) .
Table 1 . The unlaunchable SMIL enabled asset
……… <! unlaunchable asset > <resource identifier="R_U1" type="webcontent"adlcp:scormtype="asset"> <file href="resource/intro.smil" /> </resource> ……… The intro.smil resource defines the rendering sequence of text , image , and sound objects , RTP/RTSP streams synchronously in different regions . Table 2 illustrates a porting of the resource . 3 . SCORM COMPLIANT LMS IN EJB Figure 1 shows the system architecture of the LMS in the EJB environment realizing SMIL enabled streaming assets . Initially , the client has to download an API Adapter applet from the Object Web Server . The applet is an EJB component responsible for communicating with the LMS Server to access learning resources . There are five enterprise Java beans in LMS for
Server on the EJB container . UserEJB , an entity bean , is in charge of confirming the legality of users and maintaining information of the users . cListEJB , an entity bean , maintains the list of instructions available in LMS so that students may choose the courses they like to browse . ReadEJB , an entity bean , tracks and records the learning behavior of each student in the data model defined in SCORM ’s RTE in the background . This bean plays the most important role in the proposed LMS . C2SYSEJB , a session bean , allows teachers or system adminstrators to import courses or update course contents . In detail , this EJB object is responsible for unzipping the content package ( a PIF file ) of instructions , analyzing the imsmanifest , and allocating all physical files in approciate locatons in a content repository . Moreover , this session bean is the interface between EJB client and CourseEJB . CourseEJB , an entity bean , endorses the C2SYSEJB bean to access the content repository database . In the implementation , this entity bean is wrapped by CourseEJB in a session bean therefore one can access all the business functionalities without the overhead of polling the entity bean .
Table 2 . The content of SMIL resource : intro.smil
<seq repeat="1"> <par endsync="last" repeat="1"> <rtp id="img 1" region="main" src="rtp://224001:999/audio" dur="250s" fill="remove" /> invoked
</par> <rtsp region="main" src="rtsp://1631816220/ProgID=1036806870" dur="250s" fill="remove" /> </seq> In order to support manipulating multimedia streams , SMIL Parser parse SMIL enabled assets and extract embedded multimedia objects . If the extracted object is a RTP object , RTP Handler will be to receive RTP media streams , synchronize audio and video srtream , and render them in the client screen [ 3 ] . On the other hand , when client obtains a RTSP object , RTSP Remote Controller is additionally called . Initially , RTSP Server returns a SDP ( Session Description Protocol ) message , which describes the information of RTP media to be transmitted . After parsing the SDP data by SDP Parser , RTP Handler receives and consumes the RTP stearms . During the playback , RTSP Remote Controller handles the RTSP protocol between client and RTSP Server . Besides , the client may issue the Play , Pause , Fast Forward , Rewind , or Stop command to control the streams .
4 . EXPERIMENT The proposed SMIL enabled multimedia streaming e learning system has been experimented on the JBoss 303_Tomcat 4112 EJB server [ 4 ] . Figure 2 illustrates the snapshot of browsing SMIL enabled RTP/RTSP multimedia assets with a VCR like control bar .
Figure 2 . The presentation of SMIL enabled RTP/RTSP asset 5 . CONCLUSIONS This paper proposed a SMIL enabled asset model , which allows W3C ’s SMIL documents with multimedia streaming objects to be embedded in instructions . We developed a Java applet based SMIL player and LMS for realizing and rendering such assets on the learner ’s Web browser . To handle the interoperability issue of LMSs , the developed LMS was built in the Java EJB componentbased computing environment . With the SMIL ability and the streaming multimedia objects of assets , instruction contents could be more vivid and interactive . The proposed asset model is adherent to the SCORM standard ; thus it can be sharable , reusable , accessible and durable . The next research direction is to enhance the proposed LMS by incorporating a directory service such as LDAP ( lightweight directory access protocol ) so that the remote SMIL enabled assets can be interoperable and sharable .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was partly supported by NSC91 2520 S 327 001 , Taiwan . The first author is supported in part by the Innovation and Incubation Center at National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology under contract 90B00025 .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Sharable Content Object Reference Model Version 1.2 , http://wwwadlnetorg/
[ 2 ] “ Synchronized Multimedia , ” http://wwwww3org/AudioVideo
[ 3 ] Li , S T and Chen , H C , “ An Architecture neutral Approach to Web based Synchronized Multimedia Presentations with RTP Video Streams , ” The Seventh International Conference on Distributed Multimedia Systems ( DMS'2001 ) , Tamkang University , Taipei , Taiwan , September 26 28 , 2001 .
Figure 1 . The proposed LMS architecture in EJB environment
[ 4 ] Jboss , http://wwwjbossorg
