Social Network Extraction of Conference Participants
Hongo 7 3 1 , Tokyo 113 8656 ,
Advanced Industrial Science
Yutaka Matsuo National Institute of and Technology
Kˆoiti Hasida
National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology
Hironori Tomobe
The University of Tokyo
Japan tomobe@mivtu tokyoacjp
Aomi 2 41 6 , Tokyo 135 0064 ,
Aomi 2 41 6 , Tokyo 135 0064 ,
Japan
Japan ymatsuo@carcaistgojp hasidak@carcaistgojp
ABSTRACT In a ubiquitous computing environment , it is desirable to provide a user with information depending on a user ’s situation , such as time , location , user behavior , and social context . At conventions , such as academic conferences and exhibitions , where participants must register in advance , the social context of participants can be extracted from the Web using their names and affiliations without asking them many questions . In our study , we attempt to extract the social network of participants from the Web , where a node represents a participant and an edge represents the relationship of two participants . The network shows the position of each participant and some participant clusters . Furthermore , this network can be used in many services , such as finding an appropriate person to introduce or negotiate with someone , and who one should talk to in order to expand his/her network efficiently .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous ; D.2 [ Software ] : Software Engineering
Keywords social network , search engine , personalized service
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In a ubiquitous computing environment [ 6 ] , much information about users’ behavior can be obtained by a sensor network . We seek to provide users with personalized information depending on the situation : time , location , and user behavior . Especially at conventions such as academic conferences , the social context of each user is very important because they gather to experience new encounters and exchange knowledge face to face .
Assume a participant at a conference wants to make friends with researchers with similar interests near his current location . A future ubiquitous environment might detect the user ’s location and recommend that the user talk to a certain person . However , without background knowledge about the social network , the system may recommend the user ’s colleague or supervisor because they share the same interests .
Utilizing background knowledge about participants’ social network , many potential applications can be considered . Assume a user wants to talk to a certain person and wants someone to introduce her . With the help of social network knowledge , the system
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2003 , May 20–24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary . ACM xxx . can determine who is appropriate to introduce her . Conversely , one can find the path from herself to anyone with whom she might be talking . Another example might be efficient networking . A weak tie , which in social network theory is a connection between groups that don’t ordinarily interact , play an important role in getting valuable information [ 2 ] . The system can suggest who may be a candidate for this weak tie ; that is , one who shares the similar interests , but is in a different social group . Also , if one wishes , one could find who is appropriate to make a tie with in order to move you more centered in the network [ 1 ] .
At academic conferences such as WWW2003 , a participant must register a profile ( at least name and affiliation ) prior to the conference . In such cases , it is reasonable to assume that we have a list of participants and time to gather information about those participants from the Web . Referral Web [ 3 ] is a project to discover a social chain from an individual to the target person from the Web ; however , in our case , fortunately we have a list of the names in advance , and try to discover the whole network structure among participants from the Web . Digital services for social events are not rare [ 5 ] . But our approach is different in that the system is conscious of the social network generated from information on the WWW .
Our system will serve at the 16th Annual Conference of the Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence ( JSAI 2003 ) , installed as a location based information support system [ 4 ] . In this poster , we briefly overview the social network detection algorithm .
2 . SOCIAL NETWORK EXTRACTION
We assume that names and affiliations of participants are given beforehand . ( Although some participants appear without prior registration , we currently ignore these cases . ) Therefore , nodes of the social network are invented first .
Next , edges between nodes are added utilizing Web information . The most simple approach is to measure relevance of two nodes based on the number of retrieved results by a search engine . For example , assume we are to measure the relevance of two names ‘Yutaka Matsuo ” ( denoted X ) and “ Hironori Tomobe ” ( denoted Y ) . We first put a query “ X and Y ” to a search engine and get a documents including those words in the text . ( We only need the number of matched documents , not the whole contents of the matched documents . ) Also , we put a query “ X or Y ” , and get b matched documents . The relevance of “ Yutaka Matsuo ” and “ Hironori Tomobe ” is approximated by the Jaccard coefficient #(X ∩ Y )/#(X ∪ Y ) , say a divided by b .
If the Jaccard coefficient of a node pair is larger than the given threshold , an edge is added with its weight equal to the Jaccard coefficient . Some problems are : • There can be more than one person with the same family and
Figure 1 : Social Network of Contributors in WWW2002 . given name . Adding affiliation to the query will alleviate this problem , but degrade the coverage .
• The Jaccard coefficient generally gives a famous person few number of edges because denominator b is very large compared to numerator a . We can modify denominator b to min(#X , #Y ) . In some cases , it is more appropriate to employ a directed network representation instead of an undirected network , assigning conditional probability #(X ∩ Y )/#X to each directed edge .
It is more useful if information services can “ label ” each edge . For example , two nodes have the relation of “ colleageus of the same company , ” “ former supervisor – student , ” “ members of the same board , ” and so on . To enable this , we use a machine learning approach to find the relationship of two nodes . We collect Web pages which show a certain relationship between two people and learn characteristic features of these pages .
3 . EXAMPLE AND APPLICATION
Aside from providing a network structure for information service software , the current system outputs the network in SVG format . We can view the network using a SVG viewer .
Figure 1 is a part of the social network among contributors to WWW2002 . Around 650 people contributed to the conference , therefore we have 650 nodes in the network .
We can see each participant ’s location in the network : clusters of participants and connecters of clusters . In the future , we may be able to show the distribution of research topics superimposed on the social network , how one can efficiently expand one ’s network , and the difference and characterization of conferences from the viewpoint of a social networks .
A various information services aware of the social network are possible , such as recommendation of a person who is distant from you in the network but has similar interests , and searching for an appropriate introducer or negotiator . Furthermore , location based and text based application will be enhanced with the help of social network knowledge , eg , by refraining from suggesting a social network “ neighbor ” or associate because they already know each other well .
4 . CONCLUSION
Japanese people are relatively sensitive to hierarchical social relations with others . Therefore , background knowledge of the social network is essential for providing more personalized information . However , asking questions about the relationship with others is very intrusive . Our approach seems promising in that the social network can be obtained from the Web , i.e , an open source of knowledge . This poster is a preliminary report ; however , we will attempt to further develop an information system with consciousness of an individual ’s social context .
APPENDIX A . ADDITIONAL AUTHORS
Additional authors : Mitsuru Ishizuka ( The University of Tokyo , email : ishizuka@mivtu tokyoacjp )
B . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . C . Freeman . Centrality in social networks : Conceptual clarification . Social Networks , 1:215–239 , 1979 .
[ 2 ] M . Granovetter . Strength of weak ties . American Journal of
Sociology , 78:1360–1380 , 1973 .
[ 3 ] H . Kautz , B . Selman , and M . Shah . Referral web : Combining social networks and collaborative filtering . Communications of the ACM , 30 , 1997 .
[ 4 ] Takuichi Nishimura , Hideo Itoh , Yoshinobu Yamamoto , and
Hideyuki Nakashima . A compact battery less information terminal ( cobit ) for location based support systems . In Proceedings SPIE , number 4863B 12 , 2002 .
[ 5 ] Yasuyuki Sumi and Kenji Mase . Digital assistant for supporting conference participants : An attempt to combine mobile , ubiquitous and web computing . In Proceedings UBICOMP 2001 ( LNCS 2201 ) , pages 156–175 , 2001 . [ 6 ] M . Weiser . The computer for the twenty first century .
Scientific American , 268(3):94–104 , 1991 .
