Using Top Ranking Sentences for Web Search Result Presentation
Ryen W . White
Information Retrieval Group
Joemon M . Jose
Information Retrieval Group
Department of Computing Science
Department of Computing Science
University of Glasgow
Glasgow , Scotland . G12 8QQ .
University of Glasgow
Glasgow , Scotland . G12 8QQ .
Ian Ruthven
Department of Computer and
Information Sciences
University of Strathclyde
Glasgow , Scotland . G1 1XH . ryen@dcsglaacuk jj@dcsglaacuk ir@cisstrathacuk
ABSTRACT In this poster we propose a granular approach for presenting web search results . Sentences , taken from the top documents , are used as fine grained representations of document content and , when combined in a ranked list , to provide an overview of the set of retrieved documents . Current search engine interfaces assume users examine such results document by document . In contrast our approach groups , ranks and presents the contents of the top ranked document set . We evaluate our approach by a comparison with traditional forms of web search result presentation . Keywords Top ranking Sentences , Web Search , Visualisation 1 . INTRODUCTION Web searchers can find the formulation of queries that adequately express their information need a demanding process . However , such searchers may face even more difficulty when interpreting and assessing the relevance of the documents returned in response to the query . Users of web search engines are typically unwilling to examine large sets of individual documents and base initial judgments on what documents to view on surrogates such as titles , abstracts and URLs . These can be manually created ( eg titles or keywords ) , or automatically created ( eg summaries ) . Presenting lists of document surrogates has remained a popular method of presenting search results . Lists allow documents to be ranked in order of their estimated utility to the user . However , lists encourage users to read , interpret and assess documents and their surrogates individually . In this poster we suggest techniques that encourage a deeper examination of documents at the results interface and blur interdocument boundaries . We shift the focus of interaction from the document surrogate to the document ’s content . We compare traditional methods of producing surrogates ( such as text fragments and titles ) against a new method of presenting search results ; sentences taken from the retrieved documents , ranked on how closely they match the user ’s query . This set of top ranking sentences can be used to form an overview of the returned document set . 2 . MOTIVATION Web search engines are intended to help people find information that is relevant to completing a task . It is important therefore to design interfaces that maximise the amount of useful information users can obtain within a search . information need [ 1 ] .
Searchers use textual queries to communicate their need with the search system . The query is only an approximate description of the Web documents are ranked algorithmically based on this query and returned in a list to the user . These may not be entirely relevant , and it is the relevant parts that contribute most to satisfying the user ’s information need . By ranking documents we assume that all of a document conforms to relevance/matching criteria . This assumption is often incorrect as documents can have irrelevant parts . Research into summarisation and visualisation have tackled this problem , but still return document lists to users . In our approach , we use a technique known as sentence extraction to present whole sentences to users , taken from the top thirty documents in the retrieved document set . These sentences provide a high level of granularity , removing the restriction of document boundaries and shifting the focus from the document to the information it contains . This means that users are not forced to access information through documents but through the actual content of documents . Through ranking this information with respect to the query , the user is given a query specific overview of the content of the returned set . A document list is biased towards the user ’s information need at the document level . Documents that are a close match to the user ’s query appear near the top of the list . In our approach we bias at the sentence level . Sentences that are a close match to the user ’s query are shown near the top of a ranked list of sentences . In the next section we describe an interface that implements the concepts discussed in the poster so far . 3 . INTERFACE The interface uses the Google1 commercial search engine to search the Internet . In response to a query submitted by the user , the system returns a ranked list of document titles , abstracts and URLs , thirty in total . Each document in this list is then downloaded and all sentences from each document extracted . Each sentence is assigned a score , using an algorithm similar to that in [ 2 ] . This uses factors such as position of the sentence in document and the presence of any emphasised words . In addition sentences receive additional scores depending on the proportion of query terms contained within the sentence . This query biasing component biases the scoring mechanism to sentences that use words contained within the user ’s query .
1 http://wwwgooglecom
It then pools the top four scoring sentences from each document , and ranks all sentences in a ‘global’ list . This list is a querybiased overview of the returned document set . The sentences are shown individually , with query terms highlighted . Users are not shown a list of retrieved document titles and URLs : only the list of top ranking sentences . Initially there is no direct association between the sentence and its source document , ie there is no indication to the user of which document supplied each sentence . To view the association , the user must move the mouse pointer over a sentence . When this occurs , the sentence is highlighted and a window pops up next to it . Displaying this window next to the sentence , instead of in a fixed position on the screen , is intended to make the sentence document relationship more lucid . The interface is shown in Figure 1 ( with the sentences and popup window marked and . respectively ) .
.
Figure 1 : Top ranking sentences results interface
In the popup window the user is shown the document title , URL and the rank position and content of any other sentences from that document that occur in the list of top ranking sentences . If no other sentences appear an appropriate message is shown . To visit a document the user must click the highlighted sentence , or any sentences in the pop up window . It is the sentences ( content ) that drive the interaction . When the user has clicked a sentence and visited that document , all sentences from that document are marked to reflect this . We conducted an evaluation , where we compared this granular top ranking sentences approach ( experimental system ) with two systems using document lists ; one is a traditional web search engine and the other is similar , but with substantially longer query biased summaries ( up to four sentences ) for each document . These two systems are referred to as baselines in the remainder of this poster . This evaluation is described in the next section . 4 . EVALUATION A total of 18 subjects took part in the evaluation , each completed 3 tasks ( fact search , decision search , background search ) , one on each of the 3 search systems . Tasks and systems were allocated according to a Greco Latin square design . Each subject was given 10 minutes to complete each task , although the subjects could terminate the search early if they felt they had completed the task . The time restriction was imposed to ensure consistency between subjects . We elicited subject opinion using informal interviews
In and questionnaires ( before the first task , after each task and after all tasks ) . We used semantic differentials , Likert scales and openended questions to collect this data . Background system logging recorded subject interaction with each search interface . Subjects were divided into two groups : inexperienced and experienced . This classification was made on the basis of the subjects’ responses to questions on the level of their computing , Internet and web searching experience . 5 . RESULTS & DISCUSSION We investigated whether using sentences , extracted from top ranked documents and presented in a query biased ranked list would be more effective than traditional forms of web search result presentation . Our results show that our approach is liked by users and increases the effectiveness of their searching . For example , top ranking sentences reduced task completion time and increased the number of tasks that were completed . Overall , 16 of the 18 subjects ( 9 experienced and 7 inexperienced ) preferred the top ranking sentences approach and found it more helpful , useful and effective than both baselines . To make sound judgments on the effectiveness of a submitted query , searchers should be able to assess the actual content of the document set , not simply document surrogates . the experimental system subjects were more aware of this content and document titles became less useful as a result . Presenting a list of top ranking sentences encouraged subjects to view documents outwith the first page of results . On the baseline systems subjects would rather reformulate and resubmit their queries than deeply peruse the documents returned to them or click the ‘next’ button . By doing so they discard potentially relevant documents without giving them due consideration . The document list returned is only an algorithmic match to the user ’s query . Unless the information need is very specific the system may struggle to provide a ranking that is a match for the user ’s information need . This problem is amplified if the system only ranks whole documents as small highly relevant sections may reside in documents with a low overall ranking . In this poster we present an approach for presenting web search results that shifts the focus of perusal and interaction away from the document surrogates , such as document titles , abstracts and URLs , to the actual content of the document . The results of our evaluation have shown , with statistical significance , that ranking the content of the retrieved document set rather than the documents themselves leads to increased searcher efficiency , effectiveness and personal preference . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank the experimental subjects , their comments and enthusiasm were very much appreciated . The work reported in this poster is funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council grant number GR/R74642/01 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Taylor , RS ‘Question negotiation and information seeking in libraries’ . College and Research Libraries . 29 . pp . 178194 . 1968 .
[ 2 ] White , RW , Jose , JM and Ruthven , I . ‘A task oriented study on effects of query biased summarisation in web searching’ . Information Processing and Management . 2003 . in press . influencing the
