WebML+ in a nutshell : Modeling architectural level information flows
Page 1 of 3
WebML+ in a nutshell : Modeling architectural level information flows
David Lowe , Rachatrin Tongrungrojana
Faculty of Engineering , University of Technology , Sydney
PO Box 123 , Broadway , NSW 2007 Australia ph : +61 2 9514 2526
{david.lowe , rachatrin.tongrungrojana} @utseduau {david.lowe , rachatrin.tongrungrojana} @utseduau {david.lowe , rachatrin.tongrungrojana} {david.lowe , rachatrin.tongrungrojana} @utseduau @utseduau
ABSTRACT
One aspect of the development of Web enabled systems that has received increasing attention is information modeling , particularly with respect to aspects such as navigation models and their relationships to the underlying content . These models have , however , typically focused on modeling at a relatively low level and have failed to address higher level aspects , such as architectural and even business process modeling . In this paper we introduce a set of formal extensions to an existing modeling language WebML that facilitates information modeling at this higher level of abstraction . We argue that these extensions will provide a clearer connection between an understanding of business models and processes , and the lower level designs typically represented in existing models .
Keywords
Web , Information Architecture , Design , WebML , Model
1 . INTRODUCTION
From its first introduction in the early 1990s , the Web has continued to evolve at a fast pace . Web enabled systems are becoming increasingly crucial to almost all sectors in society [ 12121212 ] . This has been accompanied by a rapid increase in the complexity of these applications .
Various approaches have been developed or adapted for representing this complexity . At lower levels we have models of the detailed system design . Functional design models are relatively well established , with the dominant model ( arguably ) now UML [ 2222 , 9999 ] . In terms of modeling the information design , the situation is somewhat less mature . Typically we wish to model not only the information itself , but also the relationship between the underlying content and the user perceived views of that content , and the interactions with those views ( such as navigational aspects ) . Whilst existing modeling languages ( such as UML ) can be used to represent the functional aspects , they are not as effective at representing these informational aspects . The result has been the emergence of a number of informational modeling approaches specifically developed for Web ( or hypermedia ) applications . Example approaches , such as RMM [ 7777 ] and OOHDM [ 11111111 ] , and more recently WebML [ 3333 ] and adaptations of UML [ 1111 , 4444 , 8888 ] , have provided the ability to model the underpinning content and ( to a limited extent ) the way in which we interact with this information . However , these approaches still have various limitations . For instance , all current approaches lack the ability to model Web systems at higher levels of abstraction and to link effectively with models of the business model and processes ( a good example of the latter that is relevant to the Web is the e3value business modeling method [ 5555] ) .
Work on information architectures [ 10101010 ] address these issues to a limited extent , though the notations and models used are rarely consistent with those used for lower level information modeling , and as a result these are rarely integrated effectively . Similarly , whilst information architectures often address the development of an understanding of user interactions and engagement with a site [ 6666 ] and the way in which this influences the information organization , the nature of the information exchange and the internal inter relationships between these information domains is often overlooked or not modeled explicitly . Nor do these models usually provide an effective consideration of the information environment in which the system exists .
We propose an extension to an existing modeling language WebML [ 3333 ] that addresses these limitations . We refer to this extended WebML model as WebML+ . A key point in these extensions is that the WebML+ approach is built around the notion of information flows at the level of understanding business processes . This enables the models to form a link between higher level models ( specifically , business models ) and lower level design models a characteristic that is crucial in Web development , where the systems under development often lead to fundamental changes in business processes and models .
2 . WEBML+
WebML+ enables developers to express the core features of a system at a higher level , without committing to detailed architectural designs . It can be considered as an extension to WebML ( see [ 3333 ] and wwwwebmlorg wwwwebmlorg ) The purpose of WebML+ modeling is to define both the internal and the wwwwebmlorg wwwwebmlorg external information flows within a Web system . As with WebML , we have defined both a graphical notation and an XML based formal notation for representing WebML+ models ( though we do not show the formal XML DTD here ) . The graphical notation is designed to allow it to be effectively communicated to non technical members of development teams .
Figure 1 shows an example of a WebML+ model for a hypothetical example : FreeMail is a provider of free web based e mail that allows users to send and receive messages through a Web interface . In this example we have 3 participating actors : the FreeMail organisation itself as an internal actor , and two external actors , users and advertising companies . Internal actors such as FreeMail manually provide information directly to the systemin this case a set of user policies and rules to the system . With the external actors , advertising companies provides advertisements to the system while it receives invoice information from the system ( which is , in turn , derived from the advertisements themselves and the number of impressions of the advertisement ) . Users provides outgoing emails as well as user information to the system while they receive incoming Emails , storage usage information , and user information and profiles . http://www2003org/cdrom/papers/poster/p003/p3 Lowehtml
6/07/2010
WebML+ in a nutshell : Modeling architectural level information flows
Page 2 of 3 test
Figure 1 : Typical Web system represented using WebML+
So , let us consider what is represented in the system . The large dashed geometrical polygon represents the organisation ( ie it does not differentiate between those elements that are internal to the system and those elements that are outside the scope of the system but managed by internal business processes ) . This encloses a set of information units , which are coherent and cohesive domains of information that are managed by , or related to , the system . All information within a single unit shares a common context and a common derivation ( this is explained shortly ) They do not map directly to pages or sets of pages a single web page may contain partial information from multiple units . Similarly , an information unit may be distributed over multiple pages . Different types of information units are represented graphically using different types of icons .
Some information units are provided directly by actors . For example advertisements are provided by advertising companies , and user policy and rules are provided by FreeMail . However , many information units are derived from other units rather than being provided explicitly . These derivations ( shown as triangles with incoming and outgoing arrows ) capture the inter relationships between the information units . For example , presented Emails are derived from the incoming Email database , user information database and the advertisement database .
3 . CONCLUSIONS
WebML+ is an architectural level specification language for defining Web systems based on an extension to WebML . WebML+ stresses the definition of flows of information which the developer can decompose into WebML models , and hence provides a mechanism for linking abstract system modeling to the detailed design models in WebML . We argue that our approach also provides a clearer view of an information architecture than the typical site maps that are often adopted . In particular , this approach clarifies the information environment within which the system exists and the inter relationships between the various sources and sinks of information . This is also an important step is providing a clearer connection between the information and functional perspectives of a system . Ongoing work is focusing on refining the model ( including understanding different types of information provision and derivation ) and clarifying the relationships with the business models and processes . We have also undertaken experiments of the model aimed at evaluating the extent to which users are able to understand a system based on a WebML+ model as compared to based on a purely textual description . Full details of the formal WebML+ model and the outcomes of the evaluation will be reported elsewhere .
4 . REFERENCES
1 . Baresi , , ( Hawaii , USA , 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , ( Hawaii , in 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences L . , Garzotto , F . and Paolini , P . , Extending UML for Modeling Web Applications . in Baresi , L . , Garzotto , F . and Paolini , P . , Extending UML for Modeling Web Applications . USA , , ( Hawaii , in L . , Garzotto , F . and Paolini , P . , Extending UML for Modeling Web Applications . Baresi , Baresi , L . , Garzotto , F . and Paolini , P . , Extending UML for Modeling Web Applications . in , ( Hawaii , USA , USA , 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2001 ) . 2001 ) . 2001 ) . 2001 ) . 2 . Booch , G . , Rumbaugh , J . and Jacobson , I . The Unified Modelling Language User Guide . Addison Wesley , 1999 . Booch , G . , Rumbaugh , J . and Jacobson , I . The Unified Modelling Language User Guide . Addison Wesley , 1999 . Booch , G . , Rumbaugh , J . and Jacobson , I . The Unified Modelling Language User Guide . Addison Booch , G . , Rumbaugh , J . and Jacobson , I . The Unified Modelling Language User Guide . Addison Wesley , 1999 . Wesley , 1999 . ( WebML ) : a modeling language for designing Web sites . in Proceedings of Ceri , S . , Fraternali , P . and Bongio , A . , Web Modeling Language ( WebML ) : a modeling language for designing Web sites . in 3 . Ceri , S . , Fraternali , P . and Bongio , A . , Web Modeling Language WWW9 Conference , , , , Proceedings of WWW9 Conference ( WebML ) : a modeling language for designing Web sites . in Ceri , S . , Fraternali , P . and Bongio , A . , Web Modeling Language Ceri , S . , Fraternali , P . and Bongio , A . , Web Modeling Language ( WebML ) : a modeling language for designing Web sites . in WWW9 Conference Proceedings of Proceedings of WWW9 Conference http://www2003org/cdrom/papers/poster/p003/p3 Lowehtml
6/07/2010
WebML+ in a nutshell : Modeling architectural level information flows
Page 3 of 3
( Amsterdam , 2000 ) . ( Amsterdam , 2000 ) . ( Amsterdam , 2000 ) . ( Amsterdam , 2000 ) . . Addison Wesley , 1999 . Building Web Applications with UML . Addison Conallen , J . Building Web Applications with UML 4 . Conallen , J . Wesley , 1999 . Conallen , J . . Addison Conallen , J . . Addison Wesley , 1999 . Wesley , 1999 . Building Web Applications with UML Building Web Applications with UML Gordijn , J . and Akkermans , JM e3333 value : Design and , 16 ( 4 ) . 11 11 11 11 17 . 17 . 17 . 17 . 5 . Gordijn , J . and Akkermans , JM e IEEE Intelligent Systems , 16 ( 4 ) . Business Models . IEEE Intelligent Systems Evaluation of e Business Models . value : Design and Evaluation of e Evaluation of e Gordijn , J . and Akkermans , JM e , 16 ( 4 ) . Business Models . value : Design and Gordijn , J . and Akkermans , JM e value : Design and Evaluation of e Business Models . , 16 ( 4 ) . IEEE Intelligent Systems IEEE Intelligent Systems Theory : An Inductive Design Process . Journal of the American Society for 6 . Haverty , M . Information Architecture Without Internal Haverty , M . Information Architecture Without Internal Theory : An Inductive Design Process . Information Science & Technology , , , , Journal of the American Society for Information Science & Technology Haverty , M . Information Architecture Without Internal Haverty , M . Information Architecture Without Internal Theory : An Inductive Design Process . Theory : An Inductive Design Process . Information Science & Technology Journal of the American Society for Journal of the American Society for Information Science & Technology 53 ( 10 ) . 839 . 53 ( 10 ) . 839 . 53 ( 10 ) . 839 . 53 ( 10 ) . 839 . Isakowitz , T . , Stohr , E . and Balasubramanian , P . RMM : A Methodology Communications of the ACM , 38 ( 8 ) . for Structured Hypermedia Design . Communications of the ACM Isakowitz , T . , Stohr , E . and Balasubramanian , P . RMM : A Methodology for Structured Hypermedia Design . , 38 ( 8 ) . 34 34 34 34 44 . 44 . 44 . 44 . , 38 ( 8 ) . for Structured Hypermedia Design . Isakowitz , T . , Stohr , E . and Balasubramanian , P . RMM : A Methodology Isakowitz , T . , Stohr , E . and Balasubramanian , P . RMM : A Methodology for Structured Hypermedia Design . , 38 ( 8 ) . Communications of the ACM Communications of the ACM 7 . based Web Engineering . in Second International Workshop on Web UML based Web Engineering . in Koch , N . and Kraus , A . , The expressive Power of UML 8 . Koch , N . and Kraus , A . , The expressive Power of oriented Software Technology Second International Workshop on Web oriented Software Technology Koch , N . and Kraus , A . , The expressive Power of based Web Engineering . in UML Koch , N . and Kraus , A . , The expressive Power of UML based Web Engineering . in oriented Second International Workshop on Web Second International Workshop on Web oriented Software Technology Software Technology ( IWWOST2 ) , ( Malaga , Spain , 2002 ) . , ( Malaga , Spain , 2002 ) . ( IWWOST2 ) , ( Malaga , Spain , 2002 ) . , ( Malaga , Spain , 2002 ) . ( IWWOST2 ) ( IWWOST2 ) 9 . OMG . OMG Unified Modeling Language Specification , Version 1.4 , 2001 . OMG . OMG Unified Modeling Language Specification , Version 1.4 , 2001 . OMG . OMG Unified Modeling Language Specification , Version 1.4 , 2001 . OMG . OMG Unified Modeling Language Specification , Version 1.4 , 2001 . 10 . Rosenfeld , L . and Morville , P . for the World Wide Web . O'Reilly , 1998 . Rosenfeld , L . and Morville , P . Information Architecture . O'Reilly , 1998 . Information Architecture for the World Wide Web Rosenfeld , L . and Morville , P . Rosenfeld , L . and Morville , P . . O'Reilly , 1998 . . O'Reilly , 1998 . for the World Wide Web Information Architecture Information Architecture for the World Wide Web the ACM , 38 ( 8 ) . 45 Oriented Hypermedia Design Model . Communications of Rossi , G . The Object Oriented Hypermedia Design Model . Schwabe , D . and Rossi , G . The Object Schwabe , D . and , 38 ( 8 ) . 45 46 . 46 . 46 . 46 . Communications of the ACM , 38 ( 8 ) . 45 Oriented Hypermedia Design Model . Rossi , G . The Object Schwabe , D . and Schwabe , D . and Rossi , G . The Object Oriented Hypermedia Design Model . , 38 ( 8 ) . 45 the ACM Communications of Communications of the ACM 11 . Trenches . Addison Wesley Professional , 2002 . GA Real Web Project Management : Case Studies and Best Practices from the Shelford , TJ and Remillard , GA Shelford , TJ and Remillard , . Addison Wesley Professional , 2002 . Real Web Project Management : Case Studies and Best Practices from the Trenches GA Shelford , TJ and Remillard , Shelford , TJ and Remillard , GA . Addison Wesley Professional , 2002 . . Addison Wesley Professional , 2002 . Trenches Real Web Project Management : Case Studies and Best Practices from the Real Web Project Management : Case Studies and Best Practices from the Trenches 12 . http://www2003org/cdrom/papers/poster/p003/p3 Lowehtml
6/07/2010
