Learning Resources Collections : completeness and compactness issues
D . Rovinskiy
Masters course student Rovins@yandex.ru
K . Synytsya
Senior Researcher Kath@umodkievua
International Research and Training Center UNESCO for Information Technologies and Systems ,
40 , prospect Academica Glushkova , 03680 , Kyiv , Ukraine
+38 (044) 266 63 11
ABSTRACT Features of a quality learning resource collection are discussed and some measures that may be helpful for collection maintenance and update are proposed . Keywords Distance education , learning resource collection , learning resource , metadata space , quality assessment .
1 . INTRODUCTION In distance education , one of the key issues determining the quality of learning is availability of necessary learning resources for all participants ( students , teachers , educational administrators etc ) To support learning process for a specific course a learning resource collection ( LRC ) which consists of resources descriptions and corresponding management tools is created . Many important problems related to resource management , including their search , evaluation , delivery , transformation , etc . , have been studied recently , such as standard methods for resource description [ 1,2 ] ; extraction and processing of reusable multimedia objects [ 3 ] ; automatic adaptation of learning material to the user ’s behavior [ 4,5 ] and others . While creating courses for the International Distance Learning Center , we found that quality of each resource in the LRC , its correspondence to the topic of collection , and meeting the format requirements will not guarantee that the LRC will be suitable for a course . Some problems are invisible in small collections and become transparent only when the collection becomes large and unbalanced . To understand why a set of quality resources may form a “ bad ” LRC some study of the collection features is necessary .
2 . COMPLETENESS AND COMPACTNESS Let ’s introduce concepts of completeness and compactness for LRC . Any course is characterized by a set of learning objectives describing knowledge and skills that must be mastered by students . We will further consider rather small learning objectives , like “ correct use of articles ” in some English course . If a LRC contains for each course objective all necessary resources of all necessary types , this LRC will be said to meet completeness condition . Numerous heterogeneous collection resources are somehow connected , as they may support the same learning process . However , some resources may in a certain sense be less interconnected than others . It may make sense to isolate loosely connected resources into a separate LRC . If a LRC is formed in a way that its division into several collections with their own topics , tasks and metadata will not improve resource management , then compactness condition is said to be valid for this LRC . Learning resources ( in standards framework called “ objects ” ) are often compared with LEGO blocks . If resources are building blocks , then management of a LRC may reflect the process of constructing the Great Chinese Wall . As the Wall , the LRC is a huge complex structure that should be compact , integral , diverse , non redundant , and should be dynamically reconstructed , when new tasks arise .
3 . FEATURES OF THE LRC Diversity . As the Wall , a LRC consists of plentitude of different interconnected objects . The LRC for a course must contain resources for each of its learning objectives . If the course covers some topic , then the following resources should be contained in the LRC : a number of articles describing the topic from different viewpoints , examples that illustrate some issues , tests and tasks to evaluate its mastery , etc . Resources may be of different types , including texts , multimedia , simulations , computer based training programs , etc . Part of these resources may be contained in the local LRC , others may be available through the references and belong to “ external ” environment . Variety of types is necessary to diversify presentation of the learning material : if the LRC for Pythagorean ’s theorem consists of solely text materials discussing the theorem without graphic illustrations , tasks or formula , it would hardly help the learner to master the theorem . Completeness without redundancy . The firmest wall will not stop the enemy if it is not complete . The best learning materials for some topics will not help a student to master the whole course if other topics are not covered by the LRC . However , there is no need to keep plenty of similar electronic materials , as it will complicate the management . Compactness . If Shakespeare tragedies will be placed into the library for physics , they will not be requested even if people will be aware of its existence . The same way as some settlements of the medieval China could be protected without the Wall , some learning objects may be combined in separate LRC . Evolution . The Wall should be updated and reconstructed for different reasons . Similarly , a LRC is in no way a static structure . Some resources may become unnecessary due to the change of the collection structure , even if the course objectives will still be valid . Change of the learning objectives will inevitably violate the completeness of the collection , and appearance of the new resources may violate its compactness .
4 . MEASURES FOR FEATURES According to the psychosemantics rules , collection content as a combination of all its resources may be represented as multidimensional Euclid space , where coordinates are determined by the metadata axes [ 6 ] . Each metadata element represents one dimension , metrics for this dimension is determined by a set of permissible values and “ distance ” between them . If metadata elements are independent ( as title and author ) , then the axes are orthogonal , and a learning resource could be described by its minimal number [ 7 ] . Metrics for each metadata element determines a degree of closeness between different values from the space of permissible values . Metrics depend on the type of this space – for ordered set and taxonomies the metrics is based on the features of these structures . In other cases , expert assessment is necessary , which may vary for the same dimension depending on the purpose of collection : in the Renaissance timeframe da Vinci is close to Michelangelo , but in the aviation history – to the Wright brothers . Sometimes no ordering meaningful for the leaning process may be suggested . Then this dimension may be excluded from the integral analysis . Such methods as a multidimensional scaling may be used for determining a positioning and a degree of closeness between the resources . Each learning resource is characterized by a fuzzy set that represents its description in the metadata space . xx , 1
2
, , x
Ν
) ; i i i
I
,1 = x
( ~ ; =
)~( } x A [ ];1;0 →
,~ { A x = µ ~:)~( x x µ an element of a fuzzy set , ( ix~ x 1
A
,where N – a number of metadata axes with introduced metrics , certainty that current description of the resource is correct .
The distance along the dimension may be defined as : y m )~,~( yx i
BA ) ,( x mi )( mj )(
α
−
=
=
ρ
ρ
( m m m j
Then an integral distance is :
, ,
Nx
)
– the element ’s coordinates ,
I
– a number of elements in the fuzzy set
A
,
Aµ
– a membership function for the resource
A that determines a
; ) 2
[ ];1;0
∈
α m
)
( int
BA ,
= x ( α = int 1 ] [ k ;1;0 ∈ k
ρ
);~,~( yx i j int y ) − N ,1 j ( ;
1 )
2 i 1)( =
+
+
α
( x
N
Ni )(
− y
(
Nj )
; ) 2
ρ
ρ α kα
– weight coefficients , determining dependencies between metadata dimensions and their relative value ; i yx , j
–
,where A elements of objects )~,~( yx i
µ
AB j
B and µ =
A
, that are selected according to conditions : *)~( x i
[ ];1;0
)~( y
∈
µ
≥
ε
ε
;
B j
– predefined threshold probability that determines a boundary between “ correct ” and “ wrong ” descriptions of the
ε where resource . In other words , the distance is defined as a set of all such Euclid distances ( with account of non orthogonality of the axes ) , the probability of which exceeds the threshold . The processing starts with maximum values of ε ensuring high reliability of the results . Considering small subsets of the collection resources and distance between them , one can reveal situations where compactness or completeness conditions are violated and take necessary steps to improve the collection . For instance , if integral distance between two resources is too large , this part of the collection should be filled in with some other resource situated between them , or one of the resources may form a separate collection . 5 . CONCLUSION The suggested approach allows for answering the following questions . What resources are necessary to complete the collection ? What resources are surplus for the collection causing information redundancy and damaging search results ? What subsets of resources are “ far ” from current collection and should be separated into a different collection for better management ? What are changes of the collection profile due to the course modification , and thus how the collection should be restructured for preservation of its qualities ?
6 . REFERENCES
1 .
IEEE 1484121 2002 Learning Object v1 Metadata Final Draft , http://ltscieeeorg/doc/wg12/LOM_1484_12_1_v1_Final_Draftpdf ISO/IEC JTC1 SC 36 . Information technology for learning , education and training . http://jtc1sc36.org
2 . 3 . ADL Technical Team , SCORM Specification V1.2 , http://wwwadlnetorg/indexcfm?fuseaction=scormabt 4 . Brusilovsky , P . , Adaptive hypermedia . User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction , 11 ( 1/2 ) pp . 87 110 , 2001 . 5 . De Bra , P . , Calvi , L . , AHA! An open Adaptive Hypermedia Architecture . The New Review of Hypermedia and
Multimedia , 1998 .
6 . Wason T . , Metadata spaces . 1998 . Available : http://wwwimsprojectorg/technical/metadata/History/did054html 7 . Wiley D . , An intelligent method for searching metadata spaces . 1999 . Available : http://wileybyuedu/search/if search.pdf
