CU VOCAL Web Service : A Text to speech Synthesis Web
Service for Voice enabled Web mediated Applications
Helen M . MENG* , Tin Hang LO* , Chi Kin KEUNG* , Man Cheuk HO* , Wai Kit LO* and PC CHING**
*Human Computer Communications Laboratory ,
Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management ,
**Digital Processing Laboratory ,
Department of Electronic Engineering , The Chinese University of Hong Kong ,
Hong Kong SAR , China
{hmmeng , thlo , ckkeung , mcho , wklo@secuhkeduhk , pcching@eecuhkeduhk}
ABSTRACT This paper presents the implementation of the CU VOCAL Web service , one of the first Chinese text to speech synthesis Web services . The CU VOCAL Web service can be easily integrated with other Web services to develop innovative Web mediated applications . We have developed a novel automatic voice alert system in the stocks domain by integrating CU VOCAL and several other Web services . This system can monitor a real time financial information feed for alert conditions pre specified in the user ’s personalized profile , and trigger synthesized spoken messages to alert the user via the ( mobile ) telephone . Keywords text to speech , Web services , interoperability 1 . INTRODUCTION A Web service is a modular software application that provides services over the Web with the use of the eXtensible Markup Language ( XML ) . One can develop innovative Web mediated applications ( applications that have access to the Web ) by integrating different Web services across platforms and systems . Text to speech ( TTS ) synthesis aims to generate synthetic speech based on input text . TTS is an essential component technology in spoken dialog systems ( SDS ) that supports human computer interaction in terms of a conversation . We have developed a number of SDS including CU FOREX [ 1 ] – a trilingual ( Cantonese , Putonghua and English)1 system that allows the user to ask for real time foreign exchange rates over the telephone ; and ISIS [ 2 ] – a mixed initiative spoken dialog system in the stocks domain . Both systems incorporate CU VOCAL [ 3,4,5 ] , a TTS engine that can generate highly natural Cantonese speech based on Chinese textual input . This paper reports on our recent work in implementing CU VOCAL as a Web service . To the best of our knowledge , this is one of the first TTS Web services . It eases development of voice enabled Web mediated applications since it does not require local installation of resource demanding TTS engines . Hence the TTS Web service is particularly suited for offering voice capability to thin clients . 2 . BACKGROUND ON WEB SERVICES A Web service is a software system identified by a URI , whose public interfaces and bindings are defined and described using
1 These are the languages used in Hong Kong . Cantonese is a major dialect of Chinese predominant in Hong Kong , South China and many overseas Chinese communities . Putonghua is the official Chinese dialect . language and platform
XML [ 6 ] . XML is the core technology in Web services for data typing and structuring of interaction messages . A Web service enhances interoperability among software applications . A Web service is also self describing and can be published , located , and invoked across the Web . Hence Web services facilitate the development of distributed applications by adopting a loosely coupled Web programming model . Systems developed in terms of Web services are independent . Additionally , they are easily scalable and extensible by establishing connections to new Web services when necessary .
Figure 1 depicts the Web service architecture that involves a Web service provider , Web service client and discovery agencies . The Web service provider executes and hosts access to the services . This is achieved via a WSDL2 service description [ 7 ] that publishes the service with its API3 to discovery agencies . The exposed API facilitates interoperability by allowing Web service clients to invoke other Web services at runtime . Through these discovery agencies , a Web service client can find the Web services that it needs . Web services can interact with one another by means of SOAP4 [ 8 ] , which acts as the messaging protocol to transport XML data .
Figure 1 . The Service oriented architecture of Web services [ 6 ] .
3 . CU VOCAL : A CANTONESE TEXT TO
Web Service
Discovery Agencies
Web Service
Provider
Service descriptions
Service description
Interact
Find
Publish
Client
SPEECH ENGINE
CU VOCAL is a Cantonese TTS engine that can generate highly natural and intelligible synthetic speech [ 3,4,5 ] . This is achieved by a syllable based concatenative approach that considers both coarticulatory context and tonal context . This approach is
2 Web Services Description Language 3 Application Programming Interface 4 Simple Object Access Protocol portable across Chinese dialects , eg from Cantonese to Putonghua . The approach can also be optimized for specific constrained domains ( eg stocks , air travel , etc . ) in order to improve the quality of the synthesized speech .
The Chinese language presents special challenges for TTS . Chinese text consists of a string of characters and each character is pronounced as a syllable . The character to syllable mapping is many to many . A Chinese word may contain one or more characters but there is no explicit word delimiter . Hence an input Chinese text string needs to be tokenized into a word sequence , and the lexical context helps determine the correct syllable pronunciation among the multiple possible candidates . It should also be noted that Chinese word tokenization/segmentation contains much ambiguity , and higher level linguistic knowledge is needed the multiple possible segmentations . CU VOCAL has incorporated elaborate natural language technologies for processing the input Chinese text , in a procedure known as text normalization . Appropriate word tokenization helps automatic assignment of appropriate pause durations at specific word boundaries . This is important for prosodic control in the synthesized speech . In addition , CU VOCAL can appropriately verbalize special data objects ( eg abbreviations , dates and times ) and handle mixed language textual input ( between Chinese and English ) that often appears in Hong Kong news text ( eg in URLs , email addresses , English words and acronyms ) . 4 . DEVELOPING THE CU VOCAL WEB to disambiguate among
SERVICE
The CU VOCAL Web service is developed by defining an API that encompasses the executable library of core engine . This is achieved by making use of Microsoft ’s Visual Studio NET The .NET framework handles all procedures common to Web services development , including the generation of WSDL for exposing the API . Synthesized speech is encoded as a base64 string in order to be transferred from the CU VOCAL TTS Web service to client applications as an XML response by means of the SOAP protocol .
The TTS Web service needs to transmit abundant audio data over the Web to client applications . However , the existing Web service architecture requires client applications to wait until all audio data is received before playing the audio . This often introduces significant time lags in the application . Since SOAP currently does not support data streaming , we have implemented a Web service for audio data streaming to integrate with the CU VOCAL Web service . Consequently , when an application invokes the CU VOCAL Web service , synthesized speech can be progressively generated and transferred to the client applications . 5 . A NOVEL VOICE ALERT SYSTEM In order to demonstrate the desirability of a TTS Web service , we have developed a novel voice alert system in the stocks domain . Voice alert systems should be applicable to domains with dynamic and time critical information .
Figure 2 shows the architecture of the CU VOCAL voice alert system . It integrates the CU VOCAL Web service with four other Web services : 1 ) one that loads user specified alert profiles ; 2 ) one that retrieves real time financial information ; 3 ) one that triggers alert telephone calls and 4 ) one that streams encoded synthesized audio from the CU VOCAL Web service to the telephone alert Web service . For the sake of simplicity , Figure 2 shows only the CU VOCAL and telephone alert Web services .
Voice Alert System
2 ) Alert message
( text )
3 ) Synthesized speech
1 ) User inputs information alert profile via browser : financial index ,
CU VOCAL Web Service
Telephony Alert
Web Service
5 ) User receives alert message through telephone
4 ) Voice message , phone nos . alert condition and telephone number system that integrates several Web services .
Figure 2 . System architecture of the CU VOCAL voice alert
To use the CU VOCAL voice alert system , users can input personalized alert profiles via a browser based interface . The profile comprises of a financial index , its alert condition ( ie above or below a pre specified index level ) and the alert telephone number(s ) . The voice alert system will then monitor the real time financial index captured from a satellite downlink . When the alert condition is met , the system will generate a textual alert message that contains the index name and its real time level , invoke the CU VOCAL Web service to generate a spoken form of this alert message and then pass the synthesized speech to the telephone alert Web service .
6 . POSSIBLE FUTURE EXTENSIONS The CU VOCAL voice alert system can serve as a reference implementation for integrating a TTS Web service in webmediated applications . Voice alert systems can be used in other scenarios , eg dynamically changing flight arrival information , appointment reminders , reminder for book return to the libraries , etc . The CU VOCAL Web service can also be used in voiceenabled applications for the visually impaired , such as Web page reading , reading weather reports and news , etc . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was partly funded by the Innovation and Technology Fund from the Hong Kong SAR Government ( ITS/117/01 ) and a donation from Microsoft Research . We thank Kuansan Wang , Eric Chang , Michael Leung and Peter Ty from Microsoft for their input and contributions . We thank Reuters Hong Kong for providing the real time data feed via satellite . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Meng , H . , Lee , S . , and Wai , C . CU FOREX : A Bilingual Spoken Dialog System for the Foreign Exchange Domain . Proc . of ICASSP 2000 . [ 2 ] Meng , H . et . al . ISIS : A Multilingual Spoken Dialog System Developed with CORBA and KQML Agents . Proc . of ICSLP 2000 . [ 3 ] Fung , T . Y . and Meng , H . Concatenating Syllables for Response Generation in Domain Specific Applications . In Proc . of ICASSP 2000 . [ 4 ] Meng , H . et . al . CU VOCAL : Corpus based Syllable Concatenation for Chinese Speech Synthesis across Domains and Dialects . Proc . of ICSLP 2002 . [ 5 ] CU Vocal homepage . http:// wwwsecuhkeduhk/ cuvocal . [ 6 ] W3C Web Services Architecture http:// wwww3org/TR/ws arch/ [ 7 ] W3C Web http:// wwww3org/ TR/ wsdl [ 8 ] W3C SOAP Version 1.2 Part 1 : Messaging Framework . http:// wwww3org/ TR/ soap12 part1
Services Description
Language
( WSDL ) .
