A User driven and Quality oriented Visualization for Mining Association Rules
Julien Blanchard , Fabrice Guillet , Henri Briand IRIN – Polytech'Nantes – University of Nantes
La Chantrerie – BP50609
44306 Nantes cedex 3 France
{julien.blanchard , fabrice.guillet , henribriand}@polytechuniv nantesfr
Abstract
On account of the enormous amounts of rules that can be produced by data mining algorithms , knowledge validation is one of the most problematic steps in an association rule discovery process . In order to find relevant knowledge for decision making , the user needs to really rummage through the rules . Visualization can be very beneficial to support him/her in this task by improving the intelligibility of the large rule sets and enabling the user to navigate inside them . In this article , we propose to answer the association rule validation problem by designing a human centered visualization method for the rule rummaging task . This new approach based on a specific rummaging model relies on rule interestingness measures and on interactive rule subset implemented our focusing and mining . We have representation by developing a first experimental prototype called ARVis .
1 . Introduction
Among the knowledge models used in Knowledge Discovery in Databases ( KDD ) , association rules [ 1 ] have become a major concept and received significant research attention . These rules are implicative tendencies of the form X→Y where X and Y are conjunctions of database items ( boolean variables ) . One of most problematic steps in an association rule discovery process is the postprocessing of the rules , ie the interpretation , evaluation and validation of the rules after their extraction . Indeed the data mining algorithms can produce enormous amounts of rules . In practice , it is very tedious for the user ( a decision maker specialized in the data studied ) to find interesting knowledge for decision making in a corpus that can hold hundreds of thousands of rules or even millions of rules with large business databases . This problem is due to the unsupervised nature of association rule discovery : the user does not make his/her goals explicit and does not specify any endogenous variable .
Three kinds of approaches aim at helping the user appropriate the bulks of association rules : reducing the number of rules with interestingness measures [ 13 ] or summary the rules with techniques [ 11 ] , exploring the rule interactive tools like rule browsers [ 9 ] or query languages [ 8 ] , and visualizing sets with visual representations like matrices or graphs [ 6 , 14 ] . In this article , to apprehend the problem of rule validation , we have opted for defining the user's task as a prerequisite . Indeed in order to efficiently assist the user in his/her search for the interesting knowledge , the KDD process should be considered not from the point of view of the discovery algorithms but from that of the user's , as a usercentered and task oriented decision support system [ 4 ] . From the definition of the user's task and the cognitive constraints which ensue , we propose an appropriate model of rule rummaging which follows from our previous works on the exploration of rule sets using graphs [ 10 ] . Then we present an interactive visualization method for the humancentered process of association rule rummaging . This method combines the three approaches described before with a tight association of interestingness measures , a the user , and a visual strong representation . We have implemented our new visualization method in a first rule mining prototype called ARVis . Including an online algorithm of rule extraction , ARVis allows the user to mine the rules interactively via the visual representation all along the rummaging process . interactivity with
In the next part we define the user's task and our model for the human centered rummaging of association rules . Then we present our interactive visualization method and the choices we made for ARVis regarding the rule set structure , the visual metaphor , and the interactions .
2 . Human centered rummaging of association rules
21 User's task
During the knowledge validation step in the postprocessing of the rules , the user is faced with the rules extracted by data mining algorithms and described by interestingness measures . The user's task is then to find interesting rules for decision making in these long lists . Inspired by research works on the user's behavior in a knowledge discovery process [ 2 ] on the one hand , and also by cognitive principles of information processing in the context of decision models [ 12 ] on the other hand , we consider that the user applies a focusing strategy to apprehend the bulk of rules : faced with a large amount of information , the user focuses his/her attention on a limited and therefore more intelligible subset of potentially useful information . To facilitate the user's post processing task , we have developed a model of human centered rummaging which supports his/her focusing strategy by allowing to isolate a rule subset , to explore it , and to change it in an iterative way until he/she is able to reach a decision .
22 Rule rummaging model
Our rule rummaging model consists in letting the user navigate as he/she wishes through the voluminous rule set by focusing on the successive limited subsets to explore . The user drives a series of local explorations by trial and error through the whole rule set from which only the selected portion is gradually visited . Implementing such a rule rummaging process implies structuring the rule set to allow the user to focus on rule subsets and navigate from one to another . More precisely , we need to group the rules together into subsets and combine these subsets among themselves by neighborhood relations ( figure 1 ) . At each navigation step , to access a new rule subset after exploring the current one , the user has the choice among all the neighboring the neighborhood relation . This relation can be implemented by a retrieval procedure if the rule set is already extracted ( post analysis of rules ) , or by a local algorithm for constraint based ( inductive database approach [ 7 ] ) so that the user drives the data mining interactively from the rummaging process . rule extraction reachable by subsets , ie those the whole rule set
LE3
LE1
LE2
: neighborhood relation
: subsets extracted and locally explored
Figure 1 . The neighborhood relation allows to mine the rule subsets according to the user's navigation
3 . Visualization for rule rummaging in the ARVis tool the generality of rules are here described by
In this part , we describe the choices we made to implement the human centered rummaging process in ARVis . The three interestingness measures : support , confidence [ 1 ] , and implication intensity ( respectively noted sp , cf and ii ) . Support evaluates the rules and confidence its validity ( success rate ) , while implication intensity evaluates the rule statistical surprisingness by quantifying the unlikelihood of the number of counterexamples compared to a probabilistic model [ 3 , 5 ] . Each measure is associated to a minimal threshold set by the user and exploited to filter the rules : ssp , scf , sii .
31 Relation of specialization/generalization
Given the set I of items relative to the studied domain , the rules are of the form X → y where X is an itemset X ⊆ I and y is an item y ∈ I \ X . We have chosen to structure the rule set by creating rule subsets RULES(X ) , each corresponding to an itemset X ⊆ I . Each subset RULES(X ) contains two kinds of rules , the specific ones RULESspe(X ) and the general ones RULESgen(X ) :
RULES(X ) = RULESspe(X ) ∪ RULESgen(X ) .
RULES(A )
RULES(B )
RULES(C )
RULES(AB )
RULES(AC )
RULES(BC )
RULES(ABC )
Figure 2 . The relations of specialization and generalization among the rule subsets ( with a set of items I = {A , B , C} )
The specific and general rules are defined as :
RULESspe(X ) = { X → y such as : y ∈ I \ X , sp(X → y ) ≥ ssp , cf(X → y ) ≥ scf , ii(X → y ) ≥ sii } RULESgen(X ) = { X \{y} → y such as : y ∈ X , sp(X \{y}→y ) ≥ ssp , cf(X \{y}→y ) ≥ scf , ii(X \{y}→y ) ≥sii } The specific rules have all the same left hand side and only their right hand sides differ , while the general rules are all built from the same items . We use as neighborhood relation a relation of specialization among the subsets and its symmetrical relation of generalization ( see the graph figure 2 ) . Specializing a subset RULES(X ) amounts to adding an item to the itemset X , whereas an item is removed by generalizing .
32 Quality oriented visual metaphor
To generate a visual representation of the rules , we take advantage of the user's focusing strategy by only representing the current subset at each navigation step . Each rule subset is visualized using a 3D "information landscape" representation . With the use of 3D instead of 2D , the most important information can be displayed in the foreground , letting the less important information in the background . For each rule subset , the landscape is shared into two areas : one is dedicated to the specific rules , and the other one to the general rules .
Figure 3 . Two arenas in a landscape
We symbolize each rule by the following object : a sphere perched on top of a cone in the landscape . In the specific rule and the general rule areas , the objects are laid out in the landscape on an arena ( a "glass" half bowl ) to reduce occultation ( figure 3 ) . We have opted for the following visual metaphor to represent the rule subsets ( figure 4 ) : the object position represents the implication intensity , the sphere visible area represents the support , the cone height represents the confidence , the object color is used redundantly to represent a weighted average of the three measures .
This visual metaphor stresses the good rules whose visualization and access are made easier compared to the worse rules . Furthermore , some complementary text labels appear above each object to give the name of the corresponding rule and provide the numerical values for support , confidence and implication intensity .
33 Interactions
The user interacts in three different ways with the visual representation : by visiting the rule subsets , by filtering the rules on the interestingness measures , and by navigating among the subsets .
The user can wander freely over the 3D landscape to browse the rules and examine them more closely . To facilitate the user's exploration , there exist predefined viewpoints for the overall vision of each arena and for the close vision of each object .
During the subset local explorations , the user can filter the rules in the landscape by dynamic queries on the interestingness measures via sliders . These queries alter the thresholds ssp , scf , sii on the measures to make only the rules with sufficient quality appear .
Finally , to drive his/her rummaging process , the user can navigate from one rule subset to another by clicking on the objects in the landscape . By clicking on a specific ( respectively general ) rule X → x , he/she triggers the relation of specialization ( resp . generalization ) , the current subset is thus replaced by the new more specific subset RULES(X∪{x} ) ( resp . the new more general subset RULES(X ) ) and the representation is updated . Besides , the more specific or more general subsets the user can reach are represented in a shrunk version inside the spheres of the current landscape . This allows to anticipate whether a subset is worth exploring or not .
The relations of specialization/generalization are implemented using the hybrid mining algorithm presented in [ 10 ] . The first step of this algorithm is the "frequent itemset" mining procedure of the well known A Priori algorithm [ 1 ] . The second step is an online local procedure polynomial items which in number of dynamically computes the rule subsets RULES(X ) . Therefore , only the rules required by the user along his/her rummaging process are extracted .
4 . Conclusion
In this paper , we have presented an interactive visualization method specially designed to support association rule mining and post processing in a KDD process . This new approach is based on our humancentered model of rule rummaging appropriate to the user's task . It enables him/her to navigate through the voluminous rule set by carrying out a series of local explorations of limited subsets he/she focuses on . The user can thus comprehend the bulk of rules more easily to find relevant knowledge for decision making . Coupled with an online algorithm of the visualization allows to interactively drive the data mining by producing only the rules required by the user . The subjectivity present in the rule validation step can thus be exploited in the KDD process to reduce the rule profusion . Moreover , our visualization takes advantage of the rules' names , used in the interactions to navigate among the subsets , but also of interestingness measures , highlighted the representation , which is original compared to the other rule set visualization methods . rule extraction , the in
We have developed ARVis , a first rule mining prototype implementing our visualization method . ARVis is built on a client/server architecture . On the server side , a CGI program takes charge of the local extraction of the rules and of the visual representation construction in VRML . The rules and the 3D landscapes are therefore generated dynamically . On the client side , the user visualizes the landscapes with a web browser equipped with a relevant VRML plug in . The tool can be used with shutterglasses to provide stereoscopic display in order to improve the perception of depth . Our future works will mainly concern : developing the tool for rule rummaging in Java3D , implementing additional neighborhood relations with appropriate local mining algorithms . extraction and visualization of a more specific or more general subset of rules
Figure 4 . The visual metaphor and the interactions in ARVis
Mining and Knowledge Discovery , Springer , LNAI 1510 , 1998 , 318 327 . [ 6 ] Han , J . , Chiang , J . , Chee , S . , Chen , J . , Cheng , S . , Gong , W . , Kamber , M . , Koperski , K . , Liu , G . , Lu , Y . , Stefanovic , N . , Winstone , L . , Xia , B . , Zaiane , OR , Zhang , S . , and Zhu , H . , "DBMiner : a system for data mining in relational databases and data warehouses" , Proc . of CASCON'97 , 1997 , 249 260 . [ 7 ] Imielinski , T . , and Mannila , H . , "A database perspective on knowledge discovery" , Communications of the ACM 39(11 ) , 1996 , 58 64 . [ 8 ] Imielinski , T . , and Virmani , A . , "MSQL : a query language for database mining" , Journal of data mining and knowledge discovery 3(4 ) , 1999 , 373 408 . few surprising rules surprising rules support confidence
CLICK
5 . References
I . ,
"Attribute
[ 1 ] Agrawal , R . , Mannila , H . , Srikant , R . , Toivonen , H . , and Verkamo , AI , "Fast discovery of association rules" , Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , AAAI/MIT Press , UM Fayyad , G . Piatetsky Shapiro , and P . Smyth ( Eds. ) , 1996 , 307 328 . [ 2 ] Bandhari , focusing : machine assisted knowledge discovery applied to software production process control" , Knowledge acquisition 6 , 1994 , 271 294 . [ 3 ] Blanchard , J . , Kuntz , P . , Guillet , F . , and Gras , R . , "Implication intensity : from the basic statistical definition to the entropic version" , Statistical Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery , CRC Press , H . Bozdogan ( Ed. ) , 2003 , 473 485 . [ 4 ] Brachman , JR , and Anand , T . , "The process of knowledge discovery in databases : a human centered approach" , Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , AAAI/MIT Press , UM Fayyad , G . Piatetsky Shapiro , and P . Smyth ( Eds. ) , 1996 , 37 58 . [ 5 ] Guillaume , S . , Guillet , F . , and Philippe , J . , "Improving the discovery of association rules with intensity of implication" , Proc . of the 2nd European Conference of Principles of Data
[ 9 ] Klemettinen , M . , Mannila , H . , and Toivonen , H . , Interactive exploration of discovered knowledge : a methodology for interaction , and usability studies , Technical report C 1996 3 , University of Helsinki , 1996 . [ 10 ] Kuntz , P . , Guillet , F . , Lehn , R . , and Briand , H . , "A userdriven process for mining association rules" , Proc . of the 4th European Conference of Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery , Springer , LNAI 1910 , 2000 , 160 168 . [ 11 ] Liu , B . , Hu , M . , and Hsu , W . , "Multi level organization and summarization of the discovered rules" , Proc . of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 2000 , 208 217 . [ 12 ] Montgomery , H . , "Decision rules and the search for dominance structure : toward a process model of decisionmaking" , Analyzing and Aiding Decision Processes , PC Humphreys , O . Svenson , and A . Vari ( Eds. ) , 1983 , 471 483 . [ 13 ] Tan , P . , Kumar , V . , and Srivastava , J . , "Selecting the right interestingness measure for association patterns" , Proc . of the 8th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 2000 , 32 41 . [ 14 ] Wong , PC , Whitney , P . , and Thomas , J . , "Visualizing association rules for text mining" , Proc . of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization InfoVis'99 , 1999 , 120 123 .
