Gaussian Multiple Instance Learning Approach for Mapping the Slums of the World Using Very High
Resolution Imagery∗
† Ranga Raju Vatsavai
Computational Sciences and Engineering Division
Oak Ridge National Laboratory , Oak Ridge , Tennessee , USA vatsavairr@ornl.gov
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a computationally efficient algorithm based on multiple instance learning for mapping informal settlements ( slums ) using very high resolution remote sensing imagery . From remote sensing perspective , informal settlements share unique spatial characteristics that distinguish them from other urban structures like industrial , commercial , and formal residential settlements . However , regular pattern recognition and machine learning methods , which are predominantly single instance or per pixel classifiers , often fail to accurately map the informal settlements as they do not capture the complex spatial patterns . To overcome these limitations we employed a multiple instance based machine learning approach , where groups of contiguous pixels ( image patches ) are modeled as generated by a Gaussian distribution . We have conducted several experiments on very high resolution satellite imagery , representing four unique geographic regions across the world . Our method showed consistent improvement in accurately identifying informal settlements .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data Mining ; I.5 [ Pattern Recognition ] : Models—Statistical
∗Prepared by Oak Ridge National Laboratory , PO Box 2008 , Oak Ridge , Tennessee 37831 6285 , managed by UTBattelle , LLC for the U . S . Department of Energy under contract no . DEAC05 00OR22725 . †(Partial ) support for this work was provided through Scientific Discovery through Advanced Computing ( SciDAC ) program funded by US Department of Energy , Office of Science , Advanced Scientific Computing Research ( and Basic Energy Sciences/Biological and Environmental Research/High Energy Physics/Fusion Energy Sciences/Nuclear Physics )
Copyright 2013 Association for Computing Machinery . ACM acknowledges that this contribution was authored or co authored by an employee , contractor or affiliate of the US Government . As such , the Government retains a nonexclusive , royalty free right to publish or reproduce this article , or to allow others to do so , for Government purposes only . KDD’13 , August 11–14 , 2013 , Chicago , Illinois , USA . Copyright © 2013 ACM 978 1 4503 2174 7/13/08…$1500
Keywords Spatial Data Mining , Remote Sensing , MIL
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Multi spectral remote sensing imagery is widely used in mapping settlements , forests , crops and other natural and man made objects on the Earth . On the other hand , very high resolution ( VHR ) imagery is useful in mapping complex patterns , such as formal and informal settlements . VHR image classification poses several challenges because the typical object size is much larger than the pixel resolution . Any given pixel ( spectral features at that location ) by itself is not a good indicator of the object it belongs to without looking at the broader spatial footprint . However , existing per pixel ( single instance ) based thematic classification schemes are designed for moderate spatial resolution ( 10 meters and above ) . This is not to say that well known single instance learning algorithms are not applicable in classifying VHR images , in fact they are highly effective in identifying primitive objects such as buildings , roads , forest , and water . However , what we are pointing at is that the single instance learning algorithms are inadequate in modeling complex ( spatial ) patterns . The same limitations are also applicable to spatial contextual classifiers ( e.g , Markov Random Fields ) , as these classifiers look at the immediate neighboring pixels to modify the label of a single instance . Therefore , there is a great need for newer approaches which looks at a bigger window or image patch ( consisting 100 ’s of adjacent pixels ) in building a classification model .
In this work , we present a classification framework based on image window or patch ( multi instance ) learning for mapping informal settlements using VHR images . From remote sensing perspective , informal settlements share unique spatial characteristics that distinguish them from other urban structures like industrial , commercial , and formal residential settlements [ 10 ] . To overcome the limitations posed by single instance classifiers in modeling complex patterns , we developed a novel multi instance based machine learning approach , which showed improvements in accurately identifying informal settlements . We have conducted several experiments on high resolution satellite imagery , representing four unique geographic regions across the world .
1.1 Application Significance
With the recent launch of satellites by private companies such as Digital Globe ( eg , WorldView 2 in late 2009 ) , ap
1419 plications around very high resolution ( VHR ) imagery ( submeter ) are emerging fast . Such imagery provides new opportunities to monitor and map both natural and man made structure across the globe . For past several years , we are engaged in developing several new approaches to efficiently process these imagery to support applications of national importance , such as biomass monitoring [ 6 , 7 ] , nuclear proliferation monitoring [ 22,24 ] , and settlement mapping [ 10 ] at finer spatial and temporal scales . Mapping informal settlements is an important task both from national security and as well as humanitarian grounds . The high rate of urbanization , political conflicts and ensuing internal displacement of population , and increased poverty in the 20th century has resulted in rapid increase of informal settlements . These unplanned , unauthorized , and/or unstructured homes , known as informal settlements , shantytowns , barrios , or slums , pose several challenges to the nations as these settlements are often located in most hazardous regions and lack basic services . Though several World Bank and United Nations sponsored studies stress the importance of poverty maps in designing better policies and interventions , mapping slums of the world is a daunting and challenging task . This work is a step towards developing a computationally efficient and automated framework that is capable of detecting new settlements ( especially slums ) across the globe .
2 . RELATED WORK AND LIMITATIONS
Most of the existing classification approaches work with spectral features ( eg , blue , green , red , thermal infrared ) and derived features ( eg , texture , band ratios like Normalized Difference Vegetation Index ( NDVI ) , Histogram of Oriented Gradients ( HOG) ) , extracted from each pixel ( spatial location ) . This process is shown in Figure 1 . Typical classification involves : ( i ) collection of ground truth ( training/test ) data at few locations ( Figure 1(a ) ) in the image for simple thematic classes ( eg , urban , water , forest , agriculture ) or finer classes ( eg , high density urban , low density urban , deep water , shallow water , hardwood forest , conifer forest , soybean , wheat , corn ) , ( ii ) build a classification model ( eg , Naive Bayes , decision trees , neural networks ) , and ( iii ) predict labels for entire image ( Figure 1(b) ) . A review of these techniques can be found in [ 10 , 25 ] . modeled simultaneously , as a result the final classified image contains much smoother ( spatially ) class distribution and eliminates salt and pepper noise . Figure 2 compares ( a ) non spatial ( maximum likelihood ) and ( b ) spatial ( MRF ) classification schemes . However , it should be noted that both of these schemes based on single instance learners .
Figure 2 : Classified images : ( a ) non spatial , ( b ) spatial
Though single instance learning schemes are widely used in remote sensing image classification ( approximately 30 meter spatial resolution ) , they are mostly applied for discriminating simple thematic classes ( both aggregate and finer ) . However with increasing spatial resolution ( sub meter ) current satellite images contains much more spatial heterogeneity ( rich spatial information ) , see Figure 3 . As result , it is possible to extract more complex classes , such as , informal ( slums , shanty towns , burrows ) settlements from these very high resolution images . Single instance learning ( non spatial or spatial ) are ineffective in such cases due to the fact that the size of the pixel ( less than one m2 ) is much smaller than the size of the objects ( for example , average building size in US is 250 m2 ) .
Figure 1 : Raw satellite image and the corresponding classified image
An improvement over per pixel classification schemes are the spatial classification schemes such as MRF [ 18 ] . Most classification schemes model the correlations in feature space and often ignore spatial correlations in spatial data , such as satellite images . In spatial classification schemes both spatial correlations ( context ) and feature correlations are
Figure 3 : Accra ( Ghana ) city with two distinct settlement patterns speared by hand drawn boundary ( red )
1420 One way to overcome single instance limitation is to look at additional features beyond spectral features , because features that exploit spatial contextual information are highly useful in the classification of very high resolution images . Recent studies [ 10,21,25 ] show the improved performance of single instance learners when the spectral features are combined with a broad set of extended features such as morphological , texture , and edge density . Although these studies showed that the extended features which exploit spatial contextual information resulted in improved accuracy , the classification schemes utilized are still single instance learners . For complex object recognition we need to look at a bigger spatial region . Figure 3 illustrates this problem clearly . As can be seen in this figure , humans can easily identify two distinct settlement patterns , north of boundary is formal and south is informal . However , there is not much difference between spectral values if you look at individual pixels drawn for similar objects across the boundary , for example , buildings . To illustrate this point , we selected two small windows ( blue windows ) around buildings , window ( a ) is drawn from informal settlements and window ( b ) is drawn from the formal settlements . These windows are zoomed in Figure 4 . As one can see , the difference between these building ( at pixel level ) is minimal , as a result per pixel ( single instance ) classification schemes cannot predict them into formal vs informal classes , rather they can accurately predict both into buildings . On the other hand , when you a look at bigger patch as a whole , then it is easy to see the difference between informal and formal settlements , as these patches contains much richer spatial information . imagery . In [ 4 ] , authors have developed MIL based binary classification scheme for identifying targets ( landmines ) in HS imagery . While each of these algorithms have advantages and disadvantages over per pixel based classification schemes , in general they are shown to perform ( accuracy ) better than single instance learning schemes . Key idea behind multi instance learning schemes is the utilization of all instances drawn from the image patches or windows . In multi instance learning , the training data consists of many bags ( windows ) where each bag contains several examples ( pixels ) . A bag is positively labeled if it contains at least one positive instance ( eg , informal settlement ) and negative otherwise ( eg , formal settlement ) . This scheme is conceptually depicted in the Figure 5(a ) . As shown in this figure , the decision boundary is optimized such that positive and negative bags are separated using decision rule just described . On the other hand , Figure 5(b ) shows traditional single instance learning schemes where the objective is minimize the number of misclassified ( single ) instances . Key point to note here is that in multi instance learning entire bag is assigned a single label , where as in single instance learning a single bag may have both positive and negative instances . Therefore , single instance learning algorithms are appropriate for thematic classification ( eg , roads , buildings ) , whereas multi instance learning algorithms are designed for recognizing complex patterns ( eg , informal and formal settlements ) .
Figure 4 : Two small patches drawn from informal and formal settlements in Accra city
Object based classification schemes
[ 3 , 15 ] are one step in that direction . Typically , object based methods seek to segment the image into meaningful objects by exploiting spatial and spectral features . One can build a meta classifier on the features extracted from the objects , for example , area , perimeter , compactness , shape index , and fractal dimension . Or one can aggregate all feature vectors into a single feature vector and then apply any single instance learning algorithm . However , all these approaches loose important structural and spatial properties in the aggregation process .
Multi instance ( or Multiple instance ) learning ( MIL ) methods have been developed to overcome some of the limitations of single instance learning schemes . Notable approaches include the seminal work of Dietterich et . al . [ 8 ] , Diverse Density [ 14 ] , and Citation KNN [ 26 ] . Recently , MIL algorithms have also been applied to remote sensing image classification as well . For example , in [ 20 ] MIL approach is explored for sub surface landmine detection using hyperspectral ( HS )
Figure 5 : Decision boundaries resulting from : ( a ) multi instance learning , and ( b ) single instance learning
In a recent feasibility study we successfully applied CitaionKNN algorithm for complex settlement mapping [ 23 ] . However , the high computational cost of Citaion KNN has led
1421 us to design a computationally efficient algorithm . This algorithm is very similar to the Citation KNN approach in spirit . In Citation KNN approach , the similarity between bags ( patch in image parlance ) is determined by minimizing the Hausdroff distance which is computationally expensive . As can be seen in the following sections , our proposed method is not only computationally efficient but is also consistently accurate than the Citation KNN algorithm .
3 . GAUSSIAN MULTIPLE INSTANCE LEARN
ING ( GMIL )
The key idea behind the proposed GMIL algorithm is to model each bag as a Gaussian distribution . As a result we are simplifying the computation of similarity measure ( eg , Hausdroff distance ) and at the same time capturing the heterogeneity through the covariance matrix . Parameters of this distribution can be estimated from the training data directly . Since we are abstracting each window ( or patch ) as a Gaussian distribution , the trained model essentially consists a bag of Gaussians ( BoG ) of size “ N , ” where “ N ” is the number of training bags . We assume a bag representation instead of a set representation , because it may be possible that two Gaussian distributions may be extremely close ( or highly overlapping ) , if not exactly the same . Once we have a BoG model generated from the training data , we can use this model to predict a class label for any new image patch or window . Therefore , the BoG algorithm can abstracted into following key steps .
Basic primitives of BoG algorithm are as follows :
• Divide the image into regular grids ( or patches )
• A fast training acquisition system
• Construction of BoG model from the training data
• Match query bag with the bag of Gaussians
• Apply nearest neighbor based classifier to assign a class label to the query bag
Our objective is to design these steps such that accuracy is maximized while the computational complexity is minimized .
3.1 Image Grids or Patches
In the first step , we divide the image into regular grids , or blocks , or patches . A grid is essentially a square or rectangular block whose size ( pixels x lines ) determines the quality and computational cost of the algorithm . If the grid is too large , it may result in poor representation . For example , larger grids may contain more than a single object , therefore the Gaussian distribution fitted to the grid may not have a single peak . However , the computation time drastically reduces with the increase in grid size . On the contrary , if the grid size is too small it would increase the computational cost , and may also lead to errors in model parameter estimation and matrix inversion problems . The optimal size is typically dictated by the pixel resolution , typical object sizes found in the imagery , and the number of image bands ( ie , dimensions ) . Figure 6 shows the grids superimposed on a high resolution satellite image . In the remaining sections , we refer to the term grid when referencing this first step .
Figure 6 : User defined grids superimposed on a high resolution satellite image
3.2 Fast Training Acquisition
One of the bottlenecks in image classification is the acquisition of the training data . Often an analyst has to accurately digitize the object boundaries and label them . By the very design of our algorithm , analyst do not have to digitize at all . An analyst simply displays the image with grids overlaid and picks up a few representative grids by just clicking on the grids for each class ( or thematic category ) . The training acquisition system is integrated with the popular open source QGIS [ 1 ] . Resulting training data is shown in Figure 7 . Each colored grid represents a class label given by the analyst .
3.3 Constructing BoG model
We model the image data in each grid , that is , all multidimensional feature vectors from each pixel in the grid , are generated by a multi variate Gaussian distribution described in the following equation . p(x|yj ) = p(2π)−N |Σj |
1
−1
2 ( x−µj )t|Σj |−1(x−µj ) e
( 1 )
The standard multi variate Gaussian distribution is described by the parameters mean ( µ ) and covariance matrix ( Σ ) . These parameters are estimated for each grid separately from the corresponding image data , as shown in Figure 8 .
3.4 Prediction
Once BoG model is constructed , then class labels can be predicted based on how similar the new image windows ( or patches ) are to the examples in the trained model . For each new window , the algorithm works as follows .
1 . Compute the probabilistic distance between a given window ( Gaussian distribution , Pi ) and each Gaussian
1422 DKL(P ||Q ) =
1 2
[ log
|σQ| |ΣP |
+ T r(Σ−1
Q ΣP )
( 3 )
+(µP − µQ)T Σ−1
Q ( µP − µQ ) ]
Unfortunately , KL divergence is not a distance metric and is not scaled between 0 and 1 ( whereas Bhattacharyya and Mahalanobis are scaled ) . However , the symmetric version of KL divergence is easy to compute :
DKL(P ||Q ) =
1 2
( DKL(P ||Q ) + DKL(Q||P )
( 4 )
2 . Rank the distances ( similarity score )
3 . Assign label to the window ( or patch ) based on the winner from top K nearest neighbors .
This prediction process is schematically represented in Figure 9 . As shown in the figure , after ranking the computed similarity between a given image ( or query ) patch and all the training patches , “ formal ” class label is assigned to the query window as it got the maximum votes ( 3 ) in comparison to the “ informal ” class . Though the example is shown for two class problem , the actual algorithm is designed for multiple classes .
Figure 7 : Ground truth collection system ( each color represents a unique class )
Figure 8 : BoG Model Constructed From The Training Data
( Qj ) in the BoG model . There are various divergence and distance measures readily available from the literature . The most notable ones are the Kullback Leibler ( KL ) divergence , Bhattacharyya distance , and Mahalanobis distance . We implemented all three measures , but experimentally found KL divergence to be slightly better than the other two . The KL divergence is a non symmetric measure of the difference between two probability distributions P and Q , given by :
DKL(P ||Q ) = Z ∞
−∞ p(x ) ln p(x ) q(x ) dx
( 2 )
Figure 9 : Prediction based on similarity ( probabilistic distance ) measure
For Gaussian distributions , the KL divergence is given by :
This general framework can be adopted for Citation KNN by simply replacing the modeling and prediction as following . In addition , single instance learning algorithms can also
1423 be applied by transforming the patch into a single feature vector ( eg , centroid , average ) .
3.5 Citation KNN
The training dataset is collected as described previously ( section 32 ) Citation KNN is a simple extension of regular kNN algorithm . In its simplest form ( k=1 ) , the kNN algorithm assigns a given pixel ( feature vector ) to the same class label as the closest data point . Though computation of distance ( Euclidian or probabilistic ) between feature vectors is straight forward , computing distance between bags is not as straight forward . Citation KNN algorithm uses Hausdorff distance as the distance between two bags . Let us assume that A and B are two given bags , and ai , bj are instances from the corresponding bags , then the distance between A and B is found by minimizing the following equation .
Dist(A , B ) = Min 1≤i≤n 1≤j≤n
( Dist(a,bj ) )
= MinaǫAM inbǫB ka − bk
( 5 )
This minimal Hausdorff distance allows regular kNN algorithm to be applied to the multi instance learning . Once all the minimal Hausdorff distances have been computed between query bag and training bags , a simple majority voting is used to choose the label for the query bag . In addition , Citation KNN uses the notion of reference , that is , a query bag is assigned not only based on its neighbor relationships but also by taking into account the bags that regard the query bag as its neighbor . This citation approach is shown to be more robust to the noise in the training data .
4 . PIXEL ( SINGLE INSTANCE ) BASED CLAS
SIFICATION SCHEMES
We now briefly describe four major classification schemes used to evaluate the performance against the Citation KNN and the GMIL classification schemes .
4.1 Logistic Regression
Given an n−vector y of observations and an n × m matrix X of explanatory data , classical linear regression models the relationship between y and X as y = Xβ + ǫ . One simple way to extend regression for classification is to perform regression for each class . While this simple extension works for classification , it violates the basic assumptions of regression . That is , errors are statistically independent and normally distributed because the observations ( y ) take only 0 and 1 values . Logistic regression [ 9 , 13 ] does not suffer from these limitations . In the case of Logistic regression , the target variable ( y ) is transformed via the Logistic function and the dependent variable is interpreted as the probability of finding a given class .
4.2 Tree Based Classification ( Random Forests )
Random forests is an ensemble method used to construct a series of decision trees . Each tree is constructed on a different training dataset of the same size generated by random sampling , with replacement from the original training dataset . Random forests retain many benefits of decision trees and avoid pruning . Random forests have also shown to generalize well , and accuracies are typically higher than a single tree . Uses of random forests for image classification can be found in [ 11 ] .
4.3 Neural Networks
Artificial neural networks , which are non parametric classifiers as opposed to Bayesian classifiers , are gaining popularity in remote sensing image classification . This popularity can be attributed to several factors : 1 ) previous studies [ 2 , 16 ] have shown that their performance is as good as MLC and in many cases more accurate , 2 ) they are nonparametric , so they are capable of classifying multi source data , and 3 ) they have several desirable characteristics like nonlinearity , adaptability , and fault tolerance .
The use of neural networks in remote sensing data analysis has been somewhat limited until recent years because of the complexities associated with establishing suitable parameters for network training , the lack of knowledge about the internal workings of networks ( especially how they divide the feature space ) , and lack of comparative studies . The previous “ black box ” view of neural networks – which limited its use – is now clear with the insights provided by recent studies [ 12 ] , [ 17 ] . Several recent studies [ 5 ] , [ 2 ] , [ 16 ] were also focused on comparing statistical and neural network classification of remote sensing data . We used the Multi layer perceptrons ( MLP ) architecture in this experiment .
[ 19 ] ,
431 Naive Bayes Classification
One of the simplest Bayes classifiers is naive the Bayes ( NB ) classifier . In the general Bayesian setting , it is assumed that the samples in feature space are correlated , meaning greater emphasis is placed on an accurate estimation of the covariance matrix ( Σ ) . One challenge in estimating the full covariance matrix is that one needs a large number of training samples . This assumption is relaxed in a NB classifier , where it is assumed that features are independent . That is , a naive Bayes classifier assumes that the presence ( or absence ) of a particular feature of a class is not dependent on the presence ( or absence ) of other features . As a result , the full covariance matrix does not have to be estimated . Instead , estimation of variance is sufficient to construct a NB classifier . With independent feature assumption , the Gaussian distribution simplifies to : p(x|ωi ) =
( x−µi )2
2σ2 i
− e
1 p2πσ2 i
( 6 )
5 . EXPERIMENTS
Four cities were chosen for this study to thoroughly evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm . The cities chosen are as follows : Accra ( 1 ) , Caracas ( 2 ) , La Paz ( 3 ) , and Kandahar ( 4 ) . The population estimate in 2010 for Caracas and La Paz was 3.098 million and 1.69 million , respectively . As of 2006 estimate Kandahar has population of 468,200 . The imagery used for this study is came from the DigitalGlobe CityShere database . Spatial resolution is 0.6m and each image has 3 spectral bands .
We chose these four cities as they represent diversity in terms of different climates , cultures , and economies . Caracas , Kandahar , and La Paz reside in a tropical , dry , semiarid , and sub tropical highland climate , respectively . Caracas , which has one of the largest ” mega slums “ on the planet , has an estimated 44 % of its population living in informal settlements .
1424 F F 105 2 I 0 V 0 B W 0 Precision 98
I 7 74 0 0 0 91
V B W Recall 93.75 0 0 94.87 100.00 7 100.00 0 100.00 0 100 95.67
0 0 0 0 35 100
0 2 0 22 0 92
Table 1 : GMIL test accuracy ( contingency table ) for Accra city
City C KNN LogReg
1 2 3 4
76.25 82.96 80.97 79.78
71.25 78.15 77.17 64.89
RF MLP 69.58 72.08 81.81 81.85 80.23 78.26 69.14 73.93
NB GMIL 95.66 75.66 85.00 74.07 83.25 76.08 60.10 81.20
Table 2 : Overall classification accuracy for each study site
For each study site , we have chosen roughly 4 % of grids for training data . Couple of domain experts who have close knowledge about these cities then labeled these grids . The classes considered for these cities are : formal ( F ) , informal ( I ) , vegetation ( V ) , bare soil ( B ) , and water ( W ) . This data is then divided into independent training ( 40 % ) and test ( 60 % ) datasets . Trained model is then used to predict labels for entire study site . The performance is evaluated by constructing contingency table . Table 1 shows the contingency table for GMIL classifier for Accra . Reporting full contingency table for each city and each classifier would be overwhelming , therefore for simplicity we are just reporting the overall accuracies . The overall classification results were summarized in the Table 2 .
As can be seen from the table , GMIL performs better than all other classification schemes . It is interesting to note that Citation KNN model is also performed better than single instance approaches . Figure 10 shows the GMIL classification output ( overlaid on raw image ) of the Accra city . As single instance learning algorithms can’t be directly applied on the bags , we did post processing by converting grids into a single class by applying majority vote ( Modal filtering ) .
5.1 GMIL vs Citation KNN
Though the performance of Citaiton KNN is close to GMIL except in Accra , the computational complexity makes it infeasible for image classification . Let n be the average number of instances per bag , and N be the number of training bags , and d be the number of dimensions , then the computational complexity of Citation KNN is O(n2N d ) . As a result this algorithm can not be applied to large images . Computational complexity is greatly reduced for GMIL as we are computing the distance between two distributions rather than the n2 pair wise distances between instances across the bags . To measure the actual difference in cpu time , we ran the experiment on a very high resolution ( 1 m2 ) multispectral ( 3 bands ) satellite imagery . The image cropped to 1km2 consisting of 1,000 x 1,000 pixels . This image is then divided into 10,000 blocks where each block consists of 10 x 10 pixels . Of these 10,000 blocks , we have selected 380 blocks for training . This data is divided into independent training
Figure 10 : GMIL Classified Image Overlaid on Raw Image
( 130 blocks ) and test ( 250 blocks ) datasets . We ran both GMIL and Citaion KNN algorithms on a single node with two dual Xeon hex core processors ( 3.46 GHz ) with 48 GB of 1333 MHz ECC DDR3 memory . Even for this small image , Citation KNN took about 27.8 hours , where as GMIL took 3.1 hours . GMIL is 9 times faster than Citation kNN in addition to being more accurate on all study sites . Though GMIL is faster , it requires parallel implementation to make it operational .
6 . CONCLUSIONS
In this study , we presented a computationally efficient multiple instance learning algorithm . Experimental studies showed that algorithm is capable of finding complex patterns in the high resolution satellite images . Comparative analysis showed our algorithm performed better than many standard per pixels classification algorithms as well as the CitationKNN algorithm . In addition , our algorithm is computationally efficient . We are using this algorithm for mapping the slums ( informal settlements ) across the globe . Analyzing very high resolution remote sensing images for complex pattern extraction is an emerging research topic . In addition , automated mapping of informal settlements fills a critical need of national governments and planning agencies . We are working on further improving the algorithm as we are classifying more and more cities . We are also working on parallel implementation of this framework on GPUs . As mentioned earlier , our ultimate goal is to build a computationally efficient and automated framework that is capable of detecting new settlements ( especially slums ) across the globe in a continuous manner . As our work matures , we hope that this framework becomes an important tool in complex settlement mapping using very high resolution satellite imagery for a broader community .
1425 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I would like to thank my collaborators B . Bhaduri , J . Graesser , A . Cheriyadat , E . Bright , V . Chandola , and C . Symons for their invaluable feedback into this research .
This manuscript has been authored by employees of UTBattelle , LLC , under contract DE AC05 00OR22725 with the US Department of Energy . Accordingly , the United States Government retains and the publisher , by accepting the article for publication , acknowledges that the United States Government retains a non exclusive , paid up , irrevocable , world wide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript , or allow others to do so , for United States Government purposes .
8 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Quantum GIS : open source geographic information system ( gis ) . http://wwwqgisorg/
[ 2 ] A . Benediktsson , P . Swain , and O . Ersoy . Neural network approaches versus statistical methods in classificaion of multisource remote sensing data . IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , 28(4):550 , 1990 .
[ 3 ] T . Blaschke , S . Lang , and G . Hay . Object Based Image
Analysis . Springer , 2008 .
[ 4 ] J . Bolton and P . Gader . Application of multiple instance learning for hyperspectral image analysis . Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters , IEEE , 8(5):889 –893 , sept . 2011 .
[ 5 ] L . Bruzzone , C . Consese , F . Masellit , and F . Roli .
Multisource classification of complex rural areas by statistical and neural network approaches . Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing , 63(5):523–533 , May 1997 .
[ 6 ] V . Chandola and R . R . Vatsavai . Scalable time series change detection for biomass monitoring using gaussian process . In CIDU , pages 69–82 , 2010 .
International Journal of Remote Sensing , 18(4):711–725 , 1997 .
[ 13 ] B . Krishnapuram , L . Carin , M . A . Figueiredo , and
A . J . Hartemink . Sparse multinomial logistic regression : fast algorithms and generalization bounds . Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , IEEE Transactions on , 27(6):957 –968 , June 2005 .
[ 14 ] O . Maron and T . Lozano P˜Al’rez . A framework for multiple instance learning . In ADVANCES IN NEURAL INFORMATION PROCESSING SYSTEMS , pages 570–576 . MIT Press , 1998 .
[ 15 ] S . Nussbaum and G . Menz . Object Based Image Analysis and Treaty Verification . Springer , 2008 .
[ 16 ] J . Paola and R . Schowengerdt . A detailed comparison of backpropagation neural network and maximum likelihood classifiers for urban land use classification . IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , 33(4):981–996 , 1995 .
[ 17 ] J . Paola and R . Schowengerdt . The effect of neural network structure on a multispectral land use/land cover classification . Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing , 63(5):535–544 , 1997 .
[ 18 ] S . Shekhar , P . Schrater , R . Vatsavai , W . Wu , and
S . Chawla . Spatial contextual classification and prediction models for mining geospatial data . IEEE Transaction on Multimedia , 4(2):174–188 , 2002 .
[ 19 ] A . Skidmore , B . Turner , W . Brinkhof , and
E . Knowles . Performance of a neural network : Mapping forest using gis and remorely sensed data . Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing , 63(5):501–514 , May 1997 .
[ 20 ] P . Torrione , C . Ratto , and L . Collins . Multiple instance and context dependent learning in hyperspectral data . In Hyperspectral Image and Signal Processing : Evolution in Remote Sensing , 2009 . WHISPERS ’09 . First Workshop on , pages 1 –4 , aug . 2009 .
[ 7 ] V . Chandola and R . R . Vatsavai . A scalable gaussian
[ 21 ] R . R . Vatsavai . High resolution urban image process analysis algorithm for biomass monitoring . Statistical Analysis and Data Mining , 4(4):430–445 , 2011 .
[ 8 ] T . G . Dietterich , R . H . Lathrop , T . Lozano Perez , and
A . Pharmaceutical . Solving the multiple instance problem with axis parallel rectangles . Artificial Intelligence , 89:31–71 , 1997 .
[ 9 ] S . Dreiseitl and L . Ohno Machado . Logistic regression and artificial neural network classification models : a methodology review . Journal of Biomedical Informatics , 35(5 6):352 – 359 , 2002 .
[ 10 ] J . Graesser , A . Cheriyadat , R . Vatsavai , V . Chandola , J . Long , and E . Bright . Image based characterization of formal and informal neighborhoods in an urban landscape . Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing , IEEE Journal of , 5(4):1164 –1176 , aug . 2012 .
[ 11 ] J . Ham , Y . Chen , M . M . Crawford , and J . Ghosh .
Investigation of the random forest framework for classification of hyperspectral data . Geoscience and Remote Sensing , IEEE Transactions on , 43(3):492 – 501 , Mar . 2005 .
[ 12 ] I . Kanellopoulos and G . G . Wilkinson . Strategies and best practice for neural network image classification . classification using extended features . In ICDM Workshops , pages 869–876 , 2011 .
[ 22 ] R . R . Vatsavai . A data mining framework for monitoring nuclear facilities . In ICDM Workshops ( Industry/Government Track ) , page 917 , 2012 .
[ 23 ] R . R . Vatsavai , B . Bhaduri , and J . Graesser . Complex settlement pattern extraction with multi instance learning . In Joint Urban Remote Sensing Event , pages 1 –4 , apr . 2013 .
[ 24 ] R . R . Vatsavai , B . L . Bhaduri , A . Cheriyadat , L . F . Arrowood , E . A . Bright , S . S . Gleason , C . Diegert , A . K . Katsaggelos , T . Pappas , R . Porter , J . Bollinger , B . Chen , and R . Hohimer . Geospatial image mining for nuclear proliferation detection : Challenges and new opportunities . In IGARSS , pages 48–51 , 2010 .
[ 25 ] R . R . Vatsavai , E . A . Bright , V . Chandola , B . L .
Bhaduri , A . Cheriyadat , and J . Graesser . Machine learning approaches for high resolution urban land cover classification : a comparative study . In COM.Geo , page 11 , 2011 .
[ 26 ] J . Wang . Solving the multiple instance problem : A lazy learning approach . In In Proc . 17th International Conf . on Machine Learning , pages 1119–1125 . Morgan Kaufmann , 2000 .
1426
