Mining Cultural Differences from a Large Number of Geotagged Photos
Keiji Yanai
The University of Electro Communications
Chofu , Tokyo 182 8585 JAPAN yanai@csuecacjp
ABSTRACT We propose a novel method to detect cultural differences over the world automatically by using a large amount of geotagged images on the photo sharing Web sites such as Flickr . We employ the state of the art object recognition technique developed in the research community of computer vision to mine representative photos of the given concept for representative local regions from a large scale unorganized collection of consumer generated geotagged photos . The results help us understand how objects , scenes or events corresponding to the same given concept are visually different depending on local regions over the world .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 Information Search and Retrieval : Miscellaneous
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement
Keywords : geotag , object recognition , representative image , Flickr 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recently , consumer generated media ( CGM ) on the Web has become very popular . Especially , photo sharing sites such as Flickr and Picasa are representative CGM sites , which store a huge number of consumer generated photos people uploaded , and make them accessible via the Web for everyone . Photo sharing sites collect not only photos but also metadata on uploaded photos . As metadata users add to photos , textual information such as keywords and comments is common . Recently , in addition to texts , some users attach “ geotags ” to their uploaded photos . Note that a “ geotag ” means metadata which represents a location where the corresponding photo was taken , which is expressed by a set of a latitude and a longitude .
An accurate geotag can be obtained with a GPS device or a location aware camera phone . However , since it forces us to use relatively special devices , GPS based geotags have not been common so far . Instead , map based geotags have become common , after Flickr , which is the largest photo sharing site in the world , launched an online geotagging interface in 2006 . Then , Flickr also became the largest “ geotagged ” photo database in the world . According to [ 3 ] , there are currently over 40,000,000 public geotagged photos on Flickr , and 100,000 geotagged photos have been added every month . These geotagged photos would be valuable not only for browsing and finding individual concepts , but also Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2009 , April 20 24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
Beijing University of Posts and Technology
Bingyu Qiu
Beijing , 100876 , China bigyuqiu@bupt.cn for helping us understand how local specific objects or scenes over the world are different .
Our objective is thus to facilitate a system which can automatically select relevant and representative photographs for the general object or scene concepts in the worldwide dimensions . In particular , we consider geotagged photos on Flickr , identify the representative image groups , and generate an aggregate representation based on locations that allows navigation , exploration and understanding of the differences of general concepts depending on local locations in the world visually . We employ the state of the art object recognition technique developed in the research community of computer vision to mine representative photos of the given concept for each region from a large scale unorganized collection of consumer generated geotagged photos . The results help us understand how objects , scenes or events corresponding to the same given concept are visually different depending on local regions over the world .
Figure 1 : After collecting geotagged photo related to the given concept by the text tag based search , we remove noise images , cluster regions and select regional representative images .
2 . OVERVIEW OF OUR APPROACH
Our approach for selecting the representative images for representative local regions from geotagged images consists of three main stages ( Figure 1 ) : ( 1 ) removing irrelevant images to the given concept , ( 2 ) estimating representative geographic regions , and ( 3 ) selecting representative images for each region .
First , we apply clustering techniques to partition the image set into similar groups , based on bag of visual words feature vectors [ 1 ] . By evaluating the intra cluster densities as well as the cluster member numbers , we discard most of the irrelevant images and obtain a reduced set of images which are visually similar to each other . This stage could be regarded as the “ Filtering Stage ” .
Then , we geographically cluster the reduced set of images and select large geographic clusters as representative regions . Here we use the k means clustering algorithm based
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091173 on the geographic latitude and longitude of photos to obtain representative regions in the world for the given concept .
Finally , for each representative region , we perform the Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis ( PLSA ) [ 2 ] to identify the distinct “ topics ” , do additional clustering on the entire topic vectors , and select the “ significant ” cluster as the representative results for this geographic region . In addition , with the help of on line map service , we have implemented a map based browser to show selected representative photos for understanding of differences regarding appearances of generic object concepts over the world .
Please refer to [ 4 ] for the detail .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
To test and verify if our approach works in practice , we conducted preliminary experiments with photos collected directly from Flickr . In the experiments , we used seven “ object ” concepts and two “ scene ” concepts including “ noodle ” , “ wedding cake ” , “ flower ” , ” castle ” , “ car ” , “ waterfall ” and “ beach ” . For each concept , we collected about 2000 most relevant geotagged photos distributed evenly in the world wide areas . The precision of raw photos of these seven concepts is 43 % on average , which is defined as ( # relevant images)/(# all images ) . After “ Filtering Stage ” , it was improved to 80 % , which indicated that noise removal was effective .
We show the representative photos selected for several representative regions , while these regions were generated automatically based on geographic locations of the most relevant photos selected in the “ Filtering Stage ” . Figure 2 and Figure 3 show the results for the concept “ noodle ” , each of which presents the most representative photos generated for the approximate regions : Japan and Europe . Without doubt , these results can help us understand about the “ noodle ” in these local areas . For example , Figure 2 demonstrates many “ ramen ” photos in Japan and Figure 3 demonstrates “ spaghetti ” photos in the European area . In addition , South East Asia , Mideast US and Western US are obtained as other representative regions , representative photos of which also have characteristics such as “ noodles ” in the South East Asia area containing some Taiwanese style noodles and spicy Thai noodles .
Figure 4 and Figure 5 correspond to “ wedding cake ” in Europe and in Mid US , respectively . We can find many of the wedding cakes in Mid US are much taller than ones in Europe .
For the scene concept “ waterfall ” , we extracted the representative photos for four large regions : Asia , Europe , North America , and South America . From the results , we can find that waterfalls in South America seem to be more powerful , while waterfalls in the Asian area are somehow more beautiful . Such kinds of implications would be helpful in guiding travels around the world .
To see more results , please visit the following website : http://imgcsuecacjp/yanai/ASRP/ . 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper , we present a novel topic which is for the purpose of generating representative photographs for typical regions in the world for mining cultural differences on the given concepts , and provide an approach to achieve it with the help of geotagged collections . The results help us understand how objects or scenes associated with the same
Figure 2 : ” Noodle ” in Japan . Chinese style noodle “ ramen ” is popular .
Figure 3 : ” Noodle ” in Europe . Most of photos are “ Spaghetti ” .
Figure 4 : ” Wedding cake ” in Mid US . Tall cakes are common . This is five layered .
Figure 5 : ” Wedding cake ” in Europe . They are much shorter and simpler than US . concept are different depending on local regions in the world visually .
For future work , we plan to make extensive experiments for more concepts from a larger set of photos , and think out some other strategies in detecting more representative regions with a more precise scope . In addition , we will conduct some quantitative evaluations on the representativeness of the photos selected for the corresponding region and the differences of the tendency of representative photo sets among different local regions . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G . Csurka , C . Bray , C . Dance , and L . Fan . Visual categorization with bags of keypoints . In Proc . of ECCV Workshop on Statistical Learning in Computer Vision , pages 59–74 , 2004 .
[ 2 ] T . Hofmann . Unsupervised learning by probabilistic latent semantic analysis . Machine Learning , 43:177–196 , 2001 .
[ 3 ] L . Kennedy and M . Naaman . Generating diverse and representative image search results for landmarks . In Proc . of the International World Wide Web Conference , pages 297–306 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] B . Qiu and K . Yanai . Objects over the world . In Proc . of
Pacific Rim Conference on Multimedia , pages 296–305 , 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091174
