Bucefalo : A Tool for Intelligent Search and Filtering for
Web based Personal Health Records
Francisco P . Romero , Jesus Serrano Guerrero , Jose A . Olivas ,
SMILE Research Group
University of Castilla La Mancha
Department of Information Technologies and Systems
Ciudad Real , Spain
{franciscop.romero , jesus.serrano , joseangelolivas}@uclmes
ABSTRACT In this poster , a tool named BUCEFALO is presented . This tool is specially designed to improve the information retrieval tasks in web based Personal Health Records ( PHR ) . This tool implements semantic and multilingual query expansion techniques and information filtering algorithms in order to help users find the most valuable information about a specific clinical case . The filtering model is based on fuzzy prototypes based filtering , data quality measures , user profiles and healthcare ontologies . The first experimental results illustrate the feasibility of this tool .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Retrieval—Information Filtering , Search Process
Information Storage and
General Terms Performance , Management .
Keywords Information Filtering , Web based Personal Health Record .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In the last years , with the expansion of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) , the individually owned and controlled webbased personal health record ( Google Health1 , Microsoft Health Vault2 and NHS HealthSpace amongst others ) have appeared . Therefore , the amount of accessible information about health care has increased enormously . This situation means that a vast amount of information of varying quality is disseminated . However , these new document repositories create new opportunities and challenges . In order to provide a more personalized and tailored service to their users , the need of an efficient and reliable information filtering process is critical .
The web based PHRs use the health data exchange standards with the aim of representing clinical data . In these
1http://wwwgooglecom/intl/es/health/about/indexhtml 2wwwhealthvaultcom
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . standards the relevant health information is reliably and unambiguously tagged using XML within a single file . The use of XML allows that this information can be read , understood and processed for any application which uses the standard . Google Health and Microsoft Health use a subset of the CCR ( Continuity of Care Record ) standard . The CCR standard is the most used patient health summary . A document in CCR format is a XML document that consists of a header , a footer , and a body of health data organized into as many as 17 sections , eg problems and conditions , medications list , allergies list , family history , procedures , encounters , etc
These web based PHRs are examples of multi user document repositories . The clinical reports can be read for different users ( nurses , physicians , students ) and for different purposes ( diagnosis , learning , research ) . When a document repository has many users and many purposes , there are different points of view of the same repository structure . Therefore , it is necessary a technique able to manage these different points of view in knowledge retrieval tasks . In this case , fuzzy logic is especially recommendable due to its special features to model information retrieval applications .
2 . METHOD AND ARCHITECTURE
BUCEFALO provides a single interface for different sources of patient records . These web based PHRs could be stored in Internet or in native XML databases ( eXist , Software AG Tamino , etc ) The user only has to send a query and the system will answer the filtered and adapted results . There are two main components in our tool , the search component and the filtering component ( Fig 1 ) . The first increases the semantic capability of user queries and the second is used to organize the retrieved information . Both are important to improve the capability of retrieving information and to adapt the answer to each user . Therefore , both are based on user profiles and healthcare ontologies . 2.1 Search Step
The search step consists of the following phases in order to transform the original user query :
1 . Abbreviations Processing : In medical records the use of abbreviations is very frequent . In order to process the query as fast as possible , the tool uses a simple efficient algorithm for extracting abbreviations and their definitions from biomedical texts implemented by Shwartz and Hearst [ 4 ] .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091077 • Fuzzy User Controller : The user controller is a set of rules implemented by a fuzzy controller which represents the user preferences .
• User Profile Filtering : The tool uses a user profile with two components . The first component is an ontological definition of the professional categories ( specialist , nurse , student ) , main search purposes ( diagnosis , research , learning ) and the user domain of knowledge . This representation is extracted from MeSH . The second component is the information feedback . Each obtained document has associated a relevance feedback button asking the user for scoring the usefulness of that result .
3 . PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENTS
Some experiments have been carried out in order to analyze the tool perfomance . First , we have built a collection of CCR documents using clinical cases extracted from Internet and CCR templates . This collection has been stored in a native XML database . Next , a test experiment has been designed with three health care proffesionals : a nurse , a physician and a researcher . In the experiment , they have analyzed ten queries transformed and expanded according to their user profiles . In this test we achieve an 85 % of correct transformations . The second user test consisted in analyzing the results obtained after the filtering process using the above mentioned queries . In this test the average number of relevant documents that were filtered was the 80 % .
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND OPEN ISSUES
This work presents a tool with the aim of improving the retrieval tasks in web based Personal Healtcare Records based on CCR XML documents . This approach will provide more relevant documents for the users , due to the consideration of their user profiles in the making search decisions and the use of several techniques of query expansion and category based filtering . At this moment , this tool is only a prototype . The next step is assessing BUCEFALO with real world sources of CCR documents and taking in account users’ dynamically changing criteria of relevance . Nevertheless , several tests with particular collections of documents have been carried out , obtaining good results .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] I . Caballero and E . Verbo . A Data Quality
Measurement Information Model based on ISO/IEC 15939 . In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Information Quality , 2007 .
[ 2 ] J . Ellman . Eurowordnet : A multilingual database with lexical semantic networks . Nat . Lang . Eng . , 9(4):427–430 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] F . P . Romero , J . A . Olivas , and P . J . Garces . Inference based on fuzzy deformable prototypes for information filtering in dynamic web repositories . In Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems , pages 1403–1408 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] A . Schwartz and M . Hearst . A simple algorithm for identifying abbreviation definitions in biomedical texts . In Proceedings of the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing ( PSB 2003 ) , pages 451 462 , 2003 .
Figure 1 : Tool Architecture
2 . Semantic Query Expansion : Once the user sends a query to the system , the first step is to build a set of additional queries that complement the original one . In these queries new terms semantically related to those of the original one are included ( synonyms , terms used to define the correct sense , concepts stored in ontologies like MeSH3 ) . This process is guided through the user profile information because the relevant terms are not the same for different users groups .
3 . Multilingual Query Expansion : Medical care is a multicultural and multilingual environment . This situation means that the information is disseminated in different languages , and therefore , it is more difficult to find the right information . When the tool processes nonEnglish documents or queries , it is used a component called InterLingual Index ( ILI ) [ 2 ] to get the equivalent meanings between different languages and to expand the query using different languages .
2.2 Filtering Step
The large volume of results that are generated after the query execution is a major problem among users . Therefore it is necessary to filter and to retrieve relevant information . In this tool , the filtering model is based on four knowledge components with the aim of improving the precision of the obtained results .
• Filtering based on Data Quality : Applying data quality principles is a useful strategy for narrowing the search space in order to minimize computational costs and to increase the user satisfaction . In this tool some data quality filtering criteria such as the reliability , completeness and timeliness are used [ 1 ] .
• Filtering based on Fuzzy Prototypes [ 3 ] : It is applied a special approach of category based filtering . In this filtering method the documents are divided into categories using concepts that ocurr in each document . These categories are organized into a fuzzy hierarchical structure and represented as fuzzy deformable prototypes . The filtering process is performed using a conceptual matching among the fuzzy prototypes and the documents contents . Since filtering is a dynamic process , the hierarchy and the prototypes are automatically updated .
3http://wwwnlmnihgov/pubs/factsheets/meshhtml
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091078
