Buzz Based Recommender System
Nish Parikh Neel Sundaresan eBay Research Labs 2065 Hamilton Ave , San Jose , CA 95125 .
1(408)376 2000
{nparikh,nsundaresan}@ebay.com
ABSTRACT In this paper , we describe a buzz based recommender system based on a large source of queries in an eCommerce application . The system detects bursts in query trends . These bursts are linked to external entities like news and inventory information to find the queries currently in demand which we refer to as buzz queries . The limited quantity merchandising , in the sense that on a per day basis the system shows recommendations around a single buzz query with the intent of increasing user curiosity , and improving activity and stickiness on the site . A semantic neighborhood of the chosen buzz query is selected and appropriate recommendations are made on products that relate to this neighborhood . the paradigm of follows system
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Information filtering .
General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation Keywords : novelty , recommenders , serendipity , buzz 1 . MOTIVATION AND BACKGROUND Research in Recommender Systems has typically focused on collaborative filtering and popular products . The downside of a popularity based approach is that products can remain popular over a long period of time impacting the novelty aspect of product finding . Our recommender system stresses on freshness , novelty , popularity and limitedness in product recommendations . Our approach is to identify products that relate to certain aspects of user behavior that are subject to huge surges and falls . We use queries as proxy for the collective user behavior and look for query bursts that are unusual and worth displaying in headlines . In the next section we describe our Buzz of the Day web system which recommends merchandise around one buzz term daily . In section 3 we describe diverse classes that cover the gamut of recommendations from our system over a long period of time . We also describe evaluation of recommendations . In section 4 we discuss the kind of recommendations generated by the system . Finally we discuss the contributions of our work and plans for future work in section 5 .
2 . BUZZ OF THE DAY Figure 1 below shows a screenshot of our social recommender Buzz of the Day application . The application displays a unique
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . page every day . Figure 1 shows the content for one particular day ( 03/04/2008 with buzz query “ scarlett johansson ” ) .
Figure 1 Screenshot for Buzz of the Day Application . It shows modules related to news , trend graph for buzz query , semantic query network and merchandise items . 2.1 Buzz Queries We use queries flowing into the eBay US site as a dataset for this application . As described in [ 1 ] we use a bi state automaton based generative model to detect bursts in queries . The bursts are ranked based on occurrence of burst query in news articles and amount of inventory matching the query . After ranking the daily query bursts in such a manner , the top burst is picked up and is used for Buzz of the Day merchandising .
2.2 Semantic Space Around the Buzz As shown in Figure 1 we not only display the buzz term and related merchandise but also a network of queries which gives the users an option to view merchandise related to a variety of terms that might be related to the buzz term . As described in [ 2 ] we build a semantic query network using textual similarity between queries ( Ts ) , similarity mined from user queries in same sessions ( Ss ) and semantic similarity based on a kernel function based on previous history of closed transactions ( Ks ) . We combine the 3 methods linearly to get a composite similarity score , where α , β and γ are coefficients which determine the weights for the different kinds of similarity methods . Every individual method has its own advantages and limitations . A combination of the three methods proves effective to get high quality recommendations . The
K γβα
T s
+
C s
=
+
S s s
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091231 network can capture specialized products related to the buzz query , competing products , similar personalities and products and also current trends .
2.3 Related News , Merchandise for sale As shown in Figure 1 , the left side of the page has a panel with related news which usually reflects the causality of the buzz . The bottom of the page displays the related merchandise on sale . By default it shows merchandise for the buzz query . When a user clicks on different query recommendations in the query network , the merchandise shown changes according to the recommendation that is clicked on . There are two emoticons on the page for social feedback , which a user can click to show liking or disappointment sentiments on viewing the page . There is a “ Surprise Me ” button , which randomly shows one Buzz of the Day page from the archives . The temporal graph indicates the intensity with which the query suddenly became popular . Also alongside the query , we show a value of the query , which is calculated based on the value of recent inventory matching that query sold on eBay . 3 . CLASSIFICATION AND EVALUATION
Figure 2 Recommendations classified into eBay taxonomy
We classified around 284 buzz recommendations from the system using eBay taxonomy . The eBay taxonomy comprises of around 25 main categories . The classification is shown in Figure 2 . As seen in the figure , the categories “ Sports Memorabilia , Cards & Fan Shop ” , “ Cell Phones & PDAs ” , “ Clothing , Shoes & Accessories ” and “ Tickets ” constitute around 43 % of total recommendations which shows that these categories are more sensitive to buzz as compared to others like “ Home “ & Garden ” , “ Stamps ” and “ Dolls & Bears ” . External systems like keywords advertising could leverage this buzz sensitivity information to optimize the price and refresh frequency of keywords . Around 13 % of buzz recommendations get classified in the “ Other ” category . These are buzz queries which cannot be tied to a specific category . They usually pertain to odd and unusual items that get listed on eBay , some examples being “ seattle toilet ” and “ virgin mary pretzel ” . We created a site http://wwwbuzzadaycom and for evaluation opened it up by invitation to 100 users . The evaluation criterion was binary . The user would click on one of the two icons indicating “ I like it ” and “ I don’t like it ” . A total of 113 votes were received and recorded . Out of these 113 votes , 83 votes were thumbs up and 30 votes were thumbs down . Around 68 unique recommendations were evaluated . We observe that popular items like “ 3g apple iphone ” and events like “ us open
It is possible that the evaluators expected the coverage of “ Tickets ” tennis ” tend to get votes from multiple evaluators and might have conflicting votes from different evaluators . 3.1 Thumbs Up Evaluations Bulk of the positively voted recommendations fell in the “ Tickets ” and “ Sports Memorabilia , Cards & Fan Shop ” categories . The impression percentage of recommendations in “ Tickets ” is 74 % However , in positively voted recommendations is around 29 % . Recommendations for tickets related to current sports , music and other events are positively received . The evaluators in general did believe that the quality of the recommendations was good which is indicated by the fact that more than 73 % of the votes were positive . An analysis of negative votes is described in section 32 3.2 Thumbs Down Evaluations An analysis of the recommendations that were voted down showed some interesting facts . It was observed that the recommendations provided for February 14th 2008 ( Barack Obama ; related to presidential campaign ) and April 1st 2008 ( Ric Flair ; related to his last wrestling game ) were given a negative vote . the recommendations to be around Valentine ’s day and April Fool ’s day respectively . As the recommendations are based on purchase behavior and demand bursts , in fact recommendations related to a seasonal event are usually seen before the event . For example , a recommendation for “ valentine post cards ” is seen on February 10th 2008 , when people start looking for valentine ’s day related products as Also , some specific recommendations based on eBay activity tend to get voted negatively possibly because evaluators don’t have sufficient context for it . 4 . RECOMMENDATIONS Timely recommendations for products related to buzz queries can have a significant commercial benefit . eBay is a large and diverse marketplace , and we are able to merchandise inventory pertaining to celebrities and sports stars , historical items , tickets for events , seasonal items and also new products . Depending on external events and time of the year the system might recommend items ranging from cheap easter dresses to expensive dodge cars . 5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we described a social recommender system which incorporates novelty , popularity , serendipity and limited quantity merchandising based on wisdom of crowds . We also showed how some categories are more sensitive to external buzz events than others . As part of future work we would like to personalize buzz recommendations based on user history and recommendations . We would also like to incorporate community reaction and feedback to improve the recommendations . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Parikh N . , Sundaresan N . Scalable and near real time burst detection the day approaches . from eCommerce queries . KDD 2008 . 972 980 .
[ 2 ] Parikh N . , Sundaresan N . Inferring Semantic Query Relations from Collective User Behavior . CIKM 2008 , Napa , CA , October 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091232
