Analysis of Community Structure in Wikipedia ( Poster )
Dmitry Lizorkin
Inst . for System Programming , Russian Academy of Sciences lizorkin@ispras.ru
Olena Medelyan
Computer Science Dept .
Univ . of Waikato , New Zealand olena@cswaikatoacnz
Maria Grineva
Inst . for System Programming , Russian Academy of Sciences rekouts@ispras.ru
ABSTRACT We present the results of a community detection analysis of the Wikipedia graph . Distinct communities in Wikipedia contain semantically closely related articles . The central topic of a community can be identified using PageRank . Extracted communities can be organized hierarchically similar to manually created Wikipedia category structure .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I24 [ Knowledge Representation ] : Semantic Networks ; H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Clustering
General Terms Experimentation
Keywords Graph analysis , community detection , Wikipedia
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The category structure in Wikipedia is created by human contributors to thematically organize articles.1 However , the information it reveals about the semantics of Wikipedia is not complete and not always reliable . For instance , it contains inaccuracies like Domestic Pig ⊂Pork and cycles , like The Beatles ⊂Apple Records artists ⊂Apple Records ⊂Apple Corps ⊂The Beatles , where “ ⊂ ” means belongs to category . It seems that Wikipedia is becoming too large for human contributors to grasp its knowledge organization without machine aided tools . We propose a new approach to automatic hierarchical organization of Wikipedia articles . We apply a state of the art community detection algorithm to Wikipedia graph to identify individual communities . These contain semantically related articles with one central topic computed using PageRank . Re applying this analysis to large communities creates a meaningful hierarchy , which reflects the underlying link structure of the encyclopedia .
2 . COMMUNITIES IN WIKIPEDIA
The notion of a community structure builds on a common characteristic of many complex real world networks ,
1http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Wikipedia:Categorization
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
Figure 1 : Connectivity in a sample small community like computer networks and social networks . Their graphs commonly contain densely connected groups of nodes called communities , which are in turn sparsely connected with each other . Community detection algorithms analyze node connections in a graph and divide it into a number of such dense subgraphs , or communities . We use the popular GirvanNewman algorithm [ 2 ] that creates graph partitions based on modularity : a measure comparing connectivity in a community division to that of a graph with random connections between nodes . Modularity values ranging from 0.3 to 0.7 indicate a distinguishable community structure .
While other network analysis methods , like PageRank and HITS algorithms , were applied to the Wikipedia graph before [ 1 ] , this is the first experiment analyzing its community structure . Given the original graph covering 4.1M nodes of the English Wikipedia,2 we first , for computational reasons , restrict it to meaningful links : see also , category links , links to main page , mutual links , links between articles from the same category . This produces several intra connected components , the largest with 1.1M nodes and 4.6M edges . Running the community detection algorithm on this component took over four days and produced 2,038 communities with a high modularity value of 063
Although the largest community contains over 300K nodes ,
2http://enwikipediaorg , snapshot of August 2008
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091221 Community with 50 nodes
Community with 640 nodes
Top PageRank Category:American football formations
American football strategy
Trick play Swinging Gate ( American football )
Middle PageRank Flea flicker
Notre Dame Box A formation
Lowest PageRank Fly ( American football )
Zone coverage
Suwanotaira Station
0.1542 List of railroad related periodicals 0.0599 Category:Rail transport magazines 0.0552 M250 series 0.0133 0.0132 Category:Stations of Enoshima Electric Railway 0.0130 Category:Railway stations of Japan by company 0.0030 Category:Enoshima Electric Railway Line 0.0030 Kawaguchi Station 0.0030 Maruoka Station
0.1028 0.0542 0.0432 0.0023 0.0023 0.0023 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002
Table 1 : Wikipedia article titles with top , middle and lowest PageRank scores in two sample communities
99 % of communities consist of less than 2K nodes each . The distribution of their sizes is close to the power law , with a few large and a long tail of small communities,–a consequence of Wikipedia being a scale free graph .
Individual communities , particularly small ones , contain heavily inter connected nodes , which all relate to a common topic , see Figure 1 . Evaluation of semantic similarity [ 3 ] of Wikipedia articles shows that average similarity of randomly chosen nodes is close to zero . However , nodes in communities up to 50 and 1000 nodes are on average 35 % and 25 % related , respectively .
3 . MAIN TOPICS IN COMMUNITIES
To identify the central node , or main topic , in a semantically cohesive community , we apply the PageRank algorithm , where the highest PageRank score indicates centrality . For example , the top scoring node in Figure 1 is the term List of tallest buildings in Croatia , which also corresponds to the human intuition .
Table 1 shows PageRank statistics for two communities with 50 and 640 nodes sampled at three levels depending on their scores . Terms in the 50 nodes community are all related to strategies and formation building in American football . The two top scoring terms summarize the main subject as American football strategy and Category:American football formations . Terms with average and low PageRank values refer to specific strategies ( Notre Dame Box ) or terminology used to described these ( Zone Coverage ) .
Analysis of the 640 nodes community is less straightforward . Here , two subjects appear to be mixed up : railroadrelated periodicals and Japanese railway stations , with a common general topic railway . We conclude that top ranked terms in smaller communities can be treated as their main topics , but larger communities first need to be further subdivided into more coherent subtopics .
4 .
INFERRING THE HIERARCHY
Following the above findings , we re apply the community detection algorithm to large communities to derive secondlevel communities . The largest first level community has been divided into 349 second level communities . The modularity values of these divisions are again very high , confirming that such groupings are semantically meaningful . The size distribution again follows the power law .
We now recursively divide each large community into subcommunities using modularity values as quality indicators . This creates a hierarchy of communities as plotted in Figure 2 . Each circle placed within another circle denotes a sub
Figure 2 : Hierarchically organized communities community of a parent community , with circle sizes roughly illustrating the relative community sizes . Interestingly , in each recursive subdivision , the largest sub community takes up approximately 25 % of its parent community . These properties of hierarchical community structure in the Wikipedia graph are typical for scale free graphs , and the extracted communities inherit these properties .
5 . CONCLUSIONS
The entire Wikipedia graph can be automatically organized into a hierarchy of communities comprising thematically related Wikipedia articles . Combined with the PageRank analysis to identify their central topics , we can automatically produce an ontological structure similar to the existing Wikipedia category tree . Evaluation of the accuracy of such structure will be a part of our future work , however the initial experiments demonstrate the potential of our method .
The community detection analysis is fully language independent . Thus , it will be particular useful for Wikipedias in languages , where a category structure is not as well developed as in the English Wikipedia . Furthermore , community detection analysis could be used to improve existing categories , created by humans without the knowledge of the integral hyperlink organization , or to augment Wikipedia search results with same community terms .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] F . Bellomi and R . Bonato . Network analysis for
Wikipedia . In Wikimania , 2005 .
[ 2 ] A . Clauset , M . E . J . Newman , and C . Moore . Finding community structure in very large networks . Physical Review E , 70:066111 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] D . Milne and I . Witten . An effective , low cost measure of semantic relatedness obtained from Wikipedia links . In Wikipedia and AI workshop at the AAAI , 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091222
