Graffiti : Node Labeling in Heterogeneous Networks
Ralitsa Angelova
Gjergji Kasneci
Max Planck Institute for Informatics , Saarbruecken , Germany angelova , kasneci , suchanek , weikum@mpi infmpgde
Fabian M . Suchanek
Gerhard Weikum
Abstract We introduce a multi label classification model and algorithm for labeling heterogeneous networks , where nodes belong to different types and different types have different sets of classification labels . We present a graph based approach which models the mutual influence between nodes in the network as a random walk . When viewing class labels as “ colors ” , the random surfer is “ spraying ” different node types with different color palettes ; hence the name Graffiti . We demonstrate the performance gains of our method by comparing it to three state of the art techniques for graph based classification .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I52 [ Pattern Recognition ] : Classifier design and evaluation ; G.3 [ Probability and statistics ] : Markov processes General Terms Graph Classification , Link Analysis 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Heterogeneous graphs are developing faster than ever . In the context of the rapidly growing social networks ( eg Flickr , Delicious , LibraryThing , LinkedIn ) , heterogeneous graphs are formed by encoding users , their postings like photos , bookmarks , book descriptions , ratings , etc . , and other contextual information as graph nodes , belonging to different node types but co existing and mutually influencing each other in the graph [ 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 12 ] . Heterogeneous graphs are formed in many other areas like medical domains ( containing information about patients , treatments , diseases , contacts ) or e commerce platforms ( representing the complex interactions between different types of nodes like users , products , customers , rating , reviews , etc )
In this paper we present a novel graph based algorithm that aims at classifying each node as belonging to one or more labels from a finite set of type specific labels . Let us use a toy example to illustrate the goal of the algorithm . If you consider the social network flickr , a user is more likely to belong to the class Outdoor activity fans if she has frequently used tags belonging to the class Mountain and/or she has viewed , commented and posted photos classified as Nature Photography . In this example , the graph G = ( V , E ) contains nodes from set V = {V1 ∪ Vk . . . ∪ Vt} that belong to
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . one of three types Vk ( here t = 3 ) : user , photo or tag . The relations between them are represented as edges E which either connect two nodes of the same type or connect two nodes belonging to different types . To ease referring to the edges , we will use the abbreviation S edges for the same type edges and X edges for the cross type edges . An example of an S link formation would be a friendship connection between two users . Note that heterogeneous graphs contain an overwhelming number of X links and few S links . Therefore , graph based classification methods , designed to derive class labels based on direct links between the graph nodes will degrade in their performance , because most direct links connect different types of nodes with type specific classes . The model we propose is able to leverage the prominent influence of X links , as a powerful tool to facilitate class inference across different type nodes .
Let us think of class labels as colors . We model the mutual influence of nodes as a random walk , in which an intelligent surfer carries different color spray cans , and while walking in the graph is coloring all its nodes by spraying different node types with different color palettes . The color she would choose and the types of links she would follow to reach other nodes is described in a mathematically sound framework outlined below .
2 . FRAMEWORK AND ALGORITHM
Graffiti models the influence among nodes of the same type by looking at their common neighbors , which typically belong to other types . We base the strength of the mutual influence between nodes v , v ∈ Vk on two criteria :
• The bigger the overlap of shared neighbors , the higher the influence of v and v on each other .
• The bigger the mutual influence among shared neighbors , the higher the influence of v and v on each other . These criteria are incorporated in the random walk the Graffiti surfer takes by giving him the possibility at each node to either perform a two hop walk , spreading colors to same type nodes via heterogeneous common neighbors ( thus following two X edges ) , perform a one hop walk to any node of v ’s heterogeneous neighborhood ( following a Xor S edge ) , or choose at random any node from G ( perform a random jump ) .
The model associates each node with two vectors : a prior class label probability distribution of v , denoted by λ(v ) = ( λ1(v ) , . . . , λn(v))T , smoothed over the domain of all possible classes C ; and a vector µ(v ) that captures the classspecific ( graph topological ) importance of a node . The latter
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091087 measure represents a topic biased authority , where µi(v ) describes the importance of v for class ci . When performing a two hop step from v to a node v ∈ type Vk , the surfer reaches into her pocket and decides to use the same color ci she used at v , in order to paint v , with a probability that is proportional to the authority of µi(v ) . When the surfer decides to use another color cj for v , she chooses that color with probability proportional to µi(v ) , dampened by λj(v ) ( thus changing the color from ci to cj ) . That is , the prior for color cj of node v has a certain stickiness . The random surfer spreads equal portions of the selected color on all nodes of Vk that share Vl neighbors with v . Similarly , when the surfer decides to perform a one hop walk from v to a neighboring node v ∈ Vk ∪ Vl , she can use any color cj with a probability proportional to µ(v ) , dampened by λj(v ) .
Finally , when the surfer decides to randomly jump to any node u in the graph , she chooses a color ci to paint u with probability proportional to λi(u)/|V | .
This random walk model includes the following compo nents :
• the probability that the random surfer performs a ran dom jump J ,
• the probability that she follows an X link path from node v to a node v of the same type , spraying the same color as in the starting node v F 2 same color ,
• the probability that she follows an X link path from node v to a node v of the same type , spraying another color F 2 change color ,
• and the probability of following a link to any node of the heterogeneous neighborhood F 1 . class ci is given by
Finally , the importance of a node v ∈ Vk with respect to µi(v ) = P [ v , ci , J ] +
P [ v , v , ci , ci , F 2 v∈Vk P [ v , v , cj , ci , F 2 same color ] change color ] +
P [ u , v , cj , ci , F 1 ] .
+ v∈Vk j j
We prove that Graffiti ’s random walk corresponds to a stochastic process and has desired properties like convergence and a unique solution . Details are omitted due to shortage of space . We implemented and tested the framework using real world data from the social network flickr .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL VALIDATION
We crawled a subgraph from the flickr network where people share personal photos and attach tags to photos . Our crawl contains approximately 231,000 nodes , roughly 4,000 users , 123,000 photos and 104,000 tags . There are close to 3,000,000 links , out of which only 23,000 are same type edges . We use the same set of class labels for all three node types . Note that even if two nodes from different types have the same label , they are conceptually different , since the labels are type specific ( ie User.ci is different from Photoci ) We use the following labels : 1 ) Animals , 2 ) Birds , 3 ) Architecture , 4 ) Portrait , and 5 ) Nature . These are explicit category names in flickr itself .
We compare the performance of different classifiers based on the precision/recall break even point ( hence , also equal to the micro averaged F 1 measure ) [ 10 ] , which is a typical measure for the effectiveness of a multi label classifier . As we produce a vector of predictions , we would also like to test to what extent the order of class probabilities in the ground truth is reflected in the prediction vector . Therefore , we compared the rankings provided by the ground truth vector and the prediction vector by using the normalized discounted cumulative gain ( NDCG).We also compared both vectors in terms of ranking the class probabilities using the well known Kendall ’s tau measure .
We compare the performance of five classifiers : a text only classifier , in our case a Naive Bayesian ( NB ) classifier , which serves as initializer of the topical distribution per node in the graph ; a hybrid classifier ( HC ) , that uses the links in a node ’s neighborhood to enhance its node representation and later on applies a weighted voting scheme to decide on the most probable class of a node [ 9 ] ; the proposed method Graffiti that takes as initial class distribution the predictions returned by the NB text only classifier ( the baseline ) ; a topical PageRank approach [ 8 ] ( TPR ) ; and an iterative Relaxation Labeling ( RL ) approach from the family of graphical models , that builds on , but extends and generalizes earlier work [ 1 , 2 ] .
Table 1 shows results for an experiment with a training set of 1,000 labeled nodes and a test set of 230,000 unlabeled nodes . Methods requiring initialization use the same baseline . All gains in Table 1 are statistically significant with a t test level of 005
System microF1 NDCG K.Tau 0.3060 NB Graffiti 0.3278 0.3160 TPR 0.2051 RL HC 0.2685 Table 1 : Performance comparison
0.7797 0.7930 0.7863 0.6767 0.7579
0.5195 0.5407 0.5293 0.2830 0.4781
Overall , these and other experiments ( omitted here for space restrictions ) provide clear evidence for the superiority of the proposed method Graffiti . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Angelova,R . , Weikum,G . Graph based Text Classification :
Learn from Your Neighbors . SIGIR , 2006 .
[ 2 ] Chakrabarti,S . , Dom,BE , Indyk,P . Enhanced hypertext categorization using hyperlinks . SIGMOD , 1998 .
[ 3 ] Getoor , L . Link mining : a new data mining challenge . ACM
SIGKDD , 2003
[ 4 ] Getoor,L . and Taskar , B . Introduction to Statistical
Relational Learning ( Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning ) . The MIT Press , 2007 .
[ 5 ] Getoor,L . , Diehl,CP Link mining : a survey . KDD , 2005 . [ 6 ] Jarvelin , K . , Kekalainen , J . IR evaluation methods for retrieving highly relevant documents . ACM SIGIR , 2000 . [ 7 ] Macskassy , S . A . , Provost , F . Classification in Networked
Data : A toolkit and a univariate case study . Journal of Machine Learning , 8(May):935 983 , 2007 .
[ 8 ] Nie,L . , Davison,BD , Qi,X . Topical link analysis for web search . SIGIR , 2006 .
[ 9 ] Oh,H J , Myaeng,SH , Lee,M . A practical hypertext catergorization method using links and incrementally available class information . SIGIR , 2000 .
[ 10 ] Thorsten , Joachims . Transductive Inference for Text
Classification using Support Vector Machines . ICML , 1999 .
[ 11 ] Wang,F . , Zhang,C . Label Propagation Through Linear
Neighborhoods . ICML’06 .
[ 12 ] Wu T F , Lin , C J , Weng,RC Probability Estimates for Multi class Classification by Pairwise Coupling . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 2004 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091088
