A General Framework for Adaptive and Online
Detection of Web attacks
Wei Wang∗
Project AxIS , INRIA Sophia
Antipolis
2004 route des lucioles 06902 Sophia Antipolis
FRANCE
Florent Masseglia
Project AxIS , INRIA Sophia
Antipolis
2004 route des lucioles 06902 Sophia Antipolis
FRANCE wwangemail@gmail.com florentmasseglia@sophiainriafr
Thomas Guyet
Projet DREAM , IRISA Campus de Beaulieu
35042 Rennes , FRANCE thomasguyet@irisafr
Rene Quiniou
Projet DREAM , IRISA Campus de Beaulieu
35042 Rennes , FRANCE renequiniou@irisafr
Marie Odile Cordier Projet DREAM , IRISA Campus de Beaulieu
35042 Rennes , FRANCE marie odilecordier@irisafr
ABSTRACT Detection of web attacks is an important issue in current defense in depth security framework . In this paper , we propose a novel general framework for adaptive and online detection of web attacks . The general framework can be based on any online clustering methods . A detection model based on the framework is able to learn online and deal with “ concept drift ” in web audit data streams . Str DBSCAN that we extended DBSCAN [ 1 ] to streaming data as well as StrAP [ 3 ] are both used to validate the framework . The detection model based on the framework automatically labels the web audit data and adapts to normal behavior changes while identifies attacks through dynamical clustering of the streaming data . A very large size of real HTTP Log data collected in our institute is used to validate the framework and the model . The preliminary testing results demonstrated its effectiveness .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C20 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : General— Security and protection
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement , Security
Keywords Anomaly detection , Intrusion detection , Clustering
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Anomaly intrusion detection is a widely studied topic in computer networks because of its capability of detecting ∗The author has moved to Q2S Center of Excellence , NTNU , Norway .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . novel attacks . Anomaly detection normally builds a profile of a subject ’s normal activities and attempts to identify any unacceptable deviation as possibly the result of an attack . Many existing anomaly IDSs ( Intrusion Detection System ) have some difficulties for practical use .
First , a large amount of precisely labeled data is very difficult to obtain in practice . In contrast , many existing anomaly detection approaches need precisely labeled data to train the detection model . Second , data for intrusion detection is typically steaming and the detection models should be frequently updated with new incoming labeled data . However , many existing anomaly detection methods involve off line learning . Quickly and manually labeling the data is difficult and thus it is quite expensive to frequently re train the IDS with new clean labeled data . Third , many current anomaly detection approaches assume that the data distribution is stationary and the model is static accordingly . In practice , however , data involved in current network environments always evolves . An effective anomaly detection method , therefore , should have adaptive capability to deal with the “ concept drift ” problem . That is , the model should be automatically updated to adapt to normal behaviors when there is a change detected .
2 . THE FRAMEWORK
Our framework has a assumption that normal data is very large while abnormal data is rare in practical detection environments . During the clustering process , we use the size as well as looseness of each cluster to identify the anomalies . Our framework adaptively detects attacks with the following three steps ( the pseudo code is described in Fig 1 ) .
• Step 1 . Building the initial model with some online clustering algorithms . The first bunch of data is clustered and the exemplars ( or cluster centers ) as well as their associated items are thus obtained . Some outliers are identified , marked as suspicious and then put into a reservoir .
• Step 2 . Identifying outliers and updating the model in the data streaming environment . As the audit data
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091141 stream flows in , each incoming data item is compared to the exemplars . If too far from the nearest exemplar , the item is identified as an outlier , marked as suspicious and then put into the reservoir . Otherwise the item is regarded as normal and the model is updated accordingly with the normal item .
• Step 3 . Rebuilding the model and identifying attacks . The model rebuilding criterion is triggered if the number of incoming outliers exceeds a threshold or if a time period is up to another threshold . The detection model is rebuilt with the current exemplars and with the outliers in the reservoir , using the clustering algorithm again . An attack is identified if an outlier in the reservoir is marked as suspicious once again after the model rebuilding .
Audit data stream x1 , . . . xt , . . . ; fit threshold N , ǫ Clustering ( x1 , . . . , xT ) with some clustering algorithms ei is the exemplar ( clustering center ) of one cluster ni is the number of items in exemplar ei µi is the mean sum of the distances between each ex emplar ei and its corresponding items Reservoir = {} if ni ≤ N or µi ≥ ǫ then
Reservoir ← all items xj in ei end if for t > T do find ei which is the nearest exemplar to item xt if d(ei , xt ) < ǫ then
Update model else
Reservoir ← xt end if if change detected then
Rebuild the model ( Re clustering ) Consider all the exemplars ej in Reservoir if ej appears at least twice in Reservoir and ( nj ≤ N or µj ≥ ǫ ) then all the items in ej are attacks else
Update the model end if end if end for
Fig 1 . Pseudo code of the framework
3 . DETECTION MODELS BASED ON THE
FRAMEWORK
The detection models can be based on any online clustering algorithms . We extend DBSCAN [ 1 ] to Str DBSCAN that is suitable for clustering streaming data . The StrDBSCAN as well as a newly invented StrAP [ 3 ] are both used to build the detection models based on the framework , because these two clustering algorithms have no need to define the number of clusters beforehand .
DBSCAN is a density based clustering algorithm . After the initial clustering , each cluster is represented by an exemplar that is closest to its center . In data streaming environments , upon a “ concept change ” has been detected , Str DBSCAN clusters all the current exemplars as well as the outliers that are the points far from the exemplars . During the clustering , we continually update the exemplars with some weights , so that some exemplars will be forgotten if they seldom appear in a period while some exemplars will be strengthened if they appear very frequently .
Affinity Propagation ( AP ) is a recently developed clustering algorithm and Zhang et al . extended it to StrAP in data steaming environments . AP clusters an initial data set and finds some exemplars to represent each cluster . In streaming environments , similarly StrAP continually updates the clusters and deal with “ concept drift ” in the data streams .
4 . EXPERIMENTS AND CONCLUSION
In the experiments , we collected a very large data set of HTTP logs on the main Apache server of our institute for web attack detection . We also used another 35 different types of attack ( http://wwwi picom/HTTP attacks JoCN2006 [ 2 ] ) to increase the number of attacks . To facilitate comparison , we also used k NN to build a static model for attack detection . We set k=1 and compute the closest Euclidean distance between an incoming test vector X and each vector in the training data set . X is classified as anomalous if its closest distance is above a pre defined threshold .
100
)
%
( e t a R n o i t c e t e D
80
60
40
20
0
StrAP kNN Str−DBSCAN
5 10 False Positive Rate ( % )
15
Fig 2 . ROC curves with Str DBSCAN , StrAP and k NN
ROC curves ( Detection Rates against False Positive Rates ) are presented in Fig 1 to show the testing results . It is seen that adaptive anomaly detection methods , Str DBSCAN as well as StrAP , are more effective than static detection method , k NN , because adaptive methods adopt to the behavioral changes while the static method does not . The adaptive methods are also effecient than static method because adaptive methods summarize the historical data into some simple concepts ( eg , exemplars ) while the static method does not . Web attack detection is becoming important as Web based vulnerabilities represent a substantial portion of the security exposures of computer networks . Our framework is effective to detect attacks in an online and adaptive fashion without a priori knowledge ( eg , data distribution as well as labeled information ) .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Ester . A density based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise . In KDD , 1996 .
[ 2 ] K . Ingham and H . Inoue . Comparing anomaly detection techniques for http . In 10th International Symposium on Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection , 2007 .
[ 3 ] X . Zhang , C . Furtlehner , and M . Sebag . Data streaming with affinity propagation . In ECML/PKDD , 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091142
