Detecting Image Spam Using Local Invariant Features and Pyramid Match Kernel
Haiqiang Zuo Weiming Hu Ou Wu Yunfei Chen Guan Luo
National Laboratory of Pattern Recognition , Institute of Automation
Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing , China
{ hqzuo , wmhu , wuou , yfchen , gluo }@nlpriaaccn
ABSTRACT Image spam is a new obfuscating method which spammers invented to more effectively bypass conventional text based spam filters . In this paper , we extract local invariant features of images and run a one class SVM classifier which uses the pyramid match kernel as the kernel function to detect image spam . Experimental results demonstrate that our algorithm is effective for fighting image spam .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval –Clustering , Information filtering .
General Terms : Algorithms , Security . Keywords Image spam , pyramid match kernel , local invariant features .
1 . INTRODUCTION Email spam , also known as unsolicited bulk e mail or junk e mail has become a scourge for us who just want to peacefully receive and send email . Many spam thwarting programs have been developed that inspect words , phrases , mailing histories , IP addresses , and other aspects of an email . Some of which , like the CRM114 [ 1 ] has achieved a terminal accuracy of better than 99.99 % for filtering text based spam . Just as the classic battle of virus and antivirus , spammers explore new technologies in an effort to keep one step ahead of spam filters . Spammers' latest obfuscating method involves image spam , in which the main payload of the spam message is carried as an embedded image . Usually , the body of image spam contains no text or only bogus text , and the conventional text based spam filters therefore failed to detect and block it . Most of spams that break through the authors’ personal anti spam defences are image spams . Meanwhile , image spam can be more fascinating and convincing than text alone . Image spam is reported accounting for roughly 40 percent of all spam traffic now , and is still on the rise . In recent years , many academic researchers and software security companies have turned their attention to investigating more constructive technologies to filter image spam . Approaches mainly differ in the set of features used to represent the image spam . Dredze et al . [ 2 ] established a fast image spam detection system which used simple image features like file format , file size , image metadata , average color and so on . Mehta et al . [ 3 ] exploited visual features , such as color , texture and shape to train a SVM classifier combining near duplicate detection and gained promising results . Our previous
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . work [ 4 ] involved extracting global Fourier Mellin invariant features to fight image spam .
Figure 1 . Extracting spam image from email .
2 . LOCAL INVARIANT FEATURES To avoid near duplicate detection , spammers often change the layout of the advertisement and produce a series of variations . However , in these variations there will always be some regions remain the same . For example , the picture of a Viagra pill will always appear in a Viagra advertisement image spam . Instead of extracting global features , in this paper , we explore local invariant features . Local invariant features are able to find correspondences in spite of large changes in viewing conditions , occlusions , and image clutter .
( a)MSER ( b)SURF Figure 2 . Local invariant features .
A large number of local invariant features have been proposed in the literature . Among them , the MSER[5 ] and SURF [ 6 ] detector showed good accuracy and stability on our image spam detection application . Figure 1 shows the original image extracted from a
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091187 spam , and figure 2 demonstrates the local invariant features detected with the MSER and SURF detectors .
3 . PYRAMID MATCH KERNEL Grauman and Darrell [ 7][8 ] proposed a vocabulary guided ( VG ) pyramid match kernel for computing an approximate bipartite partial matching between two unordered , variable sized sets of feature vectors . Rather than carve the feature space into uniformlyshaped partitions , the authors let the structure of the feature space determine the partitions . To accomplish this , they performed hierarchical k means clustering on a sample of representative feature vectors drawn from the feature space and built a pyramid tree . Given the bin structure of the VG pyramid , a point set X is mapped to its pyramid : Ψ(X ) =[H0(X ) , . . . ,HL−1(X) ] , where Hi(X ) is a kidimensional histogram associated with level i in the pyramid . L , k are the number of levels in the tree and the branching factor respectively . Given two point sets’ pyramid encodingsΨ(X ) andΨ(Y ) , the pyramid match kernel is defined as :
L
1 − i k k
( ij ij
⎡ ⎣
(
( ij
−
=
( h i
0 = j
1 =
X
) ,
Ψ
) ,
) ) ,
K Δ
ω ij
( ( Ψ
( ) )
∑ h 1 =
Y ( ) ) min( min(
∑∑ n X n Y ij c n X c n Y h
] ( ) ) ) Where nij(• ) denote the number of histogram counts corresponding to the jth bin entry of histogram Hi(• ) , and ch(nij(• ) ) refer to the number of histogram counts for the hth child bin of that entry , 1≤h≤k . The weights ωij are the sum of stored maximal to center distances from either input set . 4 . EXPERIMENTS Our legitimate image email ( also called non spam or ham ) corpus is made up 2839 images , which include 832 our homegrown ham images and Dredze et al . ’s valid 2007 personal ham images . Dredze et al . have removed all images considered private and the released ham data are smaller than they used in references [ 2 ] . Our image spam corpus have 3885 images in all , 2173 images taken from SpamArchive corpus ( removing duplicates ) , and 1712 images taken from our personal spam . The MSER and SURF detectors are used to find interest points in each image , and SIFT[9 ] , shape contexts ( SC ) [ 10 ] , SURF descriptors are used to compose the feature sets . A one class SVM classifier which uses the pyramid match kernel as the kernel function is trained using the spam corpus alone . Choosing a oneclass classifier in our experiments in that the spam dataset is easily accessible , but a representative set of legitimate emails is usually difficult to collect , due to privacy concerns . The legitimate emails provided in our experiments are only used as part of the test collection and evaluate the classifier ’s accuracy . We assessed our method by using 10 fold cross validation . The spam corpus was randomly divided into 10 folds , and one fold was left together with the non spam corpus as the test set and the other folds were used for training . The experiment was repeated 10 times , and the classification result was calculated by averaging over 10 runs . Figure 3 demonstrates our experimental results . It can be seen that when using the SURF detector and descriptor , the algorithm reaches the best performance . The highest accuracy we achieved is over 98.5 % which is comparable with most of the text based spam filtering algorithm , and that is a promising result .
1
0.98 y c a r u c c A
0.96
0.94
0.92
MSER + SC MSER + SIFT SURF
0.9
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.7 Fraction of Training Data
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.9
Figure 3 . Experimental results .
The number of average local invariant features detected by SURF detector in each image is 447 , however the number of average local invariant features detected by MSER detector in each image is 153 . That means using MSER detector only needs a smaller time and space consumption . With this in mind , using the MSER detector and SIFT descriptor is also a good choice . 5 . CONCLUSIONS We have extracted local invariant features of images and run a oneclass SVM classifier which uses the pyramid match kernel as the kernel function to detect image spam . Promising results have been obtained in our experiments . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is partly supported by NSFC ( Grant No . 60825204 and 60672040 ) and the National 863 High Tech R&D Program of China ( Grant No . 2006AA01Z453 ) . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] CRM114 the Controllable Regex Mutilator . http://crm114sourceforgenet/
[ 2 ] M . Dredze , R . Gevaryahu , A . Elias Bachrach . Learning Fast
Classifiers for Image Spam . CEAS , 2007 .
[ 3 ] B . Mehta , S . Nangia , M . Gupta . Detecting image spam using visual features and near duplicate detection . WWW , 2008 . [ 4 ] HQ Zuo , X . Li , O . Wu , WM Hu , G . Luo . Image spam filtering using Fourier Mellin invariant features . ICASSP , 2009 .
[ 5 ] J . Matas , O . Chum , M . Urban , and T . Pajdla . Robust wide baseline stereo from maximally stable extremal regions . BMVC , 2002 .
[ 6 ] H . Bay , T . Tuytelaars , and L . Van Gool . SURF : Speeded up robust features . ECCV , 2006 .
[ 7 ] K . Grauman and T . Darrell . Approximate Correspondences in
High Dimensions . NIPS , 2007 .
[ 8 ] Lee , John J . LIBPMK : A Pyramid Match Toolkit http://hdlhandlenet/17211/41070
[ 9 ] D . Lowe . Distinctive Image Features from Scale Invariant
Keypoints . IJCV , 2004 .
[ 10 ] S . Belongie , J . Malik , and J . Puzicha . Shape Matching and
Object Recognition Using Shape Contexts . PAMI , 2002 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091188
