Extracting Community Structure through Relational
Hypergraphs
Yu Ru Lin1 Jimeng Sun2 Paul Castro2 Ravi Konuru2 Hari Sundaram1 Aisling Kelliher1
1Arts Media and Engineering
Program , Arizona State University ,
Tempe , AZ 85281 USA
2IBM TJ Watson Research Center ,
Hawthorne , NY 10532 USA
{yu ru.lin , hari.sundaram , aislingkelliher}@asuedu , {jimeng , castrop,rkonuru}@usibmcom
ABSTRACT Social media websites promote diverse user interaction on media objects as well as user actions with respect to other users . The goal of this work is to discover community structure in rich media social networks , and observe how it evolves over time , through analysis of multi relational data . The problem is important in the enterprise domain where extracting emergent community structure on enterprise social media , can help in forming new collaborative teams , aid in expertise discovery , and guide long term enterprise reorganization . Our approach consists of three main parts : ( 1 ) a relational hypergraph model for modeling various social context and interactions ; ( 2 ) a novel hypergraph factorization method for community extraction on multi relational social data ; ( 3 ) an online method to handle temporal evolution through incremental hypergraph factorization . Extensive experiments on real world enterprise data suggest that our technique is scalable and can extract meaningful communities . To evaluate the quality of our mining results , we use our method to predict users’ future interests . Our prediction outperforms baseline methods ( frequency counts , pLSA ) by 36 250 % on the average , indicating the utility of leveraging multi relational social context by using our method .
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications—
Data mining ; H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] :
Information Search and Retrieval—Information filtering
General Terms
Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement , Theory
Keywords
Community Evolution , Relational Hypergraph , Non negative Tensor Factorization , Dynamic Social Network Analysis
1 . INTRODUCTION Today , users routinely produce and consume media as well as interact with each other on social networking websites ( eg Flickr , facebook ) . These sites allow a wide array of actions on media objects ( eg uploading photos and bookmarking ) , as well as actions with respect to other users ( eg instant messaging ) . The interaction among users can be explicit ( eg via instant messaging ) , or implicit ( two users may share similar tags , or read a common post ) . Enterprises have increasingly embraced social media software to promote collaboration . Such social media ( Wikis , bookmark sharing , etc . ) foster dynamic collaboration patterns that deviate from the formal organizational structure ( eg
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
( a )
( b )
( c )
Figure 1 : ( a ) an example of facets and relations in an collaborative environment ; ( b ) a relational hypergraph for representing ( a ) ; ( c ) implicit community structure in ( a ) – C1 and C2 are two clusters we want to identify .
( a ) cooperate departments , etc ) The primary motivation for this work is to extract emergent community structure in the enterprise through the analysis of user interaction over social media . This will have significant impact – it can help foster new collaborative teams , help with expertise discovery and in the long term , guide enterprise reorganization consistent with collaboration patterns .
In this work , we define a community to be a group of people who interact with resources ( eg bookmarks ) as well as with each other in a coherent manner . We model the social interaction among users as a hypergraph – where users are related to each other via one or more relations , and a relation involves two or more entities ( eg bookmarking involves users , documents and tags ) . Our goal is to answer the following questions : ( 1 ) How to model multirelational social data ? ( 2 ) How the underlying communities consistent across multiple relations ? ( 3 ) How to track those communities over time ? to reveal
Related work . The structure of interactions among people have been modeled as clustering structure [ 2 ] in a bipartite graph . Multi relational social network analysis concerns networks involving more than two types of entities . Existing techniques include tensor based analysis [ 2 ] or multi graph mining [ 3 ] , which do not take advantage of the relational sparsity in different context , or only deal with a particular relational context . We propose a flexible and efficient framework that exploits various relational context in social networks .
We introduce the Relational Hypergraph Model that captures the interactions between a set of facets ( eg users , projects , etc ) We propose an analytic method , Hypergraph Factorization , to find consistent and soft communities on both static and time evolving
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091213 factorization with many desirable properties : social data . Our method is based on novel nonnegative multitensor ( 1 ) theoretically sound with convergence guarantee ; ( 2 ) scalable to data size ; ( 3 ) sparse solution that fits social network data ; ( 4 ) probabilistic interpretation . We demonstrate the applicability of our method on real world enterprise data , with excellent results .
Hypergraph Factorization with Time evolving data ( HFT ) . When the relational data changes over time , we want the clustering structure to reflect these changes , but remain consistent with historic structure . We extend the problem to handle time evolving data through an incremental algorithm that updates community structure based on a prior community model .
2 . APPROACH Our approach consists of three main parts : ( 1 ) a relational hypergraph model , ( 2 ) a hypergraph factorization method , and ( 3 ) an on line method to handle time varying relational data .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We collected relational data from various social media used at IBM , as summarized in Figure 2(a ) . Note that relations can be static or dynamic , based on the update frequency of the data .
Relational hypergraph model . Three concepts are involved in our model : facet , relation , and relational hypergraph . As illustrated in Figure 1(a ) , a set of users u1 , u2 , … , work closely with each other , under different working projects , j1 , j2 ; some of them share information ( documents r1 , r2 , … , with a set of tags x1 , x2 , … ) with others via bookmarking . To generally describe such collaboration data , we defines a facet as a set of objects or entities of the same type , eg a user facet is a set of users , and define a relation as the interactions among facets , eg ( user , project ) relation . A relation can involve two or more facets , eg ―bookmark‖ ( user , document , tag ) is a 3 way relation . We denote the q th facet as v(q ) and the set of all facets as V . An M way relation e on facets v(1 ) , v(2),… , v(M ) is a subset of the Cartesian product v(1)…v(M ) . We denote a particular relation by e(r ) where r is the relation index . The observations of an M way relation e(r ) is represented as an M way data tensor . We use a relational hypergraph to describe a combination of the relations of facets . A hypergraph is a graph where edges , called hyperedges , connect to any number of vertices . Figure 1(b ) is a hypergraph corresponding to the data schema shown in Figure 1(a ) . For a set of facets V={v(q)} and a set of relations E={e(r)} , we can construct a hypergraph G=(V,E ) where the vertices correspond to facets and hyperedges correspond to relations ( ref . Figure 1(b ) , a hypergraph for the scenario ( a) ) . To reduce notation complexity , V and E also represents the set of all vertex and edge indices respectively . A hyperedge/relation e(r ) is said to be incident to a facet/vertex v(q ) if v(q)e(r ) , and can be represented by v(q)~e(r ) or e(r)~v(q ) .
( HF ) . We
Hypergraph Factorization to extract communities , ie groups of people who interact with each other in a coherent manner . The interactions are across multiple relations and multiple facets . For example , in Figure 1(c ) we can use two communities to explain the interaction observed in Figure 1(a ) , as the interaction is mostly likely to occur within communities . seek
The key problem is how to extract the consistent clusters leveraging the hypergraph . We define the problem as hypergraph factorization : Given a hypergraph G=(V,E ) and a set of data defined on G , find nonnegative core tensor [ z ] tensors for corresponding facets V={v(q)} , where and factors U(q ) is a IqK matrix , with its ( iq,k) element indicating how likely an interaction in the k th community involves the i th user , and the elements of core tensor [ z ] indicate the prior probabilities of the communities . We solve the problem in terms of optimization – to approximate all data tensors by combining a common core tensor [ z ] and a common set of nonnegative factors {U(q)} . We have provided an efficient iterative algorithm that guarantees to find a ( local ) optimal solution . In our algorithm , the information contained in each relation is propagated to other relations via the core tensor and its connected facet factors .
User interest prediction . In addition to qualitative case studies , we design a prediction task to illustrate how our community tracking algorithm can be utilized to predict users’ future interests . Specifically , given data Dt at time t , we predict users’ future use of tags , and compare the prediction with the truth data Dt+1 . We use two information retrieval metrics , P@10 ( the precision of the top 10 results ) and NDCG ( Normalized Discount Cumulative Gain ) to compare our method with a frequency based method ( denoted by ―recuring‖ ) and a collective filtering method ( pLSA [ 1] ) . The results ( ref . Figure 2(b ) ) indicate the prediction given by our approach outperforms the baseline methods by 36 250 % on the average , which suggest that our method can better capture the dynamics of users’ interests . By leveraging cooperate relations , ~20 % of the users whose future interests can be predicted .
( a ) IBM datasets
( b ) Prediction performance
Figure 2 : ( a ) Hypergraph of IBM dataset : The gray solid edges represent static relations and the red dashed edges represent time varying relation . The sizes of these relational data from R1~R5 are : 3K12K61K , 3K1K , 3K2K , 3K90 and 3K42 . ( b ) Prediction performance : Our framework improves the prediction of users’ future tag use .
4 . CONCLUSION We introduce relational hypergraphs to model the schematic structures in social data in terms of facets and relations , and then solve the community extraction problem based on nonnegative multi tensor decomposition on the hypergraph . The key contribution of our proposed method is its ability to flexibly handle both static and time evolving social contents with low time complexity . The experiment on real world enterprise data suggests that our method captures the dynamics of users’ social context well .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . HOFMANN ( 1999 ) . Probabilistic latent semantic indexing ,
[ 2 ]
SIGIR , 50 57 , J . SUN , C . FALOUTSOS , S . PAPADIMITRIOU and P . YU ( 2007 ) . GraphScope : parameter free mining of large time evolving graphs , SIGKDD , 687 696 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] S . ZHU , K . YU , Y . CHI and Y . GONG ( 2007 ) . Combining classification using matrix for content and factorization , SIGIR , 487 494 , 2007 . link
( )r(){}rrE(){}qqVUWWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091214
