Identifying Vertical Search Intention of Query through
Social Tagging Propagation
Ning Liu1 Jun Yan1 Weiguo Fan2 Qiang Yang3 Zheng Chen1
1Microsoft Research Asia
Sigma Center , 49 Zhichun Road
Beijing , PR China , 100190
{ningl , junyan , zhengc}@microsoft.com
2Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University , Blacksburg , VA ,
USA 24061 0101 wfan@vt.edu
3Hong Kong University of Science and Technology , Clearwater Bay ,
Kowloon , Hong Kong qyang@cseusthk
ABSTRACT A pressing task during the unification process is to identify a user ’s vertical search intention based on the user ’s query . In this paper , we propose a novel method to propagate social annotation , which includes user supplied tag data , to both queries and VSEs for semantically bridging them . Our proposed algorithm consists of three key steps : query annotation , vertical annotation and query intention identification . Our algorithm , referred to as TagQV , verifies that the social tagging can be propagated to represent Web objects such as queries and VSEs besides Web pages . Experiments on real Web search queries demonstrate the effectiveness of TagQV in query intention identification . Categories and Subject Descriptors H30 [ INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL ] : Search process . General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Performance . Keywords Social annotation , metadata , vertical search engine ( VSE ) . 1 . INTRODUCTION Vertical search engines ( VSEs ) refer to the search services that target at specific information , such as image , video and news search . In recent years , VSEs have become increasingly effective in serving users with specific needs . Unfortunately , many Web users are still unaware of these high quality vertical search resources . Our study in the search query log of a commercial search engine reveals that the number of generic search queries , which have explicit or implicit vertical search intentions , can surpass the traffic of VSEs . This motivates us to develop a unifying approach to bridge user queries and VSEs such that users can see the vertical search results in generic Web search . In this paper , our solution for this problem is to semantically bridge queries and VSEs by propagating the social annotation , which requires no labeled data for training . With the rapid growth of Web 2.0 , a large number of Web users have manually bookmarked their interesting pages through Web platforms such as http://delicious and http://wwwdiggcom , etc . The user tags for these bookmarks are semantic descriptions of Web pages provided by Web users . However , the abundance of user tags makes us wonder “ Besides Web pages , can user tags be leveraged to represent semantics of other Web objects such as queries and VSEs ? ” With the above motivation , we propose to propagate
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20 24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . social annotations , which include user provided tags of online page bookmarks , to both queries and VSEs , which can then be semantically bridged for query intention identification . Our novel algorithm , which is called TagQV , functions in three key steps , query annotation , vertical annotation and query intention identification . Query annotation translates queries into tags that are associated with the queries’ clicked Web pages . However , the lack of tags for many Web pages leads to the incompleteness of query annotation . We therefore propose a novel approach to automatically tag each Web page by the most frequent terms in associated queries from which users have clicked the page . The vertical annotation step aims to build VSEs’ metadata by tags , which associate with pages in their index . The lack of tag information can also make the vertical annotation incomplete . We select the most representative tags of each VSE and expand them to similar ones by calculating similarity among tags . Thus , tags for Web pages are transformed into tags for VSEs . Finally , query intention is identified through the similarity between queries and VSEs in the vector representations of tags . Our experimental results show that TagQV can effectively identify users’ intentions for real Web search queries . 2 . QUERY INTENTION IDENTIFICATION 2.1 Query Annotation Nowadays , many Web pages have been tagged by annotators . On the other hand , Web pages that are clicked by users are often good reflection of users’ query intentions . Thus bridged by the Web pages , which have both user tags and query clicks , we can semantically connect the search queries and social tags . In this work , we propose to translate queries to social annotation for explaining semantics of short queries . We collect a million pages with full set of tags from delicious In addition , we also collect 10 days’ click through log of a commercial search engine . Let q , p and t stand for a query , a page and a tag respectively . Figure 1 shows their relationships . Click through
Social Annotation q p t
Figure 1 . Relationship of query , page and tag
We consider our problem as estimating the probability of a query qi that can be tagged by tag tj in the probabilistic model . In other words , we aim to estimate the probability P(tj |qi ) for query qi , where i=1,2,…,m is used to distinguish different queries . Given Web pages , we assume queries and tags are conditionally independent . According to this assumption , we have ,
( 1 ) where pk , k=1,2,…,h are all pages on the Web . If qi never clicked pk , then the probability P(pk |qi)=0 . Thus the summation in Equation ( 1 ) only relates to the pages which have been clicked by p P p q k i
= ∑
P t q ( i
| j
)
)
P t ( j
|
)
(
| k k
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091209 qi . Through this way , the tags which have a high probability to tag a query are used as its metadata . The remaining problem is how to estimate the probability P(pk |qi ) and P(tj | pk ) respectively . Note the search click through log and social annotation make both query page pairs and page tag pairs observable . Suppose the number of times that qi clicks page pk is fk . The probability P(pk |qi ) can be directly approximated by f = ∑
( 2 )
P p q i f=
'( h j
)
|
1 k k j
On the other hand , suppose the number of times that pk is annotated by tj is gj , j=1 , 2… l , the probability P(tj|pk ) is approximated by
( 3 )
P t '( p
)
| j j k g = ∑ l i g=
1 i where tj , j=1,2,…,l stands for all terms , which can be used as tags . 2.2 Vertical Annotation Similar to the database selection problem of meta search engines , another challenge of our problem is how to represent VSEs such that they can be semantically bridged with the queries . Same as the query annotation problem , we aim to estimate the probability of a vertical search engine vi annotated by tag tj , ie P(tj |vi ) . Ideally , if we can collect all pages pk , k=1,2,…,h , which are indexed by VSEs vi , i=1,2,…,m , and collect tags of all these pages , we can approximate two probabilities : P(pk |vi ) , which is the probability of vertical vi generating page pk ; and P(tj |pk ) , which is the probability of page pk generating tag tj . Assume the verticals and tags are conditionally independent if the Web pages are given . Then we have v ) i
( 4 ) The probability P(tj |pk ) can be approximated by Equation ( 3 ) , which is the same as query annotation . Thus the remaining problem is how to estimate P(pk |vi ) . Since it is hard to collect all Web pages which are indexed by the VSEs , in this work we propose to use the pages which have been clicked in the VSEs as an approximation . Without loss of generality , let pk , k=1,2,…,h stands for all the Web pages which have been clicked in any VSE . Given a vertical vi and its vertical search click through log , suppose pk was clicked in vi for rk times , then we have , p P p v | k i
= ∑
P t (
P t (
)
(
)
|
| k k j j
P p v ( | i k
) r k
= ∑
( 5 ) h j r=
1 j
Thus Equation ( 4 ) can be computed by Equations ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) . 2.3 Query Intention Identification Bridged by social annotation , we can compute the similarity between a query and a VSE . Then the vertical search intention of queries can be identified by similarities . As an intuitive example , in our 10 days’ click through log of video search , about 10 % of the clicked pages have been tagged as “ YouTube ” by users . Thus “ Youtube ” has a high score in the video search . If the tag of a query also includes the tag “ YouTube ” with a high probability , then this query is relevant to the video search . In reality , the similarity between a query and a vertical search engine is not bridged by one unique tag . Thus given a query qj and a vertical vi , suppose the conjunction of their corresponding tags are tk , k=1,2,…,n , we define the similarity between qj and vi by the Cosine similarity in vector space of tags ,
I q v ( , i j
)
= ∑ n k
1 = p t q S t ( (
)
| k j i
) k
∑ n l 1 =
( 6 )
2
) j
2
∑ n l 1 =
S t ( ) l i p t q (
| l where we define Si(tk)=0 if tk is not in the tag list of vi . Similarly , P(tk |qj)=0 if tk is not a tag of qj . Finally , we identify the query i j
,
)
I q v η≥ (
, we identify query qj intention by thresholdη , ie , if has the intention to search in vertical vi . The relevance of the verticals to query qj is ranked by the similarity in Equation ( 6 ) . 3 . EXPERIMENTS In this section , we use real log data to help show why we need to identify vertical search intentions of generic Web search queries . We utilize a 10 days’ vertical search query log and a Web search query log of a commonly used commercial search engine . And then we randomly sample queries from the beginning to the end of this list to guarantee that we have both high and lowfrequency queries . We ask some labelers to label these 3,000 queries . Given a query , a user label its intention with 5 different scores from 0 to 4 , where 4 stands for “ strongly related to a vertical ” and 0 stands for “ not related ” .In Figure 1 , we show Precision , Recall , F measure[3 ] of TagQV where s the baselines are “ QC ” [ 1 ] , “ Meta ” [ 2 ] and the results from Google .
0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0
P re QC
Meta
Re c
Google
F1 TagQV
Figure 1 . Evaluate different approaches
These results tell us that TagQV can perform better than some classical meta search and query classification strategies in the query intention identification task . 4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this paper , we proposed to semantically bridge generic Web search queries with vertical search engines through social annotation . We showed that the social annotation of Web pages can also be used to annotate other Web objects such as queries and vertical search engines . Through propagating the social annotation , these Web objects can be effectively connected . In addition , to solve the incompleteness of social annotation , we propose to automatically tag Web page through click through information of queries . Experimental results show that our proposed TagQV algorithm can better identify users’ search intentions than some other baseline approaches . Through applying the query annotation part of TagQV algorithm , we propose a list of potential VSEs which we believe will be interested by search users , though some of them have already existed . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Meng , WY , Yu , C . and Liu , KL Building efficient and effective metasearch engines . ACM Computing Surveys ( March 2002 ) , 34(1 ) , 48 89 .
[ 2 ] Shen , D . , Pan , R . , Sun , JT , Pan , JJ , Wu , KH , Yin , J . and
Yang , Q . Query enrichment for web query classification . ACM TOIS ( July 2006 ) , 24 ( 3 ) , 320 352 .
[ 3 ] Yang , YM An Evaluation of Statistical Approaches to Text
Categorization . Journal of Information Retrieval ( 1999 ) , 1 ( 1/2 ) , 67 88 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091210
