Semantic Wiki aided Business Process Specification Amar Viswanathan
Rajesh Balakrishnan
Toufeeq Hussain
SETLabs , Infosys Technologies Ltd .
SETLabs , Infosys Technologies Ltd .
SETLabs , Infosys Technologies Ltd .
Bangalore , India +91 9886980172
Bangalore , India +91 9945225082
Bangalore , India +91 9742846589 toufeeq_hussain@infosys.com rajeshb@infosys.com amar_viswanathan@infosys.com
ABSTRACT This paper formulates a collaborative system for modeling business application . The system uses a Semantic Wiki to enable collaboration between the various stakeholders involved in the design of the system and translates the captured intelligence into business models which are used for designing a business system .
Categories and Subject Descriptors D21 [ Software Engineering ] : Requirements/Specifications – Languages D31 [ Programming Languages ] : Formal Definitions and Theory – Semantics H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services – Web based services H52 Interfaces – Natural language
Interfaces and Presentation ] : User
[ Information
General Terms Theory , Experimentation , Languages Keywords Software , Modeling , Semantic Web , BPEL , RDF
1 . INTRODUCTION The increasing complexity of today ’s business world is being reflected in today ’s business applications . Today , there is a need for a system where business and domain experts can collaborate to create these complex systems . With the prevalence of tools like blogs and wikis , we now have the ability to create a platform where multiple stakeholders can collaborate over a system ’s design . These tools however lack the capability of capturing the inherent intelligence within a system . Hence , what is required is a system which not only provides a collaborative platform but also captures the inherent intelligence . In this paper we propose a system built on semantic technologies , which is used to capture the process definitions of a system and translate them into programming constructs . 2 . Background Every business modeling process requires business analysts and domain experts collaborate in designing a system which caters to a set of specifications . These specifications are captured in a requirements document and verified by various stakeholders . Traditionally the system requirements document has been a static document capturing the requirements of a client or a customer . This document is verified based on set functional and systematical
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . parameters . The process of defining requirements and its verification operates in a feedback loop till a final design document is arrived at . By using semantic wiki and business process modeling , we intend to reduce the number of iterations in the process of creating the final design document . Our system also goes a step further by generating the actual code which will make up the business objects of the system . According to Decker [ 1 ] , wikis offer a flexible platform for asynchronous collaborative support of active stakeholder participation in requirements engineering and it also makes it easy to integrate different stakeholders’ views . The need to capture semantics is also brought out in this approach . Lohmann et al . [ 2 ] use the SoftWiki Ontology for Requirements Engineering ( SWORE ) for the semantics but the semantics are not from business perspective . There are other efforts like the Semantic Business Processes Management Working Group [ 3 ] whose major objective is the mechanization of Business Process Management using Semantic Web techniques and especially Semantic Web Services . Our approach proposes the use of Semantic Web techniques by the Business expert/analyst at the system requirements definition phase itself . We have also used Semantic MediaWiki [ 4 ] to prototype our concept . 2.1 Enterprise Web 2.0 With the widespread use of Web 2.0 tools like Blogs and Wikis , knowledge workers are well equipped to leverage these tools as part of their daily work . We have built our collaborative business modeling system not only on Web 2.0 technologies but have also incorporated semantic technologies and web services . We hope to position this system as a valuable tool for the enterprise knowledge worker . This system is primarily aimed at business domain experts and business analysts the requirements of a business application and then translating these requirements into code . 3 . Collaborative Business Modeling Collaborative Business Modeling is the process by which the various stakeholders involved in the development of a system use a single business process development platform to design the system . The modeling process can be defined as such . 3.1 Modeling Process The collaborative modeling process consists of the following steps : 1 . The business domain expert prepares for capturing
Requirements document using natural the System language wiki
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091135 constructs . The business analyst annotates the System Requirements document using semantic wiki constructs . to RDF . All
2 . Once the System Requirements document is prepared , it is exported the processes , entities and relationships are exported as RDF files . These RDF files are then converted to BPEL using a RDF to BPEL translator which we have developed .
3 . From the BPEL files , the inherent relationships and processes are linked together to define the complete system . 4 . The linked BPEL can then be verified visually through a BPMN modeler . The final step is to pass the BPEL to a BPEL engine for generating the interface definition code .
3.2 Sample Modeling Scenario An example in the form of an enterprise travel request application captured on Semantic Wiki is shown in Fig 1 and Fig 2 shows the semantic constructs of this system .
Figure 1 Semantic Wiki capturing requirements
Figure 2 Semantic Wiki constructs
The semantic markup is converted to RDF by the Semantic Wiki . The RDF generated by the Semantic Wiki is then converted to BPEL . This is done by the RDF to BPEL translator . The translator parses the RDF to create a parse tree and a lookup table . Standard schematics use a static global lookup table whereas datatypes and processes require a dynamic lookup table . RDF Datatypes are encapsulated by the RDF properties and when converted they are transformed into BPEL partnerLinks and processes . Sample BPEL obtained from Eclipse BPEL is shown in Fig 3 for the business system described earlier . The BPEL obtained from the translator is verified using a BPM modeler . The BPMN version of the system is given in Fig 4 . Once the visual verification process is complete , the BPEL is ready to be used by a BPEL Engine like Microsoft BizTalk Server .
Figure 3 BPEL obtained from RDF to BPEL translator
Figure 4 BPMN for sample scenario
4 . CONCLUSION This paper describes a system which is used for collaborative BPM of complex enterprise applications . By integrating business process tools and semantic intelligence into Web 2.0 applications we are able to capture business requirements , enhance it with intelligence and transform into it programmable business logic . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B Decker et al . Wiki Based Stakeholder Participation in
Requirements Engineering , IEEE Software , 2007 [ 2 ] S Lohmann , T Riechert and S Auer . Collaborative Development of Knowledge Bases in Distributed Requirements Elicitation , Software Engineering 2008
[ 3 ] Semantic Business Processes Management Working Group http://wwwsbpmorg/
[ 4 ] M Krötzsch , D Vrandecic , M Völkel . Semantic MediaWiki , Proc . 5th International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC06 )
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091136
