The Web of Nations
Sukwon Chung1 Dungjit Shiowattana , Pavel Dmitriev , Su Chan2 sukwonchung@stanford.edu {dungjit,dmitriev,suchan}@yahoo inc.com
1Stanford University , 450 Serra Mall , Stanford , CA , 94305 , USA .
2Yahoo! Labs , 2821 Mission College Blvd . , Santa Clara , CA 95054 , USA .
ABSTRACT
In this paper , we report on a large scale study of structural differences among the national webs . The study is based on a webscale crawl conducted in the summer 2008 . More specifically , we study two graphs derived from this crawl , the nation graph , with nodes corresponding to nations and edges – to links among nations , and the host graph , with nodes corresponding to hosts and edges – to hyperlinks among pages on the hosts . Contrary to some of the previous work [ 2 ] , our results show that webs of different nations are often very different from each other , both in terms of their internal structure , and in terms of their connectivity with other nations . Categories and Subject Descriptors H11 [ Models and Principles ] : Systems and Information Theory General Terms Experimentation , Measurement , Verification Keywords : Web structure , web graph , host graph , nation graph . 1 . INTRODUCTION
Graphical structure of the web has been a subject of widespread interest in research community . In their pioneering work , Broder et al . [ 1 ] found that the web on a page level looked like a bow tie , with 29 % of pages in a strongly connected component ( SCC ) , 24 % being on a directed path to the SCC ( IN ) , 24 % being reachable from the SCC ( OUT ) , and the rest of the pages not being in any of the above . In [ 2 ] , Donato et al . found that , while the global web did look like a bow tie , national webs ( Italy , United Kingdom , and Indochina ) looked different , with a large SCC ( >50% ) , significant OUT ( 28 46% ) , and a very small IN . While this may have seemed like a general principle , Zhu et al . [ 3 ] showed that Chinese web was again different , having a large SCC ( 51% ) , large IN ( 26% ) , and a smaller OUT ( 15% ) .
In this paper , we report on a large scale study of structural differences among the national webs . Our study is based on a host graph of the web obtained from a web scale crawl , and included hosts from over 200 nations . While , similarly to the previous works , we analyze the IN/SCC/OUT structure of selected national webs , we focus more on the analysis of the nation graph , studying the connectivity among nations . 2 . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Our dataset was derived from a web scale crawl containing tens of billions of pages , conducted for the purpose of this experiment in the summer 2008 . Based on this crawl we built a weighted directed host graph containing hosts as nodes and links between hosts as edges . A link from host a to host b has weight w iff there are w links from pages in a to pages in b . The graph contained over 20M nodes with over 2B edges . Then , a nation label was assigned to each host , determined either based on the top level
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . domain ( eg , .in , .vn ) , or , for hosts under non national domains ( eg , .com , .net ) , based on a classification algorithm using language and link features of pages on the host . The details of the algorithm are beyond the scope of this paper1 . Over 200 distinct nation labels were used . The nation labels allowed us isolate a subgraph of the host graph corresponding to a particular nation , and build a nation graph by collapsing each national subgraph into a single node , and adding up the edge weights . Below we present our analysis of the properties of the nation graph and the host subgraphs corresponding to selected nations . Due to space limitation , we only present a subset of our results . 3 . ANALYSIS OF THE NATION GRAPH
The first property we look at is which nations tend to be linked to more than they link to other nations . Figure 1 ( left ) shows the ratio of inlinks to outlinks for 21 nations ( nation codes are based on ISO 3166 1 standard ) . As one can see , India and Vietnam are two outliers with much more inlinks than outlinks , while other nations have similar ratios in the range of ( 0.5 , 15 )
Figure 1 ( center ) shows , for each nation , the average numbers for inlinks and outlinks from/to other nations per host . This graph confirms the observations made above , showing that India and Vietnam have more inlinks per host than outlinks , while Malaysia has the opposite . One can also notice that China , Korea , and Japan have the lowest number of both inlinks and outlinks to other nations per host , suggesting that most of the hosts in their webs are internally oriented . On the other end of the spectrum , Vietnam , India , and the United Kingdom are the most “ social ” nations , with the highest numbers of inlinks and outlinks per host .
Another interesting property is , for a particular nation , how many other nations it links to , and how many other nations link to this nation ( Figure 1 ( right) ) . Not surprisingly , the USA links to and is linked by the largest number of nations . Interestingly , Vietnam , which has the largest ratio of inlinks to outlinks , is linked by the smallest number of nations . In general , there seems to be no correlation between a nation having many inlinks from other nations , and a nations being linked to by many nations .
Figure 2 shows the proportion of inlinks and outlinks from/to other nations for the USA and Malaysia . We observed that the USA is the nation linked to and from most often , while other popular nations differ depending on the geographical location of the nation under consideration .
We also perform an analysis of the connectivity of the nation graph in terms of the sizes of the SCC , IN , and OUT components . We found that that the nation graph is well connected , with the largest SCC containing 98 % nations . As we increase the threshold for edge weight required for the edge to be present in the graph , the largest SCC remains large , and IN and OUT components remain small . Figure 3 shows the central component of the graph for the threshold value of 250M . As one can see , the web seems to be centered around the USA , with the exception of United Kingdom to Germany , and Russia to Ukraine connections .
1 While we believe that the algorithm is quite accurate , the results described here could be affected by the mistakes made by the algorithm .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091159 Figure 1 . Inlinks/outlinks for a nation ( left ) ; inlinks/outlinks per host ( center ) ; linking and linked to nations ( right )
Figure 2 . Proportions of inlinks and outlinks to/from other nations for Malaysia ( left ) and Korea ( right ) .
Figure 3 . Nation graph SCC for 250M threshold .
Figure 4 . Percentage of hosts with external links ( left ) ; size of the largest SCC
( right ) .
4 . ANALYSIS OF THE HOST GRAPHS Figure 4 ( left ) represents the percentage of hosts in a nation with at least threshold number of links to or from other hosts . As the graph shows , hosts within a nation are connected rather loosely , with less than 50 % of the hosts having more than 1 link to/from other hosts . Taiwan has the most fragile connection structure , with almost 90 % of hosts having at least 1 connection , but less than 30 % having at least 2 links . Figure 4 ( right ) shows how the size of the largest SCC in the national web changes with the threshold . As one can see , the largest SCC contains no more than 20 % hosts , and this number is dropping sharply as the threshold value increases . Japan has the strongest SCC , and Taiwan and India have the weakest SCCs . 5 . CONCLUSION In this paper , we presented a large scale study of the structural differences among the nationals web . Our results show that webs of different nations are often very different from each other , both in terms of their internal structure , and in terms of their connectivity with other nations . We also show that , in general , host graphs of national webs are less densely connected than previous work might have suggested . We attribute this difference to bigger size and better comprehensiveness of our dataset , allowing us to discover more isolated and loosely connected hosts . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Broder , A . , Kumar , R . , Maghoul , F . , Raghavan , P . , Rajagopalan , S . , Stata , R . , Tomkins , A . , Wiener , J . Graph Structure in the Web . Computer Networks , 33(1 6 ) , pp.309 320 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] Donato , D . , Leonardi , S . , Millozzi , S . , Tsaparas , P . Mining the
Inner Structure of the Web Graph . 8th International Workshop on the Web and Databases ( WebDB ) , June 16 17 2005 , Baltimore , MD , USA .
[ 3 ] Zhu , JH , Meng , T . , Xie , Z . , Li , G . , Li , X . A Teapot Graph and its
Hierarchical Structure of the Chinese Web . 17th International World Wide Web Conference , April 21 25 2008 , Beijing , China .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091160
