A P2P Based Distributed Services Network for Next
Generation Mobile Internet Communications
Yang Li , Yi Chuan Wu , Jian Ying Zhang , Jin Peng , Hong Luan Liao , Yun Fei Zhang
China Mobile Research Institute , Beijing China 100053 liyangyj@chinamobile.com
ABSTRACT In this poster , we present a novel P2P ( Peer to Peer ) based distributed services network ( DSN ) , which is a next generation operable and manageable distributed core network architecture and functional structure , proposed by China Mobile for telecommunication Internet . Our preliminary implementations of P2P VoIP ( Voice over Internet Protocol ) system over DSN platform demonstrate its effectiveness and promising future . and wireless services
Categories and Subject Descriptors C21 [ Network Architecture and Design ] : Distributed networks , Wireless communication
General Terms Management , Design , Economics , Standardization
Keywords Mobile communication , Distributed computing , P2P , DSN structure proposed by China Mobile
1 . INTRODUCTION Nowadays , both the telecommunications network and Internet are facing some severe challenges respectively , and at the same time , they also have some advantages to draw on for each other . Therefore , to realize the convergence of the telecommunications network and Internet , it is necessary to design a new core network structure that can combine the advantages of them . Distributed Services Network ( DSN ) is a next generation operable and manageable distributed core network architecture and functional for telecommunication services and wireless Internet . To address the challenges that the current telecommunication networks and Internet are facing , in terms of service and operation we combine the advantages of the high speed , flexibility , lower cost and scalability of Internet and the operability and manageability of telecommunication network , which will be driven by emerging technologies ( eg P2P and other distributed technolo gies ) . DSN enables various functions that are originally provided by traditional telecommunication core network in P2P way . In addition , it is also required to provide continuous service delivery capability , self adaptive load balancing capability , bandwidth convergence capability , distributed storage capability , dynamic resource scheduling to provide better support for wireless Internet and implement telecommunication services at lower cost .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
2 . DSN ARCHITECTURE 2.1 Design Philosophy DSN is a wireless Internet oriented platform with carrier level service capabilities , which is located in the core network between the service network and the bearer network . Based on distributed technologies , especially P2P , the DSN provides core network capabilities for wireless Internet services and necessary support for the operation of services [ 3 ] .
Figure 1 . DSN architecture the operability and manageability of
The main points about the philosophy of the DSN design are as follows : deeply exploring the requirements of applications for network capabilities according to Internet services ; introducing new services and realizing the desired network capabilities in combination with existing technologies ; maintaining telecommunications network ; being oriented to mobile telecommunications customers , take the advantage of the service characteristic of wireless Internet services . Much of the core functionality of the DSN can be realized through the application of software . With the componentization of software and the underlying layer screened by middleware , the DSN software can be deployed on hardware platforms with different functions and in different locations to realize distributed deployment . the network and highlight the
2.2 DSN Architecture As shown in Figure 1 , DSN function is enabled by deploying Super Node in the core network , mainly providing the service
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091177 control capability . Furthermore , DSN function is gradually extended to access node , user node and external node to maximize the computing capability , storage capacity and bandwidth of access nodes and termination nodes . These nodes can provide network capability and service capability . technology
2.3 Application Scenarios DSN enables the core architecture of wireless Internet with the combination of P2P and other distributed technologies . With DSN , carriers are able to build scalable telecommunication network platform that deliver multimedia applications and content applications . In DSN application system , the following services are enabled : ( 1 ) MMTel Scenario : With DSN , carriers can build a largescale cost effective operable distributed MMTel service system .
( 2 ) Content storage and delivery : DSN enables very large data storage with the help of DSN , and in turn content delivery . In P2P enabled system , network resources are distributed across peer nodes in the system .
( 3 ) Streaming : In P2P based streaming system , each node provides uplink bandwidth while obtaining data from other nodes , and uploads data to other nodes . Data is transmitted in segmented manner . In P2P based streaming architecture , system capability is improved along with the addition of nodes , this also solves the scalability problem . For system provider , the load of server will be reduced with the increase of users . For users , then are faster to access the resources and the media is played more fluently .
( 4 ) Large scale High Bandwidth Multi media Service Scenarios : Bandwidth exhausting multimedia service in the future may become the killer application of carriers . However , it has higher requirements on the network bandwidth and processing capability . These applications have very high requirements on the carrier network : Presence system requires 3 10M network bandwidth , less than 100ms delay , and 10ms jitter , and also have high requirement on route setup process and QoS . DSN intelligent routing mechanism provides routing function for the system , and provides QoS guarantee for large capacity multimedia service on the basis of P2P bandnwidth aggregation capability .
( 5 ) Other Service Scenarios : Since the functionality of the DSN can be realized in the form of various software components , it can flexibly support all kinds of wireless Internet service scenarios in the future , such as IM , web2.0 , and online games , etc .
2.4 Main Characteristics ( 1 ) Distributed : DSN uses P2P technology and distributed computing technology to distribute the system load across the service nodes in the system in balanced manner , which not only ensures the service availability and stability , but also reduce the cost .
( 2 ) Homogenous : Using the distributed technology like P2P , DSN provides homogenous treatment to the system service nodes , which improves the scalability and reliability of DSN and effectively reduces the expansion cost of DSN .
( 3 ) Robustness : Distributed network architecture in nature features high error tolerance . Since service is distributed across nodes , when part of nodes or network are damaged , it will have minimal impact on other parts of the network .
( 4 ) Self organized : With distributed technology , DSN provides self organization feature . In distributed architecture , DSN nodes collaborate with each other with specific algorithm .
( 5 ) Distributed Network Control Capability : In DSN , QoS on layer , P2P mobility management , P2P application interconnection , network traffic control and exception discovery can be enabled by building a P2P based network control management layer to improve the control and management capability of Internet .
3 . PRELIMINARY IMPLEMENTATIONS Up to now , we have deployed hundreds of super nodes in our China Mobile IP Private Network and implemented an effective P2P based VoIP applications using well known P2P SIP protocols , which provided the mobile users with high quality and cheap voice services . In this application , we provided an effective strategy to find relay nodes for VoIP communication nodes with low delay , thus optimize the connecting link . The P2P VoIP architecture is depicted in Figure 2 [ 1 , 2 , 4 ] .
Figure 2 . Architecture of P2P VoIP application
4 . CONCLUSIONS DSN is an open and promising mobile Internet network architecture towards next generation mobile network , which effectively adopts P2P based distributed computing technology for cost effective and high quality services . Based on the current preliminary results both in research and practice , we would like to further study on how to realize P2P streaming services such as IPTV in our DSN platform .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Rosenberg et al . , “ SIP : session initiation protocol ” , RFC
3261 , 2002 .
[ 2 ] D . Bryan , P . Matthews , E . Shim , D . Willis , and S . Dawkins , “ Concepts and Terminology for Peer to Peer SIP ” , draft ietfp2psip concepts 02 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] White Paper of DSN ( Distributed Services Network ) , China
Mobile Research Institute , 2008 .
[ 4 ] T . Hardie , “ Mechanisms for use in pointing to overlay networks , nodes , or resources ” , draft hardie p2poverlaypointers 00 , 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091178
