∗ Lei Wu
MOE MS KeyLab of MCC University of Science and
Technology of China leiwu@live.com
Learning to Tag
Linjun Yang
Microsoft Research Asia 49 Zhichun Road,Beijing linjuny@microsoft.com
100190 , China
Xian Sheng Hua
Microsoft Research Asia 49 Zhichun Road,Beijing xshua@microsoft.com
100190 , China
Nenghai Yu
MOE MS KeyLab of MCC University of Science and
Technology of China ynh@ustceducn
ABSTRACT Social tagging provides valuable and crucial information for large scale web image retrieval . It is ontology free and easy to obtain ; however , irrelevant tags frequently appear , and users typically will not tag all semantic objects in the image , which is also called semantic loss . To avoid noises and compensate for the semantic loss , tag recommendation is proposed in literature . However , current recommendation simply ranks the related tags based on the single modality of tag co occurrence on the whole dataset , which ignores other modalities , such as visual correlation . This paper proposes a multi modality recommendation based on both tag and visual correlation , and formulates the tag recommendation as a learning problem . Each modality is used to generate a ranking feature , and Rankboost algorithm is applied to learn an optimal combination of these ranking features from different modalities . Experiments on Flickr data demonstrate the effectiveness of this learning based multi modality recommendation strategy .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing indexing methods ; H28 [ Database Applications ] : Image databases
General Terms Algorithms , Theory , Experimentation
Keywords Tag recommendation ; Learning to tag ; multi modality Rankboost ; social tagging
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the advance of Web2.0 technology , multimedia content creation and distribution are much easier than ever
∗This work was performed when Lei Wu was visiting Mi crosoft Research Asia as a research intern .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . before [ 6 ] . Along with the proliferation of images on the World Wide Web , effective image search approaches to obtain targeted images have gradually become an urgent demand . Currently , the performance of Web image search mainly depends on the quality of the image annotations or keywords ( tags ) . Some methods automatically generate metadata by analyzing the image content , or the surrounding text on the webpages ; while others generate these textual metadata by manual tagging . Most recently , social tagging has become a popular means to annotate Web images .
Although the automatic creation of metadata costs little human effort , the result of these statistical model based automatic methods are generally unsatisfying [ 14][1 ] . Especially on web images , which are quite noisy . To improve the performance of the automatic annotation , some approaches combine both image content analysis and the surrounding text on the image ’s webpages , eg , [ 11][20][16][19 ] . These methods obtain some improvements over the purely content based methods , but they are still unacceptable for practical use .
The manual metadata generation is relatively more accurate and practical than the automatic annotation . The manual metadata generation is mainly based on the idea of ontology based labeling , which firstly defines an ontology and then let users label the web resources using the semantic markups in the ontology . There are also some work to mitigate the manually labeling work by semi automatic annotation [ 5 ] . Although these ontology based annotation work is successful in some applications , eg bioinformatics and knowledge management , there are several limitations . Firstly , to build a semantic ontology that covers sufficient descriptions for multimedia content itself is expensive , time consuming and often requires domain knowledge [ 15 ] . Secondly , ontology based annotation usually requires users familiar with the ontology , which is too complicated for anyone without specialized training and knowledge .
Recently , a promising approach for manual metadata generation is social tagging , which requires all the users in the social network label the web resources with their own keywords and share with others . This labeling operation is named “ tagging ” . Different from ontology based annotation ; there is no pre defined ontology or taxonomy in social tagging . Thus this task is more convenient for ordinary users . Social tagging has currently attracted huge amount of web
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering361 of the alternative tags and it can also help clarify the true semantic of the images . For example , when the user tags an image with word “ sea ” , the recommendation system will list more rich and precise tags based on the input tags , such as “ ocean ” , “ water ” , “ wave ” , etc . These recommendations will help users clarify the image content as well as reminding them of related semantics which may otherwise be ignored . The quality of tag recommendation is quite important to social tagging and the consequent performance of image search . Firstly , high quality tag recommendation will motivate users to contribute more useful tags to an image [ 13 ] . The average number of tags for each image on Flickr is relatively small [ 2 ] . One of the reasons for that the users did not make large amount of tags is that they generally cannot think of too many words [ 17 ] in a short moment and few people would like to spend much time thinking about the alternative tags or more precise tags . With the help of high quality tag recommendation , users can provide a lot of useful tags in a short time . Also the spelling errors can be effectively avoided . Thus the average number of correct tags for each image is expected to increase . Secondly , tag recommendation will remind the users of more rich and specific tags . The distribution of tags on Flickr follows a power law distribution ( 1 ) . Most of the users only use the popular keywords , which are only 5.82 % of the whole tag collection . These tags are popular because they are common vocabulary and easily come to mind . Another 33.21 % of the tags which appear 50 5,000 times are also informative while generally ignored by most users , because these words are more professional terms or only used for specific object or situations . The tag recommendation will help remind the user to use both popular and specific tags for social tagging . This reminder also helps create more precise tags . Thirdly , tag recommendation can depress the noise in social tagging system . It shows in the tag distribution that there are around 60 % of tags in the tag corpus are misspelling or meaningless words . With the help of tag recommendation , users can tag an image by choosing rather than typing , which effectively avoids these spelling errors .
Existing tag recommendation approaches are performed by ranking the related tags based on the tag co occurrence information . Much information is ignored in these methods , such as the visual correlation between tags , and the image content . A better choice is to use correlation from multi modalities , such as tag co occurrence , correlation between tag related images , the content of the target image , etc . However , it is not easy to combine these multi modality correlations , since these modalities should be weighted differently for different samples . The basic idea of this paper is to learn an optimal combination of the multi modality correlations to generate a ranking function for tag recommendation . Given the image and one or more initial tags , the algorithm will rank and sort the rest of the tags based on the tag correlation from each modality . Each is taken as a weak ranker . Then Rankboost[7 ] is adopted to combine weak rankers and form a better ranking function . Users can click the tags on the ranking list to annotate the image . After each click , the algorithm will update the ranking function as well as the tag recommendation function . Since the recommendation is based on the multi modality correlations and is dependent on the ever increasing tags in the database , it seems the users are using an selected ontology for tagging . The proposed method actually regularizes the
Figure 1 : Tag distribution over a collection of 640 million images from Flickrcom There are totally 1,300 million tags . Around 1 % of the tags appearing more than 20,000 times , which contain little information . Around 5.82 % of the tags have appeared more than 5,000 in the collection , which are considered as popular tags . 33.21 % of the tags appears more than 50 and less than 5,000 times , which are defined as specific tags . 60 % of the tags have appeared less than 50 times users and effectively helps the organization of web resources . This strategy is adopted by some famous websites ( eg Delicious , Flickr ) . This organic system of organization is also called “ folksonomy ” .
Although social tagging is easy to perform , there are also some drawbacks . Firstly , it suffers polysemy and synonyms problem . As the users can use their own words to tag the images , different users may tag similar images with different words . So when querying “ sea ” , one may not find images tagged “ ocean ” which represents the same concept . On the other hand , it is difficult for the users to input all the tags of the equivalent meaning . For this reason , lots of images may not be effectively retrieved . Secondly , ambiguity is also a problem . Users may use a general tag to represent different things . For example , when an image is tagged “ apple ” , maybe it refers to the fruit “ apple ” , or it could refer to the corporation or the product . In general , it is also quite difficult for the web users to realize the existence of ambiguity when tagging if they did not think of or even know the other meanings of the query . With these ambiguous tags , lots of irrelevant images may be retrieved .
To tackle the above problems , some researchers proposed the query expansion and suggestion [ 9][23 ] , which extend the query to some related words to make the intention more clear . However , it does not completely eliminate the synonymy and tag ambiguity problems . The information in the query is limited , and the query expansion frequently cannot compensate the semantic loss in the tagging process , when users may ignore some semantic objects in the images . Recently , Xirong et al . [ 10 ] proposed the neighbor voting algorithm for image retrieval , which tried to predict the relevance of the user contributed tags . However the similarity between individual images is itself an open and complex problem . In this paper , we propose to tackle the semantic loss problem during the tagging process by combining both visual correlation in concept level and tag cooccurrence information . The semantically or visually related tags are recommended to the users to improve the tagging quality . The recommendation system will remind the users
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering362 likely to tag the images with semantically related words , like “ ipod ” together with “ apple ” . Based on this assumption , this semantic relationship can be somewhat captured by the tag co occurrence in a large online photo sharing website with great number of independent users . However , it does not capture all relations between tags , such as the “ tyre ” in a photo of car , or the “ eye ” in a photo of “ face ” . The photos containing both “ tyre ” and “ car ” may be tagged “ car ” only , and it is the same with “ eye ” and “ face ” . To tackle these problems , visual correlation of the tags are applied . We build a visual language model ( VLM ) [ 22 ] for each tag and then use the inverse of the distance between these visual language models to measure the tag visual similarity . These two kinds of correlations only use the relation between tags , and the content of the target image is ignored . Further more , the image conditioned tag correlation is proposed to capture the tag similarity with respect to the target image .
We also formulate the recommendation as a learning to rank problem and combine these three kinds of correlation to generate the ranking . Since different types of correlation are independent measurements , it does not make sense to linearly combine them . In this paper , we consider these different correlations as different ranking features and combine them in the Rankboost framework , which uses the order of instances rather than the absolute distance . The flowchart of the system is shown in Fig 2 .
4 . TAG CO OCCURRENCE ( TC )
Concept co occurrence in daily life contains useful information to measure their similarity in the semantic domain . The semantic about the concepts is related to human cognition . Since 80 % of the human cognition is formed from the visual information in daily life , the occurrence of concepts in daily life contributes a lot to their semantics . For example , the “ monkey ” is semantically related to “ trees ” because we often see monkeys living on the trees . This visual cooccurrence information contribute in forming the “ monkey tree ” semantic relationship . It is also the same with lots of other kinds of semantic relationships , such as “ flower fruit ” , “ fish sea ” , “ football soccer ” , “ bird sky ” etc .
Tag co occurrence ( TC ) on Flickr can partially capture the conceptual relationship in daily life . We assume that if two tags are frequently assigned to the same image , the corresponding concepts also have a high probability to co occur in daily life . This statement makes sense for the following points . First , the Flickr dataset contains a huge amount of daily life photos generated by individual users . It seems that there are hundreds of millions of cameras capturing the object co occurrence in daily life . Secondly , users are supposed to label the images according to their content with good reasons . There are studies [ 2 ] , which show that the motivation of the users to tag the images is for social incentives . In other words , the users would like to make themselves known by contributing to the tagging task . Based on this conclusion , the users would more likely to tag the images truly according to the content rather than making noises .
The calculation of the tag co occurrence on Flickr has already been investigated by the recent work [ 18 ] . Here we adopt the similar method to calculate the tag co occurrence over a large dataset of 6 million images from Flickr . This dataset is sufficiently large for generating the statistics about the tag co occurrence . Generally , according to different applications , the tag relevance is normalized into asymmetric
Figure 2 : The flowchart of the social tagging recommendation system . folksonomy with this dynamic ontology and makes the tagging converge to the underlying taxonomy .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . Section 2 briefly introduces the related work on tag recommendation . Section 3 gives an overview of the annotation recommendation framework . Section 4 discusses the tag co occurrence measurement . Section 5 discusses the tag content correlation measurement . 6 elaborates on the image content conditioned tag correlation . The hybrid information based RankBoost algorithm is discussed in Section 7 . The experimental results and discussion are given in Section 8 . Section 9 concludes this paper .
2 . RELATED WORK
Recently , the tag recommendation based on the collective knowledge [ 18 ] is proposed . The authors measured the similarity between tags by their co occurrence information in the data collection , and used the top similar tags as recommendations . This work has achieved some exciting results on the Flickr data , however , this kind of similarity measurement is greatly influenced by the synonyms and polysemy tags . For example , the similarity between “ player ” and “ football ” may be underestimated , since the co occurrence of “ player ” and “ soccer ” should also have been taken into account to calculate the similarity between “ player ” and “ football ” . In the other case , the similarity between “ apple ” and “ ipod ” is overestimated , since the “ apple ” here only indicates the corporation , and the cases where it represents the fruit should not be taken into account . While these problems can be better handled if the multi modality visual similarity between the tags is used .
3 . OVERVIEW OF THE TAG RECOMMEN
DATION FRAMEWORK
Given an image and one or several initial tags , we would like to recommend more tags which may have a semantical or visual correlation to the image . We rank these tags by their correlation to the target image , and list the top N keywords as the recommendation for further tagging .
We use a combination of three kinds of correlations to rank the tags : tag co occurrence , tag visual correlation , and image conditioned tag correlation . The web users are very
Tag SelectionTag Invert TableVisual Language Model Visual CorrelationTag + contentRankBoost recommen dationTagImageSocialTaggingTagCo occurrenceWWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering363 and symmetric forms , which are briefly represented as follows .
Asymmetric relevance measure . The relevance measure ment between two tags is defined as follows .
Ra tag(ti , tj ) =
( 1 ) |ti| repwhere ti and tj are any two tags in the database . resents the number of times of the tag ti that appears in the database.This relevance measure is asymmetric , which makes sense . Given tag ti the probability of tag tj may not be the same from that given tag tj the probability of tag ti . Symmetric relevance measure . Although the Asymmetric relevance measure makes sense for tag recommendation , in some cases , the symmetric relevance measurement is more convenient to use .
( cid:84 ) tj|
|ti|
|ti
( cid:84 ) tj| tj|
|ti |ti
Rs tag(ti , tj ) =
( 2 )
5 . TAG CONTENT CORRELATION ( TCC ) Tag co occurrence ignores some kinds of correlation . For if a user has tagged the image with “ football ” , example , he/she may not tag it with “ soccer ” . In other words , the correlation between synonym tags is not well estimated by tag co occurrence . For another case , like the previously mentioned “ tyre car ” and “ eye face ” cases , users usually ignore some appearing concepts unconsciously . This drawback can be compensated by calculating the tag content correlation ( TCC ) .
To represent the content correlation of the tags , visual language model is adopted to model each tag . For the ith tag ti , we collected a set of images marked with the tag . Then we build VLM based on these images to represent the content of the tag , and the differences of these quantified models are used to measure the tag visual correlation . 5.1 Data Source
In multimedia domain , the content of the images generally contain the semantic information of the tag . We intend to use the images as the tag content . Since a single image contains insufficient information to describe the tag , we collected a set of images to represent a tag . We aim to generate a semantic representation for the tags using these sets of images . In order to sample sufficient images to describe the tag , we generated a large image pool consisting of 1,000,000 images related to more than 50,000 popular tags by random walk sampling [ 4 ] from the popular photo sharing website Flickr . 5.2 Visual Representation
Visual language model ( VLM ) [ 22 ] is adopted to model the content of the tags in visual domain . This type of model can be generated very fast , which is appropriate for large scale datasets . It captures both the frequency of the visual features related to the tag , but also considers the spatial relationship between the neighboring features . This additional spatial information used in this model makes it more discriminative to characterize different tags .
The generation of the VLM is briefly described as follows . Each image is firstly divided into uniformly distributed equal sized patches . Then some type of local appearance features , such as the texture histogram , color moment , etc , are generated for each patch . To depress the noise as well as the consequent training process , these local appearance features are sometimes coded into a visual word by k means clustering or hash coding method . Afterwards , the VLM assumes that there are some visual grammar constraints on the arrangement of these visual words . According to different constraints , the VLM can be divided into unigram , bigram and trigram models . The unigram model assumes that the visual words are independent to each other , the output of the unigram model is the conditional distribution of the visual words given the tag . The bigram model assumes that the visual words are related to one of its neighboring words ( usually left neighbor ) , and the output of the bigram model is the conditional distribution of the visual words given both the tag and one of their neighboring words . Accordingly , the trigram model assumes that the visual words are correlated to two of its neighboring words . So the output of the trigram model is the conditional distribution given the tag and two of the neighboring words . The dependency assumption can be described in the following equations .
P ( x ) = Πn−1 P ( x ) =P ( w00)Πn−1
P ( x ) = ΠijP ( wij ) i=1 P ( wi0)Πn−1 j=1 P ( w0j|w0,j−1)Πn−1 j=1 P ( wij|wi,j−1 ) i=1 P ( wi0|wi−1,0 ) i,j=1P ( wij|wi−1,jwi,j−1 ) Πn−1
( 3 )
( 4 )
( 5 ) where x is an image , and wi,j is the visual word of the i , jth patch in the image .
The commonly used back off and smoothing methods in the statistical language model are also adopted to estimate the conditional distribution of P ( wij ) , P ( wij|wi,j−1 ) , and P ( wi0|wi−1,0 ) . More details about this modeling method are discussed in previous work [ 22 ] . For the unigram model , the VLM is the visual word distribution over each tag . P ( wi ) , wi ∈ V , i = 1,··· ,|V | where V is the vocabulary of size |V | . For bigram and trigram models , the VLM are the conditional distribution of visual words , P ( wi|wj),wi , wj ∈ V , i , j = 1,··· ,|V | and P ( wi|wj , wk ) , wi , wj , wk ∈ V , i , j , k = 1,··· ,|V | . In summary , in all types of VLM , the content representation of a tag is a conditional distribution . 5.3 Similarity Measurement
Similarity measurement is critical in many applications [ 24 ] . It is also true in the tag recommendation system , where the core is the measurement of the visual relationship between tags . This similarity measurement directly influences the recommendation results . The direct measurement of the tag relationship is hard to achieve . As a result , we intend to represent the tags with the related images by context modeling and dictionary learning , which are successful in object category recognition [ 3][25][12 ] . The tag similarity is measured by the differences between the VLM of these tags , which is easily calculated using a generalized Flickr Distance [ 21 ] . If two tags are semantically correlated , their images are more probably to share some objects or scenes . Since the VLM captures the visual statistics of the tags and each VLM is a type of conditional distribution , we can calculate the square root of JS divergence between these distributions to measure the visual distance among the tags . Although there are some other kinds of distance measurements [ 8 ] , the measurement is simple and effective .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering364 The content correlation is divided into symmetric and asymmetric measurements . The symmetric measurement considers the two tags are equally important in the measurement . However , sometimes the two tags are not equally considered , ie given the tag “ apple tree ” the concept “ apple ” is more probably to appear than given the tag “ apple ” there exists an “ apple tree ” , since “ apple ” have many other meanings and may exist in many occasions . Thus the asymmetric relevance measurement makes sense . Generally , these two kinds of measurements makes tiny different . Since the symmetric relevance can reduce half of the computational burden , it is widely used in common cases .
Asymmetric relevance measure .
T CC ( ti , tj ) = KL(L(ti)||L(tj ) ) Da
( 6 )
1
Ra
T CC ( ti , tj ) =
( 7 ) where L(ti ) represents the VLM for tag ti and KL(· ) is the KL distance between two visual language models . Da T CC is defined as the asymmetric tag correlation measurement .
T CC ( ti , tj )
Da
Symmetric relevance measure .
Ds
T CC ( ti , tj ) =
1 2
[ KL(L(ti)||M ) + KL(L(tj)||M ) ]
M =
1 2
[ L(ti ) + L(tj ) ]
Rs
T CC ( ti , tj ) =
1
Ds
T CC ( ti , tj )
( 8 )
( 9 )
( 10 ) where M is the average language model between the two tags . Ds T CC is the symmetric content distance between the two tags . In fact considering the VLM as a probabilistic distribution , this distance equals to the well known JensenShannon divergence , the square of which is demonstrated to be a strict metric . The symmetric relevance measure between the content of the tags Ra T CC ( ti , tj ) is defined as the reciprocal of their symmetric visual distance .
6 .
IMAGE CONDITIONED TAG CORRELATION MEASUREMENT ( ITC )
Although the tag visual similarity adopted the visual information of the images related to the respective tag to calculate the relevance , it does not use the information about the test image . We believe that for different test images , the similarity measurement should be different . For example , the tag “ apple ” and “ pear ” is of high relevance , however , given the test image of an ipod , the “ pear ” should not be a proper recommendation . In order to explore this kind of conditional correlation , the image conditioned tag correlation ( ITC ) measurement is proposed .
We assume that if the two tags are similar to each other , the likelihood of generating the target image should be similar . We represent the tag by the likelihood of generating the target image given unigram , bigram and trigram models respectively . These three likelihoods can be taken as location of the tag in the likelihood space . Let x be a novel test image ( for user to tag ) , and xk , k = 1,··· , L be L related images to a tag t ∈ T , where T is the tag corpus . First , we measure the similarity between the target image x and all the tag associated images . To achieve this task , the target image x is also represented in
Figure 3 : The target image conditioned tag distance measurement . Given different target image x1,x2 , the distance between tags ti,tj is different .
Figure 4 : The geometric interpretation of the asymmetric relevance measurement . the matrix of visual words x = [ wij]i,j=1,··· ,n representation as discussed in Section 5 . Then the similarity is defined by the likelihood L .
Lm t ( x ) ∝ P ( x|V LM m t )
( 11 )
Also we apply the visual context constraints , the similarity measurement can be further represented in the unigram , bigram and trigram forms .
Lm t ( x ) ∝ ΠijP ( wij|V LM m t )
Lm t ( x ) ∝ Πn−1 i=1 P ( wi0|V LM m t )Πn−1 j=1 P ( wij|wi,j−1 , V LM m t )
( 12 )
( 13 )
Lm t ( x ) ∝ P ( w00|V LM m i=1 P ( wi0|wi−1,0 , V LM m Πn−1 t )Πn−1 j=1 P ( w0j|w0,j−1 , V LM m t ) t )Πn−1 i,j=1P ( wij|wi−1,jwi,j−1 , V LM m t ) ( 14 ) where V LM m t is the m gram visual language model for the tth tag . It is worth noting that the m gram used here could be the unigram model , the bigram model , or the trigram model . For simplicity , we denote these three kinds of likelihood functions with the brief index m = 1 , 2 , 3 respectively , where m = 1 corresponds to the unigram model ; m = 2 is the bigram model ; m = 3 denotes the trigram model .
Given the image x , each tag t is represented by three likelihood values corresponding to the unigram , bigram and trigram models respectively , as shown in Fig 3 . Thus the distance between the two tags ti and tj can be defined in this likelihood space as the inter product of the two likelihood vectors . This kind of distance also consists of symmetric and asymmetric forms , which are formulated in Eq ( 15 )
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering365 and ( 16 ) respectively .
Ds
IT C ( ti , tj , x ) =
Lti ( x ) · Ltj ( x ) Lti ( x)Ltj ( x ) ti ,L2 ti ,L3 ti ] and the asymmetric distance is defined as
Lti ( x ) = [ L1
IT C ( ti , tj , x ) = Lti ( x ) · Ltj ( x ) Lti ( x )
Da
− Lti ( x )
( 15 )
( 16 )
( 17 ) where ti is usually the initial tag related to the target image and tj is the novel tag .
Correspondingly , the similarity measurement between tags given the target image is the inverse of the distance metric .
Rs
IT C ( ti , tj , x ) =
1
Ds
IT C ( ti , tj , x )
Ra
IT C ( ti , tj ) =
1
Ds
IT C ( ti , tj , x )
( 18 )
( 19 )
This asymmetric distance measurement ( Eq ( 17 ) ) is revisited here . In another aspect , this relevance measurement can also be interpreted from the relevance decomposition view , which is illustrated as Fig 4 . In the likelihood space , the novel tag tj is represented as a 3 dimensional vector , which is further decomposed into two components , the relevant component tjh that is parallel to the initial tag ti , and irrelevant component tjv which is vertical to the initial tag ti . The correlation is inverse to the distance between relevant component tjh and the initial tag ti .
In the target image conditioned tag similarity measurement , the relevance between both the initial tag and the target image is considered , which makes sense for image tagging recommendation .
7 . MULTI DOMAIN RELEVANCE FOR TAG
RECOMMENDATION
In this section , we discuss to combine multi domain relevance for tag recommendation ( MRR ) . Here the multidomain relevance refers to the tag co occurrence , tag content correlation , and image conditioned tag correlation . The basic idea is to produce an accurate ranking function by combining many “ weak ” learners . Different from traditional training procedure , these “ weak ” learners are trained based on cross domain relevance of the semantic targets . 7.1 Recommendation framework
Given an image and one or more tags , the task is to recommend more related tags to label the image . This recommendation is performed by ranking based on the three types of similarity , tag co occurrence , tag to tag similarity , and image conditioned tag similarity . The tag co occurrence ( TC ) measures how likely two different tags are labeled together . The tags are generated by web users , and their co occurrence can reflect the tag relationship in human cognition . The tag to tag similarity ( TTS ) measures the correlation of the visual content of the tags . In this sense , we can also measure the similarity of the tags by their VLMs . The image based tag similarity ( ITS ) measures the similarity between the tags conditioned on the target image .
These different types of correlation can be combined together to generate a more robust recommender . However , as these similarity metrics are generated from different domains , the linear combination of these similarity measurements does not make sense . To tackle the multi domain measurement problem , we propose to combine these multidomain metrics into the Rankboost framework to generate a reasonable combined recommender . Since the Rankboost algorithm only considers the relative order of the samples and it does not actually use the distance metric , it can generate a fair ranking based on the multi domain information . 7.2 Rankboost
In this framework , each sample tag is considered as an instance . All the tags in the dataset form the instance space X . For each weak ranker , we aim to generate a function fi , which maps an instance xi from the instance space X to the preference space or ranking space R . These given rankings of the instances are called ranking feature , which is taken as a kind of feature to train the weak rankers . In fact , the ranking feature is any kinds of measurement indicating the relative order between two instances . This measure does not have to be metric , since only the relative order is useful and the distance is not used . For example , the fi(x1 ) > fi(x2 ) means the ranking feature of x1 is superior to that of x2 . The distance fi(x1 ) − fi(x2 ) > fi(x2 ) − fi(x3 ) is meaningless . Based on this property , the ranking features can be generated using different kinds of information or from different domains . The requirement is that they can be used to measure the relative order between any two instances . In this paper , these ranking features are generated from both the textual domain and visual domain . So the weak rankers are also called multi domain weak rankers .
In order to learn the ranking , we define the ranking loss as follows . rlossD(H ) =
D(x0 , x1)δ(H(x1 ) ≤ H(x0 ) ) x0,x1
D(x0 , x1 ) = c · max(0 , Φ(x0 , x1 ) )
( 20 )
( 21 ) where Hi is the sum combination of all weak rankers , and δ(π ) is 1 if π holds and 0 otherwise . Φ(· ) is the feedback function , Φ : X × X → R . If x1 is more relevant to the tag than x0 , then Φ(x0 , x1 ) > 0 . This feedback function is usually generated by user interaction .
As is demonstrated in [ 7 ] , the upper bound for this rank ing loss is Zt
Zt =
Dt(x0 , x1)exp(αt(ht(x0 ) − ht(x1) ) )
( 22 ) x0,x1 where ht is the output of the tth weak ranker . The weak learner is only needed to minimize this upper bound . 7.3 Learning to tag
Given the image and some of its initial user created tags , we would like to recommend a list of related tags which may be also applicable to the image . We denote the set of initial tags as OT , and the set of remaining tags as UT . The relevance of the tags is represented in two domains . The average tag co occurrence on other Flickr images is deemed as one domain , and their content correlation as another domain . Then for these domains , we generate several ranking features {fl}3n l=1 ( n is the number of initial tags ) . The first n ranking features are generated based on tag co occurrence ;
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering366 Algorithm 1 Cross domain Rankboost training process
Input : Given tags t1,··· , tn ∈ OT , and t1,··· , tm ∈ UT , and distribution D over UT × UT . whereOT is the set of the initial tags . UT is the set of the remaining tags in the database . l=1 ; ∀ti ∈ UT , tl ∈ OT
Initialize D1 = D . Generate ranking features {fl}3n
T C ( ti , tl ) , l = 1,··· , n for k = 1,··· , K . do
T CC ( ti , t ) , l = 1,··· , n IT C ( ti , t ) , l = 1,··· , n fl(ti , tl ) = Rs fn+l(ti , tl ) = Rs fn+l(ti , tl ) = Rs where ti ∈ UT , tl ∈ OT • Select pair ( ti , tj ) ∈ UT × UT with distribution D . • Get weak ranking hk from ranking features of selected pairs • Update : αk = 1
2 ln( 1+r ti,tj
1−r ) , Dk(hk(ti ) − hk(tj ) )
• Update : Dk+1(ti , tj ) = Dk(ti,tj ) exp(αk(hk(ti)−hk(tj ) ) ) Dk(ti , tj ) exp(αk(hk(ti ) − hk(tj) ) ) where Zk is a normalization factor .
Output the final ranking : H(t ) =K end for ti,tj
Zk k=1 αkhk(t ) .
. where r = Zk = the next n ranking features are generated by TTS ; and the last n are generated by ITS . fl(ti , tl ) = Rs
T C ( ti , tl ) , tl ∈ OT , ti ∈ UT , l = 1,··· , n fn+l(ti , tl ) = Rs f2n+l(ti , tl ) = Rs
( 23 ) T CC ( ti , tl ) , tl ∈ OT , ti ∈ UT , l = 1,··· , n ( 24 ) IT C ( ti , tl ) , tl ∈ OT , ti ∈ UT , l = 1,··· , n ( 25 ) These ranking features of the two domains are combined in the Rankboost framework . Eq 22 shows that the weak ranker depends only on the relative ordering information of the samples rather than the specific scoring information . Since here we adopted similarity measurements from multiple domains , and the score may represent different semantics , it does not make sense to use the scoring information directly . For these reasons , it is reasonable to adopt the Rankboost framework as described in [ 7 ] in this paper . In the training process , the algorithm generates some random pairs over UT × UT with the distribution D . Then based on these random pairs , some weak learners are trained using both the tag co occurrence relevance and the content correlation between the tags in each pair . The distribution D is also updated to minimize the ranking loss . A high weight α is assigned to the pairs indicating importance of making that pair correct .
We adopt the same type of weak ranker as [ 7 ] . In the recommendation process , the top N relevant tags , according to the ranking result , are recommended to the user for further tagging .
8 . EXPERIMENT
In this section , we compare the proposed approach with the commonly used tag co occurrence based recommendation approach in the real world image tagging task .
8.1 Setting
We have collected 1,000,000 images and associated 200,000 tags from Flickr as the database . Since these photos are uploaded by large amount of independent users , there are diverse categories of topics and can reflect the real situation of web images . We randomly select 500 images to perform the manually tagging task . The rest of the images with tags are used to train the tag co occurrence measurement as well as the content correlation measurement .
Some frequency filtering methods are adopted to remove the noise in tag co occurrence . In the real world , the web users may make mistakes during the tagging process . Some of the tags may be misspelled . They will be low frequent tags . To depress this kind of noise , we adopt a simple and effective method by removing the tags that appear less than 50 times in the dataset . There are also some high frequency stop words , such as “ bravo ” , “ image ” , “ photo ” , etc . These tags contain little information . We also consider them as irrelevant tags , which can be suppressed by removing the tags that appear more than 10,000 times in the dataset .
To initialize the feedback function D for the Rankboost algorithm , we adopt the pseudo feedback function generated from WordNet , which contains the human created knowledge about word correlations . Using WordNet for initialization is less expensive than the human labeling . However , since there are lots of tags out of the scope of WordNet , we can just generate the feedback function among the tags within the WordNet corpus . To extend the coverage of the feedback function , human interaction is unavoidable . Given some initial tags , if tag x1 gets a higher similarity score to the initial tags than tag x0 in the WordNet , the feedback function Φ(x0 , x1 ) > 0 ; otherwise Φ(x0 , x1 ) < 0 .
For each test image , we give 5 initial tags generated by users on Flickr . For the baseline method , we adopt the commonly used recommendation by tag co occurrence . For the second method , we use only tag co occurrence as the ranking feature for the Rankboost recommendation . For the third method , we use both tag co occurrence and content correlation in the Rankboost recommendation . To provide real time recommendation , we calculate the co occurrence similarity and content similarity of all tags in the database offline , and the Rankboost algorithm is only performed on the top 100 relevant tags for each image .
8.2 Evaluation
Each recommendation approach will generate an ordered list of relevant tags for each image . Then a volunteer is required to evaluate these recommended tags . If a tag is it will be marked true ; otherwise relevant to the image , false . The average precision of the topN ( N=5 ) recommendations and the coverage over all correct recommendations are adopted to qualitatively measure the performance of each recommendation method . The coverage is defined as the proportion of correct tags ( including all correct tags by both methods and initial tags ) that are recommended by the specific method . We adopt the coverage rather than the recall , because the recall is unapplicable for the recommendation task . x∈T opN δ(x|mi ) x∈T opN δ(x|mi ) i
Coverage(mi ) =
( 26 )
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering367 fl 1 , given method i , x is related tag ;
0 , otherwise .
( 27 )
δ(x|mi ) =
8.3 Experiment A : Multi domain relevance VS tag cooccurrence
In this experiment , we aim to compare the Multi domain Relevance based Rankboost recommendation ( MRR ) with the Tag Co occurrence based tag recommendation ( TC ) . For the MRR method , one weak ranker is trained based on the tag co occurrence information ; another one is trained by the tag content correlation ; and a third one is trained by the image conditioned tag correlaion . These weak rankers are combined together into the Rankboost framework . The comparison between MRR and TC shows how much of the improvement is gained by incorporating the tag content correlation and image conditioned tag correlation . To reveal how much is gained by the multi domain features , we further compared the MRR method with the Tag Co occurrence based Rankboost ( TCR ) .
We randomly choose 20 % of sample images as test data , and the rest images and associated tags are used as the training data . To train the TCR model , we count the cooccurrence frequency between every pair of tags from the collection , and then normalize them into range 0 to 1 . For the MRR method , we train the tag based weak ranker the same way as the purely tag co occurrence based method . In the visual domain , we generate the ranking features based on the visual similarity of these tags , which are discussed in the previous sections . Then we combine these weak rankers with the Rankboost algorithm .
Figure 5 and Figure 6 compare the performance of the two methods under 5 initial tags . In Figure 5 , the left figure shows average precision at top 10 tags . “ M1 ” represents the TC method [ 18 ] . “ M2 ” denotes the TCR . “ M3 ” denotes the MRR method . Comparing M2 and M1 , we find the supervised recommendation outperforms the unsupervised method by 3.3 % in precision and 8.8 % in coverage . Comparison of M3 with M2 shows that after the combination of content correlation , the precision and coverage gain 5.5 % and 10.5 % separately . In total , the proposed hybrid information based Rankboost has gained 9.0 % in precision and 20.3 % in coverage over the commonly used tag co occurrence approach . These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the supervised recommendation as well as the usefulness of the correlation of the image content .
( a ) Precision@5
( b ) Coverage@5
Figure 5 : Performance of different methods .
Figure 6 : Tag recommendation examples .
Figure 6 gives an illustration of the tag recommendation results . The texts below each image are its tags . The first row is the initial tags assigned by the Flickr users . The second row is the results of the simple tag co occurrence method [ 18 ] . The third row is the result for tag domain Rankboost method , and the last row is multi domain Rankboost method . The proposed method provides more relevant tags . 8.4 Experiment B : Rankboost VS linear com bination
To combine the visual correlation with the tag cooccurrence , we can also use the linear combination rather than the Rankboost algorithm . For the multi domain relevance linear combination method ( MRL ) , we generate a new similarity score in the following form .
Rs linear = Rs
T C + η1Rs
T CC + η2Rs
IT C
Ra linear = Ra
T C + ζ1Ra
T CC + ζ2Ra
IT C
( 28 )
( 29 ) where Rs linear is the combination of the symmetric similarity measurement , and Ra linear is the combination for asymmetric similarity . η1 , η2 , ζ1 , ζ2 are the combination coefficients , which are determined by experiments .
This kind of linear combination also takes multi domain correlation information , but there are two disadvantages for this simple method . Firstly , the combinational coefficients is difficult to determine automatically . Secondly , the linear combination method combines the similarity score in different domains , which is not reasonable . In the Rankboost method , we combine the results of the weak rankers rather than the similarity scores .
In this experiment , we intend to demonstrate the advantage of Rankboost based multi domain recommendation over the linear combination . For each test data , we give K ( K=1,3,5,8 ) initial tags , and a ranking of the rest tags are generated by both Rankboost and the linear combination method . For the linear combination method , the set both η1 , η2 and ζ1 , ζ2 to 1 . Then the precision at top 10 tags are evaluated manually . The results are shown in Fig 7 .
From these comparisons , we find that both precision@10 and coverage@10 rise with increasing the number of initial tags . The Rankboost algorithm outperforms the simple lin
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering368 ( a )
( b )
Figure 7 : Comparison with linear combinations
Figure 9 : precision@N with KN irrelevant tags
8.6 Experiment D : Noise resistance
Noise exists in the real world data . We can not assume that the tags on the web are all correct . For the real application , noise resistance is a critical feature . In this experiment , we would like to show this property of the proposed recommendation approach . 5 initial correct tags are given for each test image . In this experiment , we also generate some noise ( irrelevant tags ) , which are combined with the correct tags . For a detailed analysis of the influence of noise on the recommendation results , we gradually increase the number of irrelevant tags KN from 1 up to 5 . The final precisions at topN ( N=1,5,10 ) under each irrelevant rate are shown in Figure 9 .
From the figure , we find the precision of the recommendation drops when the number of irrelevant tags increase . The reason is that the irrelevant tags have mislead the ranking function . The irrelevant tags may not relate to each other , while the correct tags of the same image are semantically related to each other . Thus the ranking algorithm will still take more consideration on tags related to the correct ones . This is also reflected in the result . Even with 5 irrelevant tags , that is 50 % of the number of tags , the precision@1,5,10 still remain above 75%,73 % and 53 % respectively . This means the algorithm is applicable with 50 % of irrelevant tags , which is actually worse than the real world situation . By sampling 10,000 images from Flickr , the statistic shows that on average , there are about 24 % of tags for each image are irrelevant . 8.7 Experiment E : Computational cost
Computational cost is also one of the main considerations for the web scenarios . The main computational time for the proposed methods lies on the visual similarity measurement between tags . Fortunately , this process can be generated offline . We first generate a dictionary of tags , and then generate both co occurrence based similarity measurement as well as the content based tag similarity measurement offline . For the online recommendation , we only need to rank the tags according to the initially labeled tags . This process is very fast . The details of the computational time for each sample under different number of initial tags are shown in the following table . This experiment is performed by Intel(R ) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU@2.00GHz , 1G memory . For each image , the multi domain Rankboost method takes only 0.02 second .
Figure 8 : precision@N with KI initial tags . ear combination of the ranking features . This advantage is more obvious when the number of initial tags is larger . This is because given more initial tags , the Rankboost algorithm will have more information for ranking as well as more information to determine how to more effectively combine the two kinds of ranking features . While for the linear combination algorithm , since the combination coefficients are fixed , it is not likely for this method to optimize the combination . The increase of performance in the linear algorithm is purely based on more information for ranking . 8.5 Experiment C : Parameter influence
In this experiment , we would like to study the influence of the number of initial tags KI . In the real world , there may not be large amount of tags for each image . The number of initial tags may greatly limit the application of the method . In this study , we selected a collection of images which have more than 10 initial tags . Then we set KI from 1 to 8 , and calculate the precision@1,5,10 under respective initial tag setting . The results are shown in the following figure .
From this results , we find the precision of the recommendation is improved with the increasing of KI . This is because with more initial tags , the algorithm can use more information to predict the content of the image . It is also found that the precision with 5 initial tags is already acceptable for a common recommendation system . Fortunately , with respect to the statistic generated from the 10,000 random sampling from Flickr , the average number of correct tags for an image is above 5 . This means that in general cases the users can label more than 5 correct tags , and then it is possible to apply this recommendation scheme on Flickr to help users tagging more .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering369 Table 1 : Computational cost between different methods .
Training
Test
TC 0.178 0.001
TCR MRL MRR 2.195 0.183 0.002 0.002
2.190 0.001
In Table 8.7 , the training time shows the cost for calculating the similarity between each concept pair . For recommendation , the time shows the cost for generating a recommendation list for each target image . From this comparison , we find the computational cost for the proposed method lies mainly on the computation of the visual information . However , the building of VLM can be performed offline in the training process . So the computational time for the online recommendation process is almost the same for all the methods .
9 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we have introduced the learning based tag recommendation approach . It generates ranking features from multi modality correlations , and learns an optimal combination of these ranking features by the Rankboost algorithm . This recommendation will update each time when a new tag is added , the efficiency makes this recommendation method suitable for real time applications . With this learning based recommendation , better quality of recommendations is achieved , and the users are reminded of more diverse and correlated tags . Experiments also demonstrate that this learning to tag framework is more effective than current approaches and the combination of multi modality relevance is helpful to tag recommendation .
10 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The research is supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China ( 60672056 ) , the 863 Program ( 2008AA01Z117 ) , and USTC Postgraduate Innovation Foundation ( KD2007049 ) .
11 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Akbas and F . Yarman Vural . Automatic image annotation by ensemble of visual descriptors . CVPR ’07 . , June 2007 .
[ 2 ] M . Ames and M . Naaman . Why we tag : motivations for annotation in mobile and online media . In CHI ’07 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] J . Amores , N . Sebe , and P . Radeva . Context based object class recognition and retrieval by generalized correlograms . IEEE Trans . Pattern Anal . Mach . Intell . , 29(10):1818–1833 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] Z . Bar Yossef and M . Gurevich . Random sampling from a search engine ’s index . In WWW ’06 Proceedings , 2006 .
[ 5 ] J . Blythe and Y . Gil . Incremental formalization of document annotations through ontology based paraphrasing . In WWW ’04 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] S . Boll , P . Sandhaus , A . Scherp , and U . Westermann .
Semantics , content , and structure of many for the creation of personal photo albums . In Proceedings of ACM Multimedia ’07 , 2007 .
[ 7 ] Y . Freund , R . Iyer , R . E . Schapire , and Y . Singer . An efficient boosting algorithm for combining preferences . In Proceedings of ICML’98 , , 1998 .
[ 8 ] G . Koloniari , Y . Petrakis , E . Pitoura , and T . Tsotsos .
Query workload aware overlay construction using histograms . In Proceedings of CIKM ’05 , 2005 .
[ 9 ] H . Li , Y . Wang , D . Zhang , M . Zhang , and E . Y .
Chang . Pfp : Parallel fp growth for query recommendation . In ACM Recommendation Systems , Lausanne , , 2008 .
[ 10 ] X . Li , C . G . Snoek , and M . Worring . Learning tag relevance by neighbor voting for social image retrieval . In Proceedings of MIR ’08 , 2008 .
[ 11 ] J . Liu , B . Wang , M . Li , Z . Li , W . Ma , H . Lu , and
S . Ma . Dual cross media relevance model for image annotation . In Multimedia’07 , 2007 .
[ 12 ] J . Mairal , F . Bach , J . Ponce , G . Sapiro , and
A . Zisserman . Supervised dictionary learning , 2008 .
[ 13 ] M . Naaman and R . Nair . Zonetag ’s collaborative tag suggestions : What is this person doing in my phone ? In IEEE Multimedia , , 2008 .
[ 14 ] G J Qi , X S Hua , Y . Rui , J . Tang , T . Mei , and
H J Zhang . Correlative multi label video annotation . In Proceedings of ACM Multimedia’07 , 2007 .
[ 15 ] Y . Qi , K . S . Candan , J . Tatemura , S . Chen , and
F . Liao . Supporting olap operations over imperfectly integrated taxonomies . In SIGMOD’08 Conference , 2008 .
[ 16 ] X . Rui , M . Li , Z . Li , W Y Ma , and N . Yu . Bipartite graph reinforcement model for web image annotation . In Multimedia’07 , 2007 .
[ 17 ] S . Sen , S . K . Lam , A . M . Rashid , D . Cosley ,
D . Frankowski , J . Osterhouse , F . M . Harper , and J . Riedl . tagging , communities , vocabulary , evolution . In CSCW ’06 , 2006 .
[ 18 ] B . Sigurbj¨ornsson and R . van Zwol . Flickr tag recommendation based on collective knowledge . In WWW ’08 , 2008 .
[ 19 ] C . G . M . Snoek , B . Huurnink , L . Hollink , M . D . Rijke ,
G . Schreiber , and M . Worring . Adding semantics to detectors for video retrieval . IEEE Transactions on Multimedia , 9 , 2007 .
[ 20 ] C . Wang , F . Jing , L . Zhang , and H J Zhang .
Content based image annotation refinement . Proceedings of CVPR ’07 , 2007 .
[ 21 ] L . Wu , X S Hua , N . Yu , W Y Ma , and S . Li . Flickr distance . Proceedings of ACM Multimedia’08 , 2008 . [ 22 ] L . Wu , M . Li , Z . Li , W Y Ma , and N . Yu . Visual language modeling for image classification . Proceedings of MIR’07 , 2007 .
[ 23 ] R . Yan and A . Hauprmann . Query expansion using probabilistic local feedback with application to multimedia retrieval . In Proceedings of CIKM ’07 , 2007 .
[ 24 ] J . Yu , J . Amores , N . Sebe , P . Radeva , and Q . Tian .
Distance learning for similarity estimation . IEEE Trans . Pattern Anal . Mach . Intell . , 30(3):451–462 , 2008 .
[ 25 ] Y T Zheng , S Y Neo , T S Chua , and Q . Tian .
Visual synset : towards a higher level visual representation . In Proceedings of CVPR’08 , 2008 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Rich Media / Session : Tagging and Clustering370
