Crawling English Japanese Person Name Transliterations from the Web
Satoshi Sato
Graduate School of Engineering
Nagoya University
Furo cho , Chikusa ku
Nagoya , Japan ssato@nueenagoya uacjp
ABSTRACT Automatic compilation of lexicon is a dream of lexicon compilers as well as lexicon users . This paper proposes a system that crawls English Japanese person name transliterations from the Web , which works a back end collector for automatic compilation of bilingual person name lexicon . Our crawler collected 561K transliterations in five months . From them , an English Japanese person name lexicon with 406K entries has been compiled by an automatic post processing . This lexicon is much larger than other similar resources including English Japanese lexicon of HeiNER obtained from Wikipedia .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing ; H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation .
Keywords Mining transliteration pairs , automatic lexicon compilation , person name .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Frequent update and enhancement of lexicon is always welcomed by lexicon users . However , lexicons are rarely updated because it requires a lot of human labor . A solution is replacement of human labor with a computer program . Automatic compilation of lexicon is a dream of lexicon compilers as well as lexicon users .
In this paper , we report an attempt of automatic compilation of a bilingual lexicon from the Web . We have selected English Japanese ( Latin Katakana ) person name lexicon as a target of automatic compilation because of the following reasons .
1 . Between languages that use different alphabets , person name translation is a serious problem for human translators . In English Japanese translation , person
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . names written in Latin script are transliterated into one in Katakana script according to their pronunciations . English Japanese transliteration of person name is difficult because of several reasons , such as limited coverage of existing bilingual lexicons , non English ( eg , French and German ) person names appeared in English texts , and spelling variants in Katakana script .
2 . There is a possibility that we can compile a large English
Japanese person name lexicon from the Web , because a lot of transliteration instances of person names exist on the Web . Actually , human translators use the Web as a virtual low quality bilingual lexicon .
3 . New person names are produced ; new person name transliterations are produced in every day . Human translators hope frequent update of bilingual personname lexicon .
This paper proposes a system that crawls English Japanese person name transliterations from the Web , which works as a back end collector for automatic lexicon compilation . From collected transliterations , a bilingual person name lexicon is produced by an automatic post processing . This attempt of automatic lexicon compilation can be viewed as a conversion from a virtual low quality bilingual lexicon ( ie , the Web ) to a real high quality bilingual lexicon .
2 . SYSTEM
Figure 1 shows an overview of the system , Tsumugi Crawler .
The system consists of four components : ( 1 ) person name pool , which keeps monolingual ( English or Japanese ) person names to be searched . ( 2 ) Tsumugi Finder , which searches transliterations ( or back transliterations ) of a monolingual ( 3 ) PN filter , a person name filter , which person name . ( 4 ) transliteration selects person names from candidates . database , which keeps collected transliteration pairs .
The central component of the system is the Tsumugi Finder .
First , the Finder picks a monolingual person name from the person name pool , and sends it to Yahoo Japan! ’s search engine and obtains the search results ( 100 snippets in Japanese ) . Because Japanese texts frequently include partially bilingual texts , as Nagata et al.[2 ] reported , it is highly expected that the obtained snippets include ( back )transliterations of the person name of the search query .
From the obtained snippets , S filter extracts strings that satisfy a predefined style requirement of person name . We have defined a person name as a term that consists of a first
1151WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 2009 person name pool
? monolingual person name
?
Yahoo Japan! ’s search engine
? search result ( 100 snippets )
? S filter ? T filter ? R filter ?
?
PN filter
? monolingual person names
?
Tsumugi Finder
( back )transliterations
? transliterations database
Figure 1 : Overview of Tsumugi Crawler name and a last name , and optionally a middle name . The style requirement is implemented by two regular expressions : one for English , the other for Japanese .
T filter checks transliteration correspondence between the person name ( input ) and every candidate produced by Sfilter . T filter uses transliteration score between an English term and a Japanese term [ 3 ] , which is an estimated pronunciation similarity of two terms . T filter removes a hopeless candidates whose score is less than the predetermined threshold .
R filter sorts remaining candidates based on their frequencies in the snippets . It always passes the first ranked candidates ; it also passes a few hopeful candidates as spelling variants of the first ranked candidate . Finally , the obtained transliteration pairs are stored into the transliteration database .
The snippets obtained in the above process are also used as a source from which the system collects new monolingual person names . Monolingual person names are obtained by applying PN filter [ 1 ] to the candidates produced by S filter and they are stored into the person name pool .
3 . COMPILED LEXICON
Tsumugi Crawler collected 561K transliterations in five months run . The final bilingual lexicon was produced by the following post processing .
1 . Applying the newest version of S filter and T filter to the collected transliterations . ( 561K → 558K )
2 . Assign a forward rank and a backward rank to each transliteration . The forward rank of a transliteration pair ti = fien , jai' is a rank among the competitive ti ; the rank is determined by the estimated freset
[ i quency calculated from the hit counts of “ en and jai ” . When ti is in the first rank , jai is the best ( frequently used ) transliteration of en . A backward rank is calculated by the same way but reverse direction .
3 . Select transliterations in the following types and filter out other transliterations . ( 558K → 454K )
Type 1 ( standard transliteration ) transliteration that has the first forward rank and the first backward rank .
Type 2 ( transliteration variant ) transliteration that has the first forward rank or the first backward rank ( except type 1 ) .
4 . Filter out every transliteration whose estimated fre quency is 0 . ( 454K → 441K )
5 . Apply the newest version of PN filter to the remaining transliterations . ( 441K → 406K )
The size of the produced lexicon is 406,416 ( type 1 entries = 286,047 , type 2 entries = 120,369 ; English spellings = 316,259 , Japanese spellings = 379,504 ) .
Typical size of existing book style English Japanese person name dictionary is around 20,000 . HeiNER[4 ] provides bilingual lexicon of named entities , which was compiled from inter language links of Wikipedia . The size of English Japanese lexicon of HeiNER is 125,053 , which includes other types of name entities such as place , product , and company . The size of the largest database of English Japanese person name that we know is 175,000 , which is sold by a database company . Our lexicon is much larger than these existing resources .
Because of the large size , evaluation of our lexicon is difficult and time consuming . We have conducted a preliminary evaluation of precision , where 420 type 1 entries have been examined by a human evaluator . We have obtained the result that 390 ( 93 % ) entries are correct and 30 ( 7 % ) entries are incorrect ( they are correct transliteration pairs of other types of named entities ) .
Evaluation of recall of our lexicon is much difficult because we do not know the total size of English Japanese personname transliterations on the Web . We have conducted a rough estimation by using a set of known transliterations extracted from four English books and their Japanese translations . Among 658 known transliterations that can be found by Yahoo Japan! ’s search engine , 431 ( 65.5 % ) transliterations have been already recorded in our lexicon .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research has been supported by the Kayamori Foun dation of Informational Science Advancement .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Kaide and S . Sato . A person name classifier by using probability difference ( in Japanese ) . In Proc . of NLP 09 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] M . Nagata , T . Saito , and K . Suzuki . Using the Web as a bilingual dictionary . In Proc . of the workshop on Data driven methods in machine translation , pages 1–8 , 2001 .
[ 3 ] Y . Sakakibara and S . Sato . Automatic compilation of a bilingual person name lexicon ( in Japanese ) . In Proc . of NLP 07 , pages 879–882 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] W . Wentland , J . Knopp , C . Silberer , and M . Hartung .
Building a multilingual lexical resource for named entity disambiguation , translation and transliteration . In Proc . of LREC 08 , 2008 .
1152WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 2009
