Searching for Events in the Blogosphere
Manolis Platakis platakis@diuoagr
Dimitrios Kotsakos dkotsakos@diuoagr
Dimitrios Gunopulos dg@diuoagr
Dept . of Informatics and Telecommunications ,
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens , Greece
ABSTRACT Over the last few years , blogs ( web logs ) have gained massive popularity and have become one of the most influential web social media in our times . Every blog post in the Blogosphere has a well defined timestamp , which is not taken into account by search engines . By conducting research regarding this feature of the Blogosphere , we can attempt to discover bursty terms and correlations between them during a time interval . We apply Kleinberg ’s automaton on extracted titles of blog posts to discover bursty terms , we introduce a novel representation of a term ’s burstiness evolution called State Series and we employ a Euclidean based distance metric to discover potential correlations between terms without taking into account their context . We evaluate the results trying to match them with real life events . Finally , we propose some ideas for further evaluation techniques and future research in the field .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Experimentation Keywords Blogs , social media , burst analysis , hot correlation , information retrieval , text mining
1 . INTRODUCTION Everybody reads blogs . Almost everybody maintains one . Wikipedia defines a blog as a website , usually maintained by an individual , with regular entries of commentary , descriptions of events , or other material such as graphics or video . Over the last few years , blogs ( web logs ) have gained massive popularity and have become one of the most influential web social media in our times . Anyone with an internet connection can create his own blog for free , using web platforms developed for this specific reason ( eg blogger.com , wordpress.com etc ) According to blog search engine Technorati.com there are over 175,000 new blogs every day , 1.6 million new posts per day and over 113 million blogs ( not including millions of non English blogs ) exist today . The huge growth of blogging provides a wealth of information waiting to be extracted . Blog analysis and searching in blogs introduces new challenges for research in information retrieval because blogs’ contents have a very specific characteristic not present in traditional web content : a timestamp exists in every blog post . Every blog post in the Blogosphere has a well defined value in the temporal axis . Traditional blogs’ search engines don’t take into account the temporal dimension and treat the blogs as plain web content ; or just pay attention to the category tags that may accompany a post . topics , keyword
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
By taking into consideration the timestamp of each blog post we can try to detect the period in which the popularity of a specific keyword increases or decreases . Such functionality is important because it allows us to gauge the users’ interests related to a specific topic over time . Our contribution : In this paper we develop a technique to address the problem of identifying events in the Blogosphere . In our technique we apply Kleinberg ’s automaton [ 2 ] on extracted titles of blog posts to discover bursty terms , we introduce a novel representation of a term ’s burstiness evolution called State Series and we employ a Euclidean based distance in order to discover potential correlations between terms without taking into account their context . Related work : As the number and size of large time stamped collections increases this problem becomes more and more important [ 1 ] , resulting in an evolution clearly presented in [ 3 ] . Due to space constraints we refer to [ 4 ] for a more extensive review of the related work . 2 . OUR APPROACH We search for events in the Blogosphere . We define an event in the Blogosphere as a small subset of keywords able to describe one or more real life events that occurred during the period of study . To discover them we try to identify correlated bursty terms , meaning bursty terms whose burstiness exhibits a similar behavior in the temporal axis . A burst is marked whenever the popularity of a specific keyword dramatically and unexpectedly increases . Doing so , we omit taking into account a keyword ’s possible co existence with another keyword in the same title . Ignoring all those keyword pairs enables us to gain significant computational time and to search for conceptually correlated keywords although they may not appear in the same document ( eg separately used synonyms ) . In order to identify bursty terms , meaning specific words whose appearances increase radically in short periods of time in comparison to the long period we study , we use the technique proposed by Kleinberg [ 2 ] as decribed in [ 4 ] . Afterwards we evaluate the accuracy of the bursty terms by trying to match them with real life events that took place in the bursty period of time . A certain event is formed by a group of correlated terms . As the popularity of a specific topic diminishes , this group ceases to exist . We try to obtain keywords' correlations , in order to automatically identify such groups . We address this problem , assuming that related keywords produce similar activity as far as burstiness for burstiness representation of a term t called State Series is introduced and is defined as follows : concerned . A mechanism is
SSt = ( st1 , , sti , ,stn ) , where sti represents the burstiness state of term t at timestamp i , produced by the automaton . Figure 1 compares the frequency curve of the term indiana to the corresponding SS , proving that the latter is a satisfactory representation . Furthermore we employ
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091225 a Euclidean based distance metric to calculate the dissimilarity between the SSs of two different terms . Finally , we obtain events by accumulating the 5 Nearest Neighbors for each keyword , assuming that 5 terms can adequately describe an event . Last but not least we evaluate these events by trying to pair this topic with a real life event that took place in the period of study . results shown in Table 1 add to the assumption that events can be mined through the extraction of state series .
Figure 1 . Frequency curve and SS of the keyword "indiana" 3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION Our experimental evaluation shows that blog posts’ titles prove sufficient to mine the underlying bursts . Not using the whole body of each blog post reduces the total computational time required . Therefore , we extend this approach to search for events through the burstiness pattern of keywords appearing in blog posts’ titles . Data description : We experimented on posts from millions of blogs around the web ’s free blog hosts ( eg blogger.com , wordpress.com , livejournal.com etc . ) After some pre processing of our initial dataset we ended up with 11,198,076 titles containing 38,814 different keywords with various appearances during the period May 1 – May 30 , 2008 . We used an n state automaton , incrementing n and monitoring the percentage of the terms with altered 5 NNs in comparison to the results of the n 1 state automaton . As shown in Figure 2 , the greater state value that could be reached was 13 . The ratio of the exponential rate of the automaton ’s each subsequent state to the rate of the previous state was picked to be 1.3 , after several experimental trials . This value provides us with increased diversity in the state series . The automaton identified 21.53 % of the terms as bursty .
Figure 2 . Changing the number of states
Semantic evaluation : A visualized example of identifying bursty keyword correlations using the SS similiarity is depicted in Figure 3 , where the SSs for the 3 NNs of the term Indiana are shown . The terms indiana , jones , crystal and skull appear in the results as bursty ones . While trying to evaluate the accuracy of this result , we found out that on May 22nd 2008 the movie “ Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull ” was released . Additional
Figure 3 . A comparison of the SS of related keywords
As seen in Figure 3 , in this case the proposed method came out to be resistant to effects of other bursts of a term , that seem to be irrelevant to the event being described by the 5 NNs ; indiana exhibits two bursts during May , one lasting from 6th to 7th day and one from 22nd to 27th day , but the former one does not affect the high similarity between indiana and the other three terms .
Table 1 . Semantic evaluation results
Term pharaoh liver myanmar cialis indiana
5 NNs
{physique,feminine , akhenaten,liver,transplant} {transplant,marijuana,wig , feminine,physique}
{burma,burmese , appreciation,chait,brutality}
{tadalafil,trent , prescription,pharmacy , impotence}
{jones,crystal,kingdom , skull,islander}
Burst
Intervals
( 2 3 )
( 2 3 )
( 5 14 ) ( 5 6 ) ( 8 9 ) ( 19 20 ) ( 6 7 ) ( 22 27 )
4 . ONGOING AND FUTURE WORK Our results regarding events could be improved if we were to examine burstiness similarity in sub intervals during a longer period of time ; a direction which we are eager to explore in the near future . We plan to evaluate the precision of our method by calculating the percentage of the NNs that actually co exist in the same documents with the examined term . This work has been partially supported by the SemsorGrid4Env EC project . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Bansal , N . , Koudas , N . , BlogScope : A System for Online
Analysis of High Volume Text Streams . VLDB 2007 : 14101413 .
[ 2 ] Kleinberg , J . M . , ( 2003 ) , Bursty and hierarchical structure in streams , Data mining and Knowledge Discovery , 7(4 ) : 373397 .
[ 3 ] Kumar , R . , Novak , J . , Raghavan , P.,Tomkins , A . On the
Bursty Evolution of Blogspace . World Wide Web 8(2 ) : 159178 ( 2005 ) .
[ 4 ] Platakis , M . , Kotsakos , D . , Gunopulos , D . Discovering Hot Topics in the Blogosphere . In Proc . of the 2nd Panhellenic Scientific Student Conference on Informatics , Related Technologies and Applications EUREKA 2008 , pp . 122 132 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091226
