Competitive Analysis from Click Through Log
Gang Wang1 , Jian Hu1 , Yunzhang Zhu2 , Hua Li1 and Zheng Chen1
1Microsoft Research Asia No . 49 Zhichun Road ,
Beijing 100190 , PR China
{gawa , jianh , huli , zhengc}@microsoft.com
2 Department of Fundamental Science ,
Tsinghua University ,
Beijing 100084 , PR China zhuyz05@mailstsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT Existing keyword suggestion tools from various search engine companies could automatically suggest keywords related to the advertisers’ products or services , counting in simple statistics of the keywords , such as search volume , cost per click ( CPC ) , etc . However , the nature of the generalized Second Price Auction suggests that better understanding the competitors’ keyword selection and bidding strategies better helps to win the auction , other than only relying on general search statistics . In this paper , we propose a novel keyword suggestion strategy , called Competitive Analysis , to explore the keyword based competition relationships among advertisers and eventually help advertisers to build campaigns with better performance . The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed Competitive Analysis can both help advertisers to promote their product selling and generate more revenue to the search engine companies . Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information System ] : Information Storage and Retrieval— Online Information Services ; I.5 [ Pattern Classification ] ; General Terms Algortihm , Design , Performance , Experimentation Keywords Keyword advertising , keyword suggestion , competitive analysis . 1 . INTRODUCTION
Search Engine Advertising is on the basis of the advertisers’ bidding on keywords and driven by the generalized Second Price Auction mechanism [ 1 ] . The advertiser creates an advertisement through providing search engine the displayed ads title , description text and URL together with a set of keywords to bid for the advertisement , which are usually related to the product or service it wishes to advertise . However , it has been difficult for advertisers to precisely identify their requirements on keywords which can introduce high user interests and traffics , only relying on the general traffic statistics on some related keywords . Moreover , a top advertiser would be more interested in its competitor ’s concerns and attempts so as trying to gain the advantages over the competitors and boost their own advertisements . As the main motivation of this paper , the proposed Competitor Analysis is to provide advertiser the competitive analysis tool to automatically analyze and understand the competition relationship among a group of advertisers and the related keyword competitions as well .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
2 . COMPETITIVE ANALYSIS METHOD In general search engine , if a query q leads users to two different advertiser ’s websites wa and wb , then wa and wb are competitors with each other on the query q . Thus , the search clickthrough data , which is the log data generated by Web search engine , is a good resource to discover the competitive relations . Our approach consists of three major steps , which is illustrated in Figure 1 : 1 . In order to filter out the noise from log data , the first step is to extract a number of concept keywords from queries . The concept keywords have compact and precise meanings and can be considered as the website abstraction . Hence , each website is represented by a vector of concept keywords . 2 . In the second step , we build a bipartite graph based on the results from the first step . One partition of the graph consists of the extracted concept keywords and another partition consists of advertisers’ websites . The Markov random walk algorithm [ 2 ] is then used to measure the degree of competition according to website proximities in the bipartite graph . 3 . In the last step , we choose a set of important keyword groups and arrange competitors into them according to the results from the Markov random walk algorithm . Figure 1 : The algorithm of competitive analysis consists of three major steps .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
The search click through log we use for the experiments is collected from a commercial search engine Live Search for one month . Table 1 illustrates the competitive results for two websites “ expedia.com ” and “ shoes.com ” . The first task of the competitive analysis is to provide a list of the ranked websites competing against the seed node . Since the degree of competition for each competitor is recognized , we choose the top 20 competitors displayed .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091051 Moreover , the competitive analysis produces a list of ranked keywords on which the seed node competes with other websites , and the top 10 keywords are presented in the paper . It is crucial for an advertiser to identify which websites are most competitive on a certain keyword so that the advertiser can make the accurate strategy to target on the right audience and drag the traffic from its competitors . Therefore , we arrange the competitors into different keyword categories . For each keyword category , the websites are also ranked according to the degree of competition on this keyword . • The competitors of “ expedia.com ” are plentiful and broad in concept as well including travel agencies , airline companies , hotels , travel insurance companies , etc . If “ expedia.com ” would like to launch an ad campaign to promote the hotel service ( no.3 in keyword category ) , the top competitors are “ hotels.com ” , “ disneygocom ” and “ tripadvisor.com ” . Thus , “ expedia.com ” should collect their ad information such as ad coverage and bidding so as to gain the advantages over these competitors . If “ expedia.com ” would like to attract the traffic from those persons seeking for the last minute flight ( no.7 in keyword category ) , it should pay more attentions to the ads from “ lastminutedeals.com ” , “ lastminutetravel.com ” and “ smartertravel.com ” . “ Shoes.com ” mainly sells shoes and related products online . The competitor composition of “ shoes.com ” is quite interesting with “ payless.com ” in a dominating position . The
• keyword category varies from general shoes categories such as “ women shoes ” , “ men shoes ” and “ kid shoes ” to brand based categories like “ converse shoes ” , “ simpson shoes ” , “ adidas shoes ” and etc . If “ shoes.com ” wants to build an ad campaign targeting to female customers , they really need to look into the top competitors at “ women shoes ” category , which are totally different from the category of “ men shoes ” .
4 . RELATED WORKS Keyword substitution is the most direct technique for keyword suggestion . The methods transforming keyword completely different through the click through log analysis[3 ] , latent semantic indexing ( LSI ) [ 4 ] and pseudo relevance feedback [ 5 ] . Keyword generation is another important technique which suggests keywords through exploiting the content from web pages . Turney et al . [ 6 ] used keyword candidates to query the search engine , and then use the number of hit documents as an additional feature for keyword generation . Kelleher [ 7 ] used the link information of a web page , thus design a “ semantic ratio ” feature with to anchor text to extract keyword . Yih et al . [ 8 ] described a supervised approach that uses a number of features such as TF and IDF to learn how to extract keywords from web pages .
Table 1 : The competitive analysis results on two input websites . Top 20 competitors are shown on the left side hand for each input website . The number in bracket indicates the degree of competition . Top 10 competing keywords are shown in the middle . The websites that competing on a keyword are arranged into this keyword , and top 3 competitors are selected .
1 . travelers.com ( 8.8 ) 2 . cheapflights.com ( 7.0 ) 3 . travelstategov ( 6.2 ) 4 . travel.com ( 5.5 ) 5 . flights.com ( 4.8 ) 6 . aaa.com ( 4.7 ) 7 . hotels.com ( 4.6 ) 8 . orbitz.com ( 4.3 ) 9 . usairways.com ( 3.9 ) 10 . cheapoair.com ( 3.6 )
Top 20 Competitors :
11 . travelocity.com ( 3.0 ) 12 . disneygocom ( 2.8 ) 13 . flytecomm.com ( 2.8 ) 14 . cheaptickets.com ( 2.6 ) 15 . delta.com ( 2.6 ) 16 . sidestep.com ( 2.4 ) 17 . priceline.com ( 2.3 ) 18 . kayak.com ( 2.0 ) 19 . tripadvisor.com ( 2.0 ) 20 . mapslivecom ( 1.9 )
Top 20 Competitors :
11 . shoesunlimited.com ( 1.7 ) 12 . planetshoes.com ( 1.7 ) 13 . crocs.com ( 1.5 ) 14 . shoecarnival.com ( 1.5 ) 15 . shopnordstromcom ( 1.4 ) 16 . qualitybridalshoes.com ( 1.4 ) 17 . shoesaboutcom ( 1.3 ) 18 . edhardyshop.com ( 1.3 ) 19 . shoesstyle365com ( 1.2 ) 20 . converse.com ( 1.2 )
1 . payless.com ( 25.6 ) 2 . shoebuy.com ( 9.1 ) 3 . zappos.com ( 8.1 ) 4 . dsw.com ( 5.6 ) 5 . onlineshoes.com ( 5.2 ) 6 . nike.com ( 3.3 ) 7 . jessicasimpsoncollection.com ( 2.8 ) 8 . famousfootwear.com ( 2.1 ) 9 . finishline.com ( 1.9 ) 10 . bakersshoes.com ( 1.7 ) REFERENCES [ 1 ] V . Krishna . Auction Theory . Academic Press , 2002 . [ 2 ] J . Norris . Markov Chains . Cambridge University Press , 1998 . [ 3 ] R . Baeza Yates and A . Tiberi . Extracting semantic relations from query logs . In Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining(KDD 07 ) , 2007 .
[ 4 ] S . C . Deerwester , S . T . Dumais , T . K . Landauer , G . W . Furnas , and R . A . Harshman . Indexing by latent semantic analysis . Journal of the American Society for Information Science , 41(6):391 407 , 1990 .
[ 5 ] M . Mitra , A . Singhal , and C . Buckley . Improving automatic query expansion . In Proceedings of the 21th Annual expedia.com
Keyword Category : 1 . travel 2 . flight 3 . hotel 4 . airfare 5 . vacation 6 . air ticket 7 . last minute 8 . airline flight 9 . air fare 10 . cheap
Keyword Category : 1 . shoes 2 . women shoes 3 . mudd shoes 4 . simpson shoes 5 . converse shoes 6 . kids shoes 7 . men shoes 8 . adidas shoes 9 . bass shoes 10 . discount shoes shoes.com
#1 travelers.com cheapflights.com hotels.com expedia.com aaa.com cheapoair.com lastminutedeals.com usairways.com cheapflights.com cheapflights.com
#1 payless.com shoebuy.com shoesunlimited.com onlineshoes.com converse.com payless.com intrends.com finishline.com ghbass.com zappos.com
#2 travelstategov travel.com disneygocom orbitz.com disneygocom cheaptickets.com lastminutetravel.com flytecomm.com priceline.com cheapoair.com
#3 travel.com flights.com tripadvisor.com travelocity.com tripadvisor.com cheapair.com smartertravel.com delta.com airfarewatchdog.com cheaptickets.com
#2 shoebuy.com famousfootwear.com shoesaboutcom jessicasimpsoncollection.com discountshoesonsale.com shoesunlimited.com ajkings.com discountshoesonsale.com shoestation.com
#3 zappos.com bakersshoes.com shoesstyle365com simpson heat.com myairshoes.com shoesaboutcom styledrops.com myairshoes.com awxus.com elite shoes discount.com discountshoesonsale.com
International ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR 98 ) , 1998 .
[ 6 ] Turney , PD , Coherent Keyphrase extraction via web mining . In
Proc . of the 16th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence ( IJCAI 03 ) , 2003 .
[ 7 ] Kelleher , D . and Luz , S . , Automatic hypertext keyphrase detection . In Proc . of the 18th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence ( IJCAI 05 ) , 2005 .
[ 8 ] Yih , W . , Goodman , J . and Carvalho , VR , Finding advertising keywords on web pages . In Proc . of the 15th World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 06 ) , 2006 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091052
