To Join or Not to Join : The Illusion of Privacy in Social Networks with Mixed Public and Private User Profiles
Elena Zheleva
Department of Computer Science
University of Maryland , College Park elena@csumdedu
Lise Getoor
Department of Computer Science
University of Maryland , College Park getoor@csumdedu
ABSTRACT In order to address privacy concerns , many social media websites allow users to hide their personal profiles from the public . In this work , we show how an adversary can exploit an online social network with a mixture of public and private user profiles to predict the private attributes of users . We map this problem to a relational classification problem and we propose practical models that use friendship and group membership information ( which is often not hidden ) to infer sensitive attributes . The key novel idea is that in addition to friendship links , groups can be carriers of significant information . We show that on several well known social media sites , we can easily and accurately recover the information of private profile users . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work that uses link based and group based classification to study privacy implications in social networks with mixed public and private user profiles .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Information Systems ] : Data Mining
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords privacy , social networks , groups , attribute inference
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In order to address users’ privacy concerns , a number of social media and social network websites , such as Facebook , Orkut and Flickr , allow their participants to set the privacy level of their online profiles and to disclose either some or none of the attributes in their profiles . While some users make use of these features , others are more open to sharing personal information . Some people feel comfortable displaying personal attributes such as age , political affiliation or location , while others do not . In addition , most socialmedia users utilize the social networking services provided by forming friendship links and affiliating with groups of interest . While a person ’s profile may remain private , the friendship links and group affiliations are often visible to the public . Unfortunately , these friendships and affiliations
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . leak information ; in fact , as we will show , they can leak a surpisingly large amount of information .
The problem we consider is sensitive attribute inference in social networks : inferring the private information of users given a social network in which some profiles and all links and group memberships are public ( this is a commonly occurring scenario in existing social media sites ) . We define the problem formally in Section 4 . We believe our work is the first one to look at this problem , and to map it to a relational classification problem in network data with groups . Here , we propose eight privacy attacks for sensitive attribute inference . The attacks use different classifiers and features , and show different ways in which an adversary can utilize links and groups in predicting private information . We evaluate our proposed models using sample datasets from four well known social media websites : Flickr , Facebook , Dogster and BibSonomy . All of these websites allow their users to form friendships and participate in groups , and our results show that attacks using the group information achieve significantly better accuracy than the models that ignore it . This suggests that group memberships have a strong potential for leaking information , and if they are public , users’ privacy in social networks is illusionary at best .
Our contributions include the following : • We identify a number of novel privacy attacks in social networks with a mixture of public and private profiles .
• We propose that in addition to friendship links , group affiliations can be carriers of significant information .
• We show how to reduce the large number of potential groups in order to improve the attribute accuracy .
• We evaluate our attacks on challenging classification tasks in four social media datasets .
• We illustrate the privacy implications of publicly affiliating with groups in social networks and discuss how our study affects anonymization of social networks .
• We show how surprisingly easy it is to infer private in formation from group membership data .
We motivate the problem in the next section . Then , we describe the data model in Section 3 . Section 4 presents the privacy attacks , and Section 5 provides experimental results using these attacks . Section 6 presents related work , and Section 7 discusses the broader implications of our results .
2 . MOTIVATION
Disclosing private information means violating the rights of people to control who can access their private informa
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy531 edges ( the friendship links ) , and H is a set of groups that nodes can belong to . ei,j ∈ E represents a directed link from node vi to node vj . Our model handles undirected links by representing them as pairs of directed links . We describe a group as a hyper edge h ∈ H among all the nodes who belong to that group ; h.U denotes the set of users who are connected through hyper edge h and v.H denotes the groups that node v belongs to . Similarly , v.F is the set of nodes that v has connected to : vi.F = {vj|∃ei,j ∈ E} . A group can also have a set of properties h.T .
We assume that each node v has a sensitive attribute v.a which is either observed or hidden in the data . A sensitive attribute is a personal attribute , such as age , political affiliation or location , which some users in the social network are willing to disclose publicly . A sensitive attribute value can take on one of a set of possible values {a1am} A user profile has a unique id with which the user forms links and participates in groups . Each profile is associated with a sensitive attribute , either observed or hidden . A private profile is one for which the sensitive attribute value is unknown , and a public profile is the opposite : a profile with an observed sensitive attribute value . We refer to the set of nodes with private profiles as the sensitive set of nodes Vs , and to the rest as the observed set Vo . The adversary ’s goal is to predict Vs.A , the sensitive attributes of the private profiles . Here , we study the case where nodes have no other attributes beyond the sensitive attribute . Thus , to make inferences about the sensitive attribute , we need to use some form of relational classifier . While additional attribute information can be helpful and many relational classifiers can make use of it , in our setting this is not possible because all of the private profile attributes are likely to be hidden .
As a running example , we consider the social network presented in Figure 1 . It describes a collection of individuals ( Ana , Bob , Chris , Don , Emma , Fabio , and Gia ) , along with their friendship links and their groups of interest . Chris , Don , Emma and Fabio are displaying their attribute values publicly , while Ana , Bob and Gia are keeping theirs private . Emma and Chris have the same sensitive attribute value ( marked solid ) , Bob , Gia and Fabio share the same attribute value ( marked with stripes ) , and Ana and Don have a third value ( marked with a brick pattern ) . Users are linked by a friendship link , and in this example they are reciprocal . There are two groups that users can participate in : the ” Espresso lovers ” group and the ” Yucatan ” group . While affiliating with some groups may be related to the sensitive attribute , affiliating with others is not . For example , if the sensitive attribute is a person ’s country of origin , the ” Yucatan ” group may be relevant . Thus , this group can leak information about sensitive attributes , although the manner in which it is leaked is not necessarily straightforward .
4 . SENSITIVE ATTRIBUTE INFERENCE
MODELS
The attributes of users who are connected in social networks are often correlated . At the same time , online communities allow very diverse people to connect to each other and form relationships that transcend gender , religion , origin and other boundaries . As this happens , it becomes harder to utilize the complex interactions in online social networks for predicting user attributes .
Attribute disclosure occurs when an adversary is able to
Figure 1 : Toy instance of the data model . tion . In order to prevent private information leakage , it is important to be aware of the ways in which an adversary can attack a social network to learn users’ private attributes . Studies on the challenges of preserving the privacy of individuals in social networks have emerged only in the last few years , and they have concentrated on inferring the identity of nodes based on structural properties such as node degree . In contrast , we are interested in inferring sensitive attribute of nodes using approaches developed for relational learning , another active area of research in the last few years .
The novelty of our work is that we study the implications of mixing private and public profiles in a social network . For example , in Facebook many users choose to set their profiles to private , so that no one but their friends can see their profile details . Yet , fewer people hide their friendship links and even if they do , their friendship links can be found through the backlinks from their public profile friends . Similarly for group participation information – even if a user makes her profile private , her participation in a public group is shown on the group ’s membership list . Currently , neither Facebook nor Flickr allow users to hide their group memberships from public groups . Both commercial and governmental entities may employ privacy attacks for targeted marketing , health care screening or political monitoring – just to mention a few . Therefore , social media website providers need to protect their users against undesired eavesdropping and inform them of the possible privacy breaches and providing them with the means to be in full control of their private data .
Our work is also complimentary to work on data anonymiza tion , in which the goal is to perturb data in such a way that the privacy of individuals is preserved . Our goal is not to release anonymized data but to illustrate how social network data can be exploited to predict hidden information : an essential knowledge in the anonymization process .
We identify a new type of privacy breach in relational data , group membership disclosure : whether a person belongs to a group relevant to the classification of a sensitive attribute . We conjecture that group membership disclosure can lead to attribute disclosure . Thus , hiding group memberships is a key to preserving the privacy of individuals .
3 . DATA MODEL
We represent a social network as a graph G = ( V , E , H ) , where V is a set of n nodes of the same type , E is a set of
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy532 infer the sensitive attribute of a real world entity accurately . The sensitive attribute value of an individual can be modeled as a random variable . This random variable ’s distribution can depend on the overall network ’s attribute distribution , the friendship network ’s attribute distribution and/or the attribute distribution of each group the user joins .
The problem of sensitive attribute inference is to infer the hidden sensitive values , Vs.A , conditioned on the observed sensitive values , links and group membership in graph G . We assume that the adversary can apply a probabilistic model M for predicting the hidden sensitive attribute values , and he can combine the given graph information in various ways as we discuss next . The prediction of each model is : vs.ˆaM = argmax
PM ( vs.a = ai ; G ) . ai where PM ( vs.a = ai ; G ) is the probability that the sensitive attribute value of node vs ∈ Vs is ai according to model M and the observed part of graph G .
We assume that the overall distribution of the sensitive attribute is either known or it can be found using the public profiles . An attack using this distribution is a baseline attack . A successful attack is one which , given extra knowledge , eg , friendship links or group affiliations , has a significantly higher accuracy than the baseline attack . The extra knowledge compromises the privacy of users if there is an attack which uses it and is successful .
4.1 Attacks without links and groups
In the absence of relationship and group information , the only available information is the overall marginal distribution for the sensitive attribute in the public profiles . So , the simplest model is to use this as the basis for predicting the sensitive attributes of the private profiles . More precisely , according to this model , BASIC , the probability of a sensitive attribute value can be estimated as the fraction of observed users who have that sensitive attribute value :
PBASIC ( vs.a = ai ; G ) = P ( vs.a = ai|Vo.A ) =
|Vo.ai|
|Vo|
, where |Vo.ai| is the number of public profiles with sensitive attribute value ai and |Vo| is the total number of public profiles . The adversary using model BASIC picks the most probable attribute value which in this case is the overall mode of the multinomial attribute distribution . In our toy example , the most common observed sensitive attribute is the value that Chris and Emma share . Therefore , the adversary would predict that Ana , Bob and Gia have the same attribute value as well . An obvious problem with this approach is that if there is a sensitive attribute value that is predominant in the observed data , it will be predicted for all users with private profiles . Nevertheless , this attack is always at least as good as a random guess , and we use it as a simple baseline . Next , we look at using friendship information for inferring the attribute value .
4.2 Privacy attacks using links
Link based privacy attacks take advantage of autocorrela− tion , the property that the attribute values of linked objects are correlated . An example of autocorrelation is that people who are friends often share common characteristics ( as in the proverb ” Tell me who your friends are , and I’ll tell you who you are ” ) . Figure 2(a ) shows a graphical representation
Figure 2 : Graphical representation of the models . Grayed areas correspond to variables that are ignored in the model . of the link based classification model . There is a random variable associated with each sensitive attribute v.a , and the sensitive attributes of linked nodes are correlated . The greying of the other two types of random variables means that the group information is not used in this model .
421 Friend aggregate model ( AGG )
The nodes and their links produce a graph structure in which one can identify circles of close friends . For example , the circle of Bob ’s friends is the set of users that he has links to : Bob.F = {Ana , Chris , Emma , F abio} . The friendaggregate model AGG looks at the sensitive attribute distribution amongst the friends of the person under question . According to this model , the probability of the sensitive attribute value can be estimated by :
PAGG(vs.a = ai ; G ) = P ( vs.a = ai|Vo.A , E ) =
|V 0 o .ai| |V 0 o | o = {vo ∈ Vo|∃(vs , vo ) ∈ E} and V 0 o .ai = {vo ∈ where V 0 V 0 o |vo.a = ai} . Again , the adversary using this model picks the most probable attribute value ( ie , the mode of the friends’ attribute distribution ) . In our toy example ( Figure 1 ) , Bob would pick the same value as Emma and Chris , Ana the same label as Don , and Gia will be undecided between Don ’s , Emma ’s and Fabio ’s label . One problem with this method is the one when person ’s friends are very diverse , as in Gia ’s case , it will be difficult to make a prediction .
422 Collective classification model ( CC )
Collective classification also takes advantage of autocorrelation between linked objects . Unlike more traditional methods , in which each instance is classified independently of the rest , collective classification aims at learning and inferring class labels of linked objects together . In our setting , it makes use of not only the public profiles but also the inferred values for connected private profiles . Collective classification has been an active area of research in the last decade ( see Sen et al . [ 21 ] for a survey ) . Some of the approximate inference algorithms proposed include iterative classification ( ICA ) , Gibbs sampling , loopy belief propagation and meanfield relaxation labeling .
For our experiments , we have chosen to use ICA because it is simple , fast and has been shown to perform well on a number of problems [ 21 ] . In our setting , ICA first assigns a label to each private profile based on the labels of the friends with public profiles , then it iteratively re assigns labels considering the labels of both public and private profile friends .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy533 The assignment is based on a local classifier which takes the friends’ class labels as features . For example , a simple classifier could assign a label based on the majority of the friends labels . A more sophisticated classifier can be trained using the counts of friends’ labels .
423 Flat link model ( LINK )
Another approach to dealing with links is to ” flatten ” the data by considering the adjacency matrix of the graph . In this model , each row in the matrix is a user instance . In other words , each user has a list of binary features of the size of the network , and each feature has a value of 1 if the user is friends with the person who corresponds to this feature , and 0 otherwise . The user instance also has a class label which is known if the user ’s profile is public , and unknown if it is private . The instances with public profiles are the training data which can be fed to any traditional classifier , such as Na¨ıve Bayes , logistic regression or SVM . The learned model can then be applied to predict the private profile labels .
424 Blockmodeling attack ( BLOCK )
The next category of link based methods we explored are approaches based on blockmodeling [ 24 , 2 ] . The basic idea behind stochastic blockmodeling is that users form natural clusters or blocks , and their interactions can be explained by the blocks they belong to . In particular , the link probability between two users is the same as the link probability between their corresponding blocks . If sensitive attribute values separate users into blocks , then based on the observed interactions of a private profile user with public profile users , one can predict the most likely block the user belongs to and thus discover the attribute value . Let block Bi denote the set of public profiles that have attribute value ai , and λi,j the probability that a link exists between users in block Bi and users in block Bj . Thus , λi is the vector of all link probabilities between block Bi and each block B1 , , Bm . Similarly , let the probability of a link between a single user v and a block Bj be λ(v)j with λ(v ) being the vector of link probabilities between v and each block . To find the probability that a private profile user belongs to a particular block , the model looks at the maximum similarity between the interaction patterns ( link probability to each block ) of the node in question and the overall interactions between blocks . After finding the most likely block , the sensitive attribute value is predicted . The probability of an attribute value using the blockmodeling attack , BLOCK , is estimated by :
PBLOCK ( vs.ai ; G ) = P ( vsai|VoA , E , λ ) =
1 Z sim(λi , λ(v ) ) where sim( ) can be any vector similarity function and Z is a normalization factor . We compute maximum similarity using the minimum L2 norm . This model is similar to the class distribution relational neighbour classifier described in [ 17 ] when the weight of each directed edge is inversely proportional to the size of the class of the receiving node .
4.3 Privacy attacks using groups
In addition to link or friendship information , social networks offer a very rich structure through the group memberships of users . All individuals in a group are bound together by some observed or hidden interest(s ) that they share , and individuals often belong to more than one group . Thus , groups offer a broad perspective on a person , and it may be possible to use them for sensitive attribute inference . If a user belongs to only one group ( as it is Gia ’s case in the toy example ) , then it is straightforward to infer a label using an aggregate , eg , the mode , of her groupmates’ labels , similar to the friend aggregate model . This problem becomes more complex when there are multiple groups that a user belongs to , and their distributions suggest different values for the sensitive attribute . We propose two models for utilizing the groups in predicting the sensitive attribute – a model which assumes that all groupmates are friends and one which takes groups as classifier features .
431 Groupmate link model ( CLIQUE )
One can think of groupmates as friends to whom users are implicitly linked . In this model , we assume that each group is a clique of friends , thus creating a friendship link between users who belong to at least one group together . This data representation allows us to apply any of the link based models that we have already described . The advantage of this model is that it simplifies the problem to a link based classification problem , which has been studied more thoroughly . One of the disadvantages is that it doesn’t account for the strength of the relationship between two people , eg number of common groups .
432 Group based classification model ( GROUP )
Another approach to dealing with groups is to consider each group as a feature in a classifier . While some groups may be useful in inferring the sensitive attribute , a problem in many of the datasets that we encountered was that users were members of a very large number of groups , so identifying which groups are likely to be predictive is a key . Ideally , we would like to discard group memberships irrelevant to the classification task . For example , the group ” Yucatan ” may be relevant for finding where a person is from , but ” Espresso lovers ” may not be .
To select the relevant groups , one can apply standard feature selection criteria [ 14 ] . If there are N groups , the number of candidate group subsets is 2N , and finding an optimal feature subset is intractable . Similar to pruning words in document classification , one can prune groups based on their properties and evaluate their predictive accuracy . Example group properties include density , size and homogeneity . Smaller groups may be more predictive than large groups , and groups with high homogeneity may be more predictive of the class value . For example , if the classification task is to predict the country that people are from , a cultural group in which 90 % of the people are from the same country is more likely to be predictive of the country class label . One way to measure group homogeneity is by computing the entropy of the group : Entropy(h ) = − Pm i=1 p(ai ) log2 p(ai ) where m is the number of possible node class values and p(ai ) is the fraction of observed members that have class value ai : p(ai ) = |hVai| |h.V |
.
For example , the group ” Yucatan ” has an entropy of 0 because only one attribute value is represented there , therefore its homogeneity is very high . We also consider the confidence in the computed group entropy . One way to measure this is through the percent of public profiles in the group .
The group based classification approach contains three main steps as Algorithm 1 shows . In the first step , the algorithm performs feature selection : it selects the groups that
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy534 are relevant to the node classification task . This can either be done automatically or by a domain expert . Ideally , when the number of groups is high , the feature selection should be automated . For example , the function isRelevant(h ) can return true if the entropy of group h is low . In the second step , the algorithm learns a global function f , eg , trains a classifier , that takes the relevant groups of a node as features and returns the sensitive attribute value . This step uses only the nodes from the observed set whose sensitive attributes are known . Each node v is represented as a binary vector where each dimension corresponds to a unique group : {groupId : isM ember} , va Only memberships to relevant groups are considered and v.a is the class coming from a multinomial distribution which denotes the sensitiveattribute value . In the third step , the classifier returns the predicted sensitive attribute for each private profile . Figure 2(b ) shows a graphical representation of the group based classification model . It shows that there is a dependence between the nodes’ sensitive attributes V.A , the group memberships H and the group attributes T .
Hrelevant = Hrelevant ∪ {h}
Algorithm 1 Group based classification model 1 : Set of relevant groups Hrelevant = ∅ 2 : for each group h ∈ H do 3 : if isRelevant(h ) then 4 : 5 : end if 6 : end for 7 : trainClassif ier(f , Vo , Hrelevant ) 8 : for each sensitive node v ∈ Vs do 9 : 10 : end for v.ˆa = f ( v.Hrelevant )
4.4 Privacy attacks using links and groups
It is possible to construct a method which uses both links and groups to predict the sensitive attributes of users . We use a simple method which combines the flat link and the group based classification models into one : LINK GROUP . This model uses all links and groups as features , thus utilizing the full power of available information . Like LINK and GROUP , LINK GROUP can use any traditional classifier .
5 . EXPERIMENTS used Google Maps API2 to find the latitude and longitude of each location . Then , we mapped the latitude and longitude back to a country location using the reverse geocoding capabilities of GeoNames3 . We discarded the profiles with no resolved country location ( 34% ) , and ones that belonged to a country with less than 10 representatives . The resulting sample contained 9 , 179 users from 55 countries . There were 47 , 754 groups with at least 2 members in the sample .
Facebook is a social network which allows users to communicate with each other , to form undirected friendship links and participate in groups and events . We used a part of the Facebook network , available for research purposes [ 10 ] . It contains all 1 , 598 profiles of first year students in a small college . The dataset does not contain group information but it contains the favorite books , music and movies of the users , and we considered them to be the groups that unify people . 1 , 225 of the users share at least one group with another person , and 1 , 576 users have friendship links . All profiles have gender and 965 have self declared political views . We use six labels of political views very liberal or liberal ( 545 profiles ) , moderate ( 210 ) , conservative or very conservative ( 114 ) , libertarian ( 29 ) , apathetic ( 18 ) , and other ( 49 ) .
Dogster is a website where dog owners can create profiles describing their dogs , as well as participate in group memberships . Members maintain links to friends and family . From a random sample of 10 , 000 Dogster profiles , we removed the ones that do not participate in any groups . The remaining 2 , 632 dogs participate in 1 , 042 groups with at least two members each . Dogs have breeds , and each breed belongs to a broader type set . In our dataset , there were mostly toy dogs ( 749 ) . The other breed categories were working ( 268 ) , herding ( 202 ) , terrier ( 232 ) , sporting ( 308 ) , non sporting ( 225 ) , hound ( 152 ) and mixed dogs ( 506 ) .
The fourth dataset contains publicly available data from the social bookmarking website BibSonomy4 , in which users can tag bookmarks and publications . Although BibSonomy allows users to form friendships and join groups of interest , the dataset did not contain this information . Therefore , we consider each tag placed by a person to be a group to which a user belongs . There are no links between users other than the group affiliations . There are 31 , 715 users with at least one tag , 98.7 % of which posted the same tag with at least one other user . The sensitive attribute is the binary attribute of whether someone is a spammer or not .
We evaluated the effectiveness of each of the proposed models for inferring sensitive attributes in social networks .
5.2 Experimental setup
5.1 Data description
For our evaluation , we studied four diverse online communities : the photo sharing website Flickr , the social network Facebook , Dogster , an online social network for dogs , and the social bookmarking system BibSonomy1 . Table 1 shows properties of the datasets , including the sensitive attributes . Flickr is a photo sharing community in which users can display photographs , create directed friendship links and participate in groups of common interest . Users have the choice of providing personal information on their profiles , such as gender , marital status and location . We collected a snowball sample of 14 , 451 users from it . To resolve their locations ( which users enter manually , as opposed to choosing them from a list ) , we used a two step process . First , we
1At http://wwwflickrcom , http://wwwfacebookcom , http://wwwdogstercom , http://wwwbibsonomyorg/
We ran experiments for each of the presented attack models : 1 ) the baseline model , an attack in the absence of link and group information ( BASIC ) , 2 ) the friend aggregate attack ( AGG ) , 3 ) the collective classification attack ( CC ) , 4 ) the flat link attack ( LINK ) and 5 ) the blockmodeling attack ( BLOCK ) , 6 ) the groupmate link attack ( CLIQUE ) , 7 ) the group based classification attack ( GROUP ) and 8 ) the attack which uses both links and groups ( LINK GROUP ) . For the GROUP model , we present results on both the simpler version which considers all groups and the method in which relevant groups are selected . For the BLOCK model , we present leave one out experiments assuming that complete information is given in the network in order to predict the sensitive attribute of a user . For the AGG , CC , LINK ,
2At http://codegooglecom/apis/ 3At http://wwwgeonamesorg/export/ 4At http://wwwkdecsuni kasselde/ws/rsdc08/
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy535 Table 1 : Properties of the four datasets .
Property Number of users Number of links Number of groups Average in sample degree Average number of groups per user Average group size Largest group size Percent links between nodes with the same label Number of possible labels Sensitive attribute
Flickr
9,179
941,677 47,754
142 162 31
4,527 23.5 %
55
Facebook 1,598/965
86,007/33,597
2,932/2,497
108/70 24/25 10/9
290/221
499%/403 %
2/6
Dogster
BibSonomy
2,632 4,482 1,042
1 1 3
118
7
31,715 N/A
132,554
N/A
98 9
7,182 N/A
2 location gender /polviews breed category spammer
Table 2 : Attack accuracy assuming 50 % private profiles . The successful attacks are shown in bold .
Attack model BASIC Random guess BLOCK AGG CC LINK CLIQUE LINK GROUP GROUP ( 50 % node coverage ) LINK GROUP
27.7 % 1.8 % 8.8 % 28.4 % 28.6 % 56.5 % 46.3 % 63.5 % 83.6 % 64.8 %
56.5 % 16.7 % 6.1 % 57.6 % 56.3 % 58.1 % 57.1 % 45.2 % 46.6 % 57.8 %
Flickr Facebook ( gender ) Facebook ( polviews ) Dogster BibSonomy 92.2 % 50 % 94.0 % 96.0 %
50.0 % 50.0 % 49.1 % 50.2 % 50.4 % 68.6 % 51.8 % 73.4 % 77.2 % 72.5 %
28.6 % 14.3 % 60.2 % 65.5 % 82.0 %
CLIQUE , GROUP and LINK GROUP models , we split the data into test and training by randomly assigning each profile to be private with a probability n % . For LINK , GROUP and LINK GROUP , we used an implementation of SVM for multi value classification [ 23 ] .
Groups were marked as relevant to the classification task either based on maximum size cutoff , maximum entropy cutoff and/or minimum percent of public profiles in the group . For each experiment , we measure accuracy , node coverage and group coverage . Accuracy is the correct classification rate , node coverage is the portion of private profiles for which we can predict the sensitive attribute , and group coverage is the portion of groups used for classification . The reported results are the averages over 5 trials for each set of parameters . We consider an attack to be successful if its average accuracy minus its standard deviation was larger than the baseline accuracy plus its standard deviation .
5.3 Sensitive attribute inference results
Table 2 provides a summary of the results , assuming 50 % private profiles . We see a wide variation in the performance of the different methods . The line with 50 % node coverage shows the accuracy for half of the private profile users who participate in a group with at least one other user . We also present experiments for varying % of private profiles ( Figure 3(d ) and Figure 5 ) .
531 Flickr
Link based attacks . Not surprisingly , in the absence of link and group information , our baseline achieved a relatively low accuracy ( 277 % ) However , surprisingly , the link based methods AGG and CC also performed quite badly . AGG ’s accuracy was 28.4 % , predicting that most users were from the United States . The iterative collective classification attack , CC , performed slightly , but not significantly , better ( 286 % ) Clearly , Flickr users do not form friendships based on their country of origin and country attribute in Flickr is not autocorrelated ( only 23 % of the links are between users from the same country ) . Another possible explanation is that the class had a very skewed distribution which persisted in friendship circles . The blockmodeling attack , BLOCK , performed worse , with only 8.8 % accuracy , showing that users from a particular country did not form a natural block to explain their linking patterns . The only successful link based attack was the ” flattened ” link model , LINK . With simple binary features , it achieved an accuracy of 565 % We performed experiments based on both inlinks and outlinks , as well as ignoring the direction of the links . The results were slightly better using undirected links , and these are the results we report .
From a privacy perspective , the results from the linkbased models are actually positive , showing that in this dataset , exposing the friendship links is not a serious threat to privacy for the studied attribute . The only model which performed well , LINK , shows that if an adversary tries to predict private attributes of users using it , then he has almost a 50 50 chance of being wrong .
Group based attacks . Next , we evaluate the attacks which used groups . For the CLIQUE model , we converted the groupmate relationships into friendship relationships . This led to an extremely high densification of the network . From an average of 142 friends per user , the average node degree became 7 , 239 ( out of maximum possible 9 , 178 ) . Since the CLIQUE model can use any of the link based models , we chose to use it with the LINK model because it performed best from the link based models . This CLIQUELINK model has an accuracy of 46.3 % and due to the lack of sparsity , its training took much longer time than any of the other approaches .
The group based classification results were more promising . We evaluated our methods under a wide range of conditions , and we report on the ones that provided more insight in terms of high accuracy and node coverage . Figure 3(a ) shows that na¨ıvely running GROUP on all group
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy536 Figure 3 : GROUP prediction accuracy on Flickr with 50 % private profiles and relevant groups chosen based on ( a ) varying size , ( b ) varying entropy , and ( c ) a varying minimum requirement for the number of public profiles per group ( maximum entropy cutoff at 05 ) Accuracy for various percent of public profiles in the network ( d ) : the less public profiles , the worse the accuracy and therefore , the better the privacy of users .
For privacy purposes , this is a strong result , and it means that groups can help an adversary predict the sensitive attribute for half of the users with private profiles with a high accuracy . Figure 3(d ) shows that the more the private profiles in the network , the worse the accuracy . However , even in the case of mostly private profiles , the GROUP attack is still successful ( 634 % ) The reported results are for the case when the minimum portion of public profiles per group is equal to the portion in the overall network and the cutoff for the maximum group entropy is at 05
Looking at the most and least relevant groups also provides interesting insights . The most heterogeneous group that our method found is ” worldwidewondering a travel atlas . ” As its name suggests , it pertains to users from different countries and using it to predict someone ’s country seems useless . Some of the larger homogeneous groups include ” Beautiful NC , ” ” Disegni e scritte sui muri ” and ” *Nederland belicht* ” . Other homogeneous groups were related to country but not in such an obvious manner . For example , one of them has the nondescript name ” ::PONX : : ” which turned out to be the title of a Mexican magazine . For one user we looked at , this group helped us determine that although he claims to be from all over the world , he is most likely from Mexico .
Mixed model . The model which uses both links and groups as features , LINK GROUP , did not perform statistically different from the GROUP model ( 648 % ) This showed that adding the links to the GROUP model did not lead to an additional benefit .
Insights on privacy preservation . Since including only lowentropy groups significantly boosts the success of the group the Figure 4 : Assuming 50 % public profiles , GROUP accuracy drops significantly if Flickr users with private profiles do not join low entropy groups . memberships , the prediction accuracy was 635 % However , as larger groups are excluded , the accuracy improves even further ( 721 % ) This shows that medium to small sized groups are more informative . Choosing the relevant groups based solely on their entropy shows even better results ( Figure 3(b) ) . Using the groups with entropy lower than 0.5 resulted in the best accuracy . We also pruned groups based on varying percentages of public profiles per group which raised the accuracy even further ( Figure 3(c) ) . Other advantages of choosing relevant groups were that it reduced the group space by 71.2 % and that SVM training time was much shorter . The disadvantage is that as we prune groups , some of the users do not belong to any of the chosen groups , thus the node coverage decreases : 51 % of the private profile attributes were predicted with 83.6 % accuracy .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy537 Figure 5 : GROUP prediction accuracy on ( a ) Dogster and ( b ) BibSonomy . based attack , we conjectured that not participating in lowentropy groups helps people preserve their privacy better . Figure 4 shows that if users with private profiles do not join low entropy groups , then GROUP is no longer successful .
532 Facebook
We performed the same experiments for Facebook as for Flickr but we omit the figures due to space constraints . We provide a summary of the results here .
Link based attacks . In predicting gender , we found that while AGG , CC and BLOCK performed similarly to the baseline , LINK ’s accuracy varied between 65.3 % and 735 % In predicting the political views , the link based methods performed similarly to the baseline as Table 2 shows . LINK ’s average accuracy was not significantly different from the rest . We also performed binary classification to predict whether someone is liberal or not and the results were similar . The best performing method was LINK with 61.8 % accuracy . From privacy perspective , this result means that while it is easy to predict gender , it is hard to predict the political views of Facebook users based on their friendships . Group based attacks . The GROUP attack was successful in predicting gender ( 73.4 % ) when using all groups . Selecting groups that have at least 50 % public profiles per group raised the accuracy by 4 % but dropped the node coverage by a half . Predicting political views with GROUP was not successful ( 45.2% ) ; some possible explanations are that the groups we considered are not real social groups and that books , movies and music taste of first year college students may not be related to their political views . The relatively low number of groups may also have had an effect .
Mixed model . Again , LINK GROUP did not perform statistically different from the other best performing models ( 72.5 % for gender , 57.8 % for political views ) . different options for the maximum group entropy required , and here , we report on the results for 05 The accuracy increased significantly as the number of public profiles in the network increased with one exception : the accuracies for 70 % and 90 % public profiles did not have a statistically significant difference . A group named ” All Fur Fun ” was the least homogeneous of all groups , ie , had the highest group entropy of 27 The online profile of the group shows that this is a group that invites all dogs to party together , so it is not surprising that dogs of many different breeds join .
534 BibSonomy
Group based attacks . We used the BibSonomy data to see whether the group based classification approach can help in predicting whether someone is a spammer or not . There is a large class skew in the data : most of the labeled user profiles are spammer profiles and the baseline accuracy is 922 % Using all groups when 50 % of the profiles are public leads to a statistically significant improvement in the accuracy ( 94 % ) and has a very good node coverage ( 98.5% ) ; this covers almost all users with tags that at least one other user uses ( 987 % ) The accuracy results for BibSonomy are presented in Figure 5(b ) . We explored different options for the minimum entropy required , and we report on the results for it being 0 , ie , only completely homogeneous groups were chosen . As in the other results , the coverage gets lower when the most homogeneous groups are chosen ( which in the spam case is actually undesirable ) . Precision was 99.9100 % in all group based classification cases , meaning that virtually all predicted spammers were such , whereas in the baseline case , it is 922 % The results also suggest that if more profiles were labeled , then more covered spammers would be caught . Some of the homogeneous tags with many taggers include ” mortgage ” and ” refinance . ”
533 Dogster
6 . RELATED WORK
Link based attacks . Due to the fact that this was a random rather than a snowball sample , there were only 432 nodes with links , and link based methods are at an unfair disadvantage , so we do not report their results here .
Group based attacks . The baseline accuracy was 286 % CLIQUE LINK ’s accuracy was significantly higher ( 60.2% ) , as was GROUP ’s accuracy ( 65.5 % ) when there were 50 % public profiles . Pruning groups based on entropy led to even higher accuracy ( 88.9 % ) but had lower node coverage ( 149 % ) Figure 5(a ) shows the accuracy and node coverage for various private profile percentage assumptions . We tried
To position our work , here , we present a brief overview of related work in privacy and learning in network data .
6.1 Privacy
According to Li et . al . [ 11 ] , there are two types of privacy attacks in data : identity disclosure and attribute disclosure , and identity disclosure often leads to attribute disclosure . Identity disclosure occurs when the adversary is able to determine the mapping from a record to a specific real world entity ( eg an individual ) . Attribute disclosure occurs when an adversary is able to determine the value of a user at
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy538 tribute that the user intended to stay private . We are interested in attribute disclosure in online social networks using the public profiles , friendship links and group memberships .
The privacy literature recognizes two types of privacy mech anisms : interactive and non interactive [ 6 ] . In the interactive mechanism , an adversary poses queries to a data base and the database provider gives noisy answers . In the noninteractive setting , a data provider releases an anonym ized version of the database to meet privacy concerns . Even though our work is closer to the non interactive setting , the goal of our data provider is not to anonymize a dataset but to ensure that users’ private data remains private and cannot be inferred using links , groups and public profiles .
Until recently , the literature on anonymization considered only single table data , in which the rows represent iid records , and the columns represent record attributes [ 1 , 5 , 11 , 16 , 22 ] . Real world data is often relational , and records may be related to one another or to records from other tables . Relational data poses new challenges to preserving the privacy of individuals [ 3 , 8 , 15 , 18 , 19 , 25 ] . For example , in graph data , there is a third type of disclosure attack : link re identification [ 25 ] . Link re identification is the problem of inferring that two entities participate in a particular type of sensitive relationship or communication . If one anonymizes the data na¨ıvely by removing personal attributes and replacing them with a random identifier , it still is possible to identify individuals based on their subgraph structure [ 3 , 8 , 15 ] . It is also possible to link records in anonymized data to external relational data sources to disclose attribute values [ 18 ] . Our work is complementary in that we assume that the identities of people are known but the value of the sensitive attribute of some of them is not directly available . We propose several simple models for inferring the hidden sensitive attributes using the observed attributes , link and group information in a single data source . It is important to be aware of the different possible privacy attacks in order to guide anonymization techniques .
He et al . [ 9 ] study the use of friendship links in predicting private attributes in a LiveJournal sample . They create synthetic attribute values in the sample , assuming autocorrelation , and show how to use a Bayesian network in predicting sensitive attributes . Lindamood et al . [ 13 ] provide another study on a large Facebook sample and show how sensitive attributes can be predicted using other user attributes and friendship links . In contrast , we consider a variety of attacks assuming a richer network structure with social groups , and posit that private profile attributes are not available . We also test the attacks on four networks with real attributes , showing that autocorrelation is not as ubiquitous as expected .
6.2 Learning in network data
In the last decade , there has been a growing interest in supervised classification that relies not only on the object attributes but also on the attributes of the objects it is linked to , some of which may be unobserved [ 7 ] . Link based classification breaks the assumption that data comprises of iid instances and it can take advantage of autocorrelation , the property that makes the classes of linked objects correlated with each other . For example , political affiliations of friends tend to be similar , students tend to be friends with other students , etc . A comprehensive review of collective classification can be found in the work by Sen et al . [ 21 ] .
The goal of unsupervised learning or clustering is to group objects together based on their similarity . In social networks , clusters can be found based on attribute and/or structural information . For example , Neville and Jensen [ 20 ] describe how autocorrelation in relational data is sometimes caused by the presence of such hidden clusters or groups in the data which influence the attributes of the group members . They use a spectral clustering method based on node links in the data to discover groups , and then use the groups to classify the nodes . Airoldi et al . [ 2 ] study mixed membership clustering of relational data to predict protein function . It is assumed that the cluster assignment is related to the node attribute value in question .
In contrast to these approaches , we are interested in classifying nodes when group membership is explicitly given and only a subset of the groups is related to the node attribute in question . This is different from the case where groups need to be detected because explicit groups can represent a latent common interest that neither attribute nor structural information contains . We propose a relational classification method that makes use of groups with member set overlaps , and it distinguishes groups that are relevant to classification based on group features such as size and homogeneity .
7 . DISCUSSION
Privacy . Our work shows that groups can leak a significant amount of information and not joining homogeneous groups preserves privacy better . People who are concerned about their privacy should consider properties of the groups they join , and social network providers should warn their users of the privacy breaches associated with joining groups . Obviously , in dynamically evolving environments , it is harder to assess whether a group will remain diverse as more people join and leave it . Another privacy aspect is the ability to join public groups but display group memberships only to friends . Currently , neither Facebook nor Flickr allow group memberships to be private and this is a desirable solution to the problem we have discussed .
Surprisingly , link based methods did not perform as well as we expected . This suggests that breaking privacy in social networks with mixed private and public profiles is not necessarily straightforward , and using friends in classifying people has to be treated with care . We also conjecture that this depends on the dataset . For example , while link based methods were not very successful in predicting the location of users in Flickr , they may work well in LiveJournal ; for example , a study by Liben Nowell et al . [ 12 ] showed that most of the friendship links in LiveJournal are related to geographical proximity . Another important point to consider is the nature of the sensitive attribute we are trying to predict . For example , predicting someone ’s political views may be a very hard task in general . Recent research by Baldassarri et . al . [ 4 ] shows that most Americans are neither consistently liberal nor conservative , and thus labeling a person as one or the other is inappropriate .
In some cases , the assumption that unpublished private attributes can be predicted from those made public may not hold . This happens when the attribute distribution in private profiles is very different from the one in public profiles . An extreme example is a disease attribute which shows values for common diseases such as Flu , Fever , etc , in public profiles , whereas more sensitive values such as HIV appear only in private profiles . In a similar example , young people
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy539 tend to make their age public , and older ones tend to keep it secret . We plan to address this issue in future work .
Data anonymization . The challenge of anonymizing graph data lies in understanding the rich dependencies in the data and removing sensitive information which can be inferred by direct or indirect means . Here , we show attribute disclosure attacks in data which is meant to be partially private . Our results suggest that a data provider should consider removing groups that are homogeneous in respect to sensitive attributes before releasing an anonymized dataset in the public domain . Our privacy attacks are also meant to show that more sophisticated anonymization techniques are necessary . Data mining . We show that it is possible to predict the attributes of some users with hidden profiles and create better statistics of the attribute ’s overall distribution . For example , if a marketing company can predict the gender and location of users with hidden profiles , it can improve its targeted marketing . As groups with higher entropy are added , the uncertainty associated with the attribute prediction increases , and it becomes harder to utilize the existence of diverse groups for sensitive attribute inference .
Remaining research questions . There are a number of interesting questions that remain to be answered : What are the properties that make a social network vulnerable to a group based attack ? Are profiles on social media websites more or less vulnerable than ones on a purely networking website ? What are the specific privacy guidelines that a social network website provider should follow to ensure its users are protected against unintended privacy leaks ? Do users with private profiles have group membership patterns that are different and more privacy preserving from publicprofile members ?
8 . CONCLUSION
While having a private profile is a good idea for the privacyconcerned users , their links to other people and affiliations with public groups pose a threat to their privacy . In this work , we showed how one can exploit a social network with mixed profiles to predict the sensitive attributes of users . Using group information , we were able to discover the sensitive attribute values of some users with surprisingly high accuracy on four real world social media datasets . We hope that these results will raise the privacy awareness of social media users and will motivate social media websites to enable greater control over release of information and to help their users understand the potential for leaking information .
9 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to thank Alan Mislove for providing the code for extracting data from Flickr , Jen Neville for a useful discussion on autocorrelation , Michael Hay for valuable feedback on an initial draft of this paper , and Galileo Namata for help with collective classification . This work was in part supported by NSF under Grant No0746930
10 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G . Aggarwal , T . Feder , K . Kenthapadi , R . Motwani ,
R . Panigrahy , D . Thomas , and A . Zhu . Approximation algorithms for k anonimity . JPT , Nov . 2005 . [ 2 ] E . Airoldi , D . Blei , S . Fienberg , and E . Xing .
Mixed membership stochastic blockmodels . JMLR , 9:1981–2014 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] L . Backstrom , C . Dwork , and J . Kleinberg . Wherefore art thou r3579x : anonymized social networks , hidden patterns , and struct . steganography . In WWW , 2007 .
[ 4 ] D . Baldassarri and A . Gelman . Partisans without constraint : Political polarization and trends in american public opinion . American Journal of Sociology , 114(2):408–446 , September 2008 .
[ 5 ] R . Bayardo and R . Agrawal . Data privacy through optimal k anonymization . In ICDE , April 2005 . [ 6 ] C . Dwork . Differential privacy . In ICALP , 2006 . [ 7 ] L . Getoor and B . Taskar , editors . Introduction to statistical relational learning . MIT Press , 2007 . [ 8 ] M . Hay , G . Miklau , D . Jensen , and D . Towsley .
Resisting structural identification in anonymized social networks . In VLDB , August 2008 .
[ 9 ] J . He , W . Chu , and Z . Liu . Inferring privacy information from social networks . In ISI , 2006 .
[ 10 ] K . Lewis , J . Kaufman , M . Gonzalez , A . Wimmer , and
N . Christakis . Tastes , ties , and time . hdl:19021/11827
[ 11 ] N . Li , T . Li , and S . Venkatasubramanian . t closeness :
Privacy beyond k anon . and l diversity . In ICDE , 2007 .
[ 12 ] D . Liben Nowell , J . Novak , R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , and A . Tomkins . Geographic routing in social networks . PNAS , 102(33):11623–11628 , August 2005 .
[ 13 ] J . Lindamood , R . Heatherly , M . Kantarcioglu , and
B . Thuraisingham . Inferring private information using social network data . In WWW Poster , 2009 .
[ 14 ] H . Liu and L . Yu . Toward integrating feature selection algorithms for classification and clustering . TKDE , 17(4):491–502 , April 2005 .
[ 15 ] K . Liu and E . Terzi . Towards identity anonymization on graphs . In SIGMOD , 2008 .
[ 16 ] A . Machanavajjhala , J . Gehrke , D . Kifer , and
M . Venkitasubramaniam . l diversity : Privacy beyond k anonymity . In ICDE , 2006 .
[ 17 ] S . Macskassy and F . Provost . Classification in networked data : A toolkit and a univariate case study . JMLR , 8:935–983 , May 2007 .
[ 18 ] A . Narayanan and V . Shmatikov . Robust de anonymization of large sparse datasets . S&P , 2008 .
[ 19 ] M . E . Nergiz and C . Clifton . Multirelational k anonymity . In ICDE , April 2007 .
[ 20 ] J . Neville and D . Jensen . Leveraging relational autocorrelation with latent group models . In ICDM , 2005 .
[ 21 ] P . Sen , G . M . Namata , M . Bilgic , L . Getoor , B . Gallagher , and T . Eliassi Rad . Collective classification in network data . Technical Report CS TR 4905 , Univ . of Maryland , 2008 .
[ 22 ] L . Sweeney . Achieving k anonymity privacy protection using generalization and suppression . IJU , 10(5 ) , 2002 .
[ 23 ] I . Tsochantaridis , T . Hofmann , T . Joachims , and
Y . Altun . Support vector learning for interdependent and structured output spaces . ICML , 2004 .
[ 24 ] Y . Wang and G . Wong . Stochastic blockmodels for directed graphs . JASA , 1987 .
[ 25 ] E . Zheleva and L . Getoor . Preserving the privacy of sensitive relationships in graph data . PinKDD , 2007 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Track : Security and Privacy / Session : Web Privacy540
