Securely Implementing Open Geospatial Consortium Web
Service Interface Standards in Oracle Spatial
Ning An , Raja Chatterjee , Mike Horhammer , Siva Ravada
Oracle Corporation
One Oracle Drive , Nashua , NH , USA
{ning.an , raja.chatterjee , mike.horhammer , siva.ravada} @oracle.com
ABSTRACT In this paper , we briefly describe the implementation of various Open Geospatial Consortium Web Service Interface Standards in Oracle Spatial 11g . We highlight how we utilize Oracle ’s implementation of OASIS Web Services Security ( WSS ) to provide a robust security framework for these OGC Web Services . We also discuss our future direction in supporting OGC Web Service Interface Standards .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services – Web based services . General Terms : Standardization , Design , Security . Keywords : OGC Web Service Interface Standards , Geospatial , Oracle Spatial , Security .
1 . INTRODUCTION The Open Geospatial Consortium ( OGC ) Web Service Interface Standards are developed to create self contained , standards based , interoperable geospatial web services that can be published , discovered and invoked across the web . Implementing these services and enabling them to integrate with non spatial web services will help bring the value of geospatial applications to a much broader community . “ In repeated surveys , IDC has found that Oracle is used in 80 90 % of medium sized and information systems . ” [ 7 ] As a primary Spatial Information Management Software vendor , Oracle plays an important role to help drive the adoption of the OGC Web Service standards . In Oracle 11g , we have implemented following Open Geospatial Consortium ( OGC ) Web Service Interface Standards : Web Feature Service Interface Standard ( WFS)[5 ] , Catalogue Services Interface Standard ( CS W ) [ 2 ] , Open Location Services Interface Standard ( OpenLS)[3 ] , and Web Map Service Interface Standard ( WMS ) [ 6 ] . In the following sections , we will describe our implementation and discuss how to leverage the underlying Oracle security framework to provide security for OGC Web Services . large enterprise spatial
2 . ORACLE SPATIAL WEB SERVICES We implement OGC Web Services in Oracle Fusion Middleware as shown in Figure 1 . Since this implementation is J2EE based and built with standards based technologies , it can be deployed to other application servers .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
In addition to the mandated XML interfaces , Oracle Spatial WFS , Oracle Spatial CSW and Oracle Spatial OpenLS also support SOAP interfaces . To improve performance , Oracle Spatial WFS and Oracle Spatial CSW also implement caching mechanism to support retrieving records from a single query across different web requests . Below , we describe each of supported OGC Web Services in Oracle Spatial . Due to space limits , we will emphasize Oracle Spatial WFS support to illustrate our unique implementation .
Figure 1 . UML Deployment Diagram of Oracle Spatial Web
Services Framework
2.1 Oracle Spatial WFS The OGC WFS provides interfaces for executing data manipulation operations on geographic features over HTTP in a distributed computing environment . Oracle Spatial WFS supports transactional WFS operations . As Web connections are inherently stateless , the semantics of serialized transactions are not preserved . One way to ensure serializability is to use locks to control data access . Defining LockFeature and GetFeatureWithLock , OGC WFS provides a long term feature locking mechanism transactions ( insert/update/delete instances ) . Oracle Spatial WFS implements a locking module in Oracle Fusion Middleware on top to ensure consistency of feature
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091179 CSW implementation of the PL/SQL Long Transaction Locking package . This module will enable Oracle Database to hold exclusive update locks on rows of a table for a certain specified period of time across database sessions . Oracle Spatial WFS supports both relational and document based feature types : 1 ) relational feature types expose the content of database tables as feature instances . They are well suited for those who use Oracle Spatial to manage their geospatial data and use Oracle Database to manage other business data ; 2 ) document based feature types expose XML schema based XML content as feature instances . Document based feature types are well suited for those who use XML as their main data source and who might not currently use Oracle Spatial with such data . For this data , the Spatial WFS implementation extracts the geometry components and stores them using the SDO_GEOMETRY type ; it stores the remaining XML components in Oracle XDB and builds appropriate XMLIndex indexes for them . 2.2 Oracle Spatial CSW OGC CSW provides interfaces for publishing and accessing digital catalogues of metadata for geospatial data , services , and related resource information using XML over HTTP in a distributed computing environment . The Oracle supports Spatial brief/summary/full output views of record instances . It also supports custom views of record instances by dynamically generating and applying XSL transformations to response records based on the CSW query specification . 2.3 Oracle Spatial OpenLS OGC OpenLS Services include the Location Utility Service , Presentation Service , Route Service , Directory Service , and Gateway Service . The first four are implemented using the following Oracle Spatial components , respectively : Oracle Geocoder , Oracle MapViewer , Oracle Router , and Oracle Business Directory . Oracle Spatial OpenLS does not currently support the OGC OpenLS Gateway Service ( mobile positioning ) . 2.4 Oracle Spatial WMS Oracle MapViewer is preconfigured to run as a WMS service , and it supports the rendering of data delivered using the OGC WMS protocol . Internally , MapViewer translates all incoming WMS requests into proper XML requests to the MapViewer server . MapViewer supports GetMap , GetFeatureInfo , and GetCapabilities requests as defined by the OGC . 3 . SECURITY FRAMEWORK Since OGC Web Services are designed for an open environment , security is always a major concern . When accessing Oracle Spatial OGC Web Services , a user can take full advantage of the underlying security framework provided by Oracle Fusion Middleware and Oracle Database . We utilize Oracle Fusion Middleware ’s implementation of WSS [ 1 ] to ensure message transport security and provide authentication and authorization at the middle tier . Virtual Private Database functionality [ 8 ] further offers security and privacy protection in Oracle Database . Figure 2 illustrates how an OGC WS request is executed securely .
Figure 2 . UML Sequence Diagram for Securely Processing an
OGC WS Request
4 . FUTURE WORK In the near future , we will focus on improving the usability of our implementation to meet real customer needs . We also plan to support more OGC Web Service Interface standards , such as WCS [ 4 ] . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] OASIS Web Services Security . http://www.oasis openorg/committees/tc_homephp?wg_abbrev=wss
[ 2 ] OpenGIS® Catalogue Services Interface Standard ( CSW ) . http://wwwopengeospatialorg/standards/cat
[ 3 ] OpenGIS® Open Location Services Interface Standard ( OpenLS ) . http://wwwopengeospatialorg/standards/ols
[ 4 ] OpenGIS® Web Coverage Service Interface Standard ( WCS ) . http://wwwopengeospatialorg/standards/wcs
[ 5 ] OpenGIS® Web Feature Service Interface Standard ( WFS ) . http://wwwopengeospatialorg/standards/wfs
[ 6 ] OpenGIS® Web Map Service Interface Standard ( WMS ) . http://wwwopengeospatialorg/standards/wms
[ 7 ] Sonnen , D . and Vesset D . Worldwide Spatial Information
Management Software 2008 2012 Forecast and 2007 Vendor Shares , International Data Corporation ( IDC ) , Market Analysis , Doc# 213930 , September 2008 .
[ 8 ] Virtual Private Database . Oracle® Label Security
Administrator ’s Guide .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091180
