Content Hole Search in Community type Content
Akiyo Nadamoto Konan University
Okamoto , Higashinada ku ,
Kobe , Japan nadamoto@konan uacjp
Eiji Aramaki
The University of Tokyo
Hongou 7–3–1 , Bunkyo ku ,
Tokyo , Japan eijiaramaki@gmailcom
Takeshi Abekawa The University of Tokyo
Graduate School of Education Hongou 7–3–1 , Bunkyo ku ,
Tokyo , Japan abekawa@p.u tokyoacjp
Yohei Murakami National Institute of
Information and
Communications Technology
Hikaridai 3–5 , Seika cho , Soraku gun,Kyoto , Japan yohei@nictgojp
ABSTRACT In community type content such as blogs and SNSs , we call the user ’s unawareness of information as a ” content hole ” and the search for this information as a ” content hole search . ” A content hole search differs from similarity searching and has a variety of types . In this paper , we propose different types of content holes and define each type . We also propose an analysis of dialogue related to community type content and introduce content hole search by using Wikipedia as an example .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Algorithms
Figure 1 : Types of Content Holes
Keywords Content Hole Search , Community , SNS , Blog
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Community type content such as blogs and SNSs are representative examples of Web 20 In the community type content , users sometimes enter heated discussions and their viewpoints become narrow . The community concentrates on one thing and loses information about their theme . In this case , we believe that taking notice of a lack of awareness is not only convenient for users but also for communities . On the other hand , today ’s web search techniques are primarily similarity searches that search for the information required by the user . When Web 2.0 became popular , users’ viewpoints became increasingly narrow . Indeed , it is our contention that a new search technique that effectively increases users’ content knowledge in relation to Web 2.0 is required . We need a next generation search engine that will
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . search for additional information regarding a topic that users might not know . We call this lack of information as ” content hole . ” In this paper , we have attempted to extract and represent content holes from the discussion histories on SNSs and in blogs .
A content hole search concentrates on differences , while ordinary information retrieval is generally based on similarities . We have compiled a number of images for the difference search , and we define 7 kinds of content holes[1 ] . In addition , all content hole searches use the same dialogue analysis logic . In this paper , we propose the dialogue analysis of community type content ; the first step in finding a content hole is to extract an ” unexpected content hole ” by using Wikipedia .
2 . CONCEPT OF CONTENT HOLE
The purpose of a content hole is to present information that is lacking within a given community . There are many kinds of content holes . Figure 1 shows an image of the content hole proposed in this paper . The community type content consists of a Theme T and topic Subn ( n = 1 ; : : : ; n ) . T is a theme targeted by the community . Subn consists of a set of user comments Ci ( i = 1 ; : : : ; n ) that have the same
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091223 topic as the theme . A theme consists of multiple topics , and a topic consists of one or more comments . We introduce our content hole by using the case of a topic consisting of a single comment in Figure 1 . We have proposed seven content holes and have divided them into two kinds . One kind of content hole is similar to a community topic ( Inside Content Holes , Surrounding Content Holes , Detail Content Holes , and Nearest Content Holes ) and the other differs from a community topic ( Unexpected Content Holes , Opposite Impression ( Reputation ) Content Holes , and Entirely Different Content Holes ) .
3 . ANALYSIS OF THE DIALOGUE
Community type content consists of a number of threads , with multiple dialogues within each thread . We have analyzed the threads and extracted a set of dialogues . We propose two types of relevant dialogues in a thread . 3.1 Content relevance
Content relevance refers to the similarity between two comments . For example , consider the following sentences : ” Which MP3 player is light and small ? ” and ” An IPod is extremely light and small . ” We deduced that these sentences were probably related because the words ” light ” and ” small ” are present in both sentences . To calculate the content relevance , we use a co occurrence based similarity [ 2 ] . 3.2 Function relevance
In the following case , there is little overlap of words between the two sentences ; the relationship between these sentences comes in the form of a question and an answer . The following is an example of one such question and answer combination : ” Why does my iPod Nano occasionally stop ? ” and ” Because of the battery display . ” To capture the functional relevance , we propose the following new measure : First , we built 3 databases using a set of comment pairs ( P s and Qs ) : DB A : a database of n gram occurrences in P s . DB B : a database of n gram occurrences in Qs . DB C : a database of possible combinations of n : m gram pair ( possible n grams in P : possible m grams in Q ) occurrences ( 1 n 3 ; 1 m 3 , ) . For example , given the combination of P ” How about an iPod ” and Q ” Good idea , ” we obtained the n : m grams . We define the functional relevance(RELf ( P ; Q ) ) using the following databases as follows :
RELf ( P ; Q ) = X max X where NP is a set of n grams in P , NQ is a set of n grams in Q , and CP M I is defined as follows :
CP M I(p ; q )
8< : 0
= log
Hc(p\q )
M
Ha(p )
Hb(q )
M
M if Hc(p \ q ) c ; otherwise ;
( 2 )
Figure 2 : Prototype System
4 . A CONTENT HOLE SEARCH
In this paper , the first step in finding a content hole is to extract an Unexpected Content Hole by using Wikipedia ’s table of contents . Wikipedia is written by the general public and thus contains multiple perspectives as well as colloquialisms . We extracted the Unexpected Content Hole using Wikipedia because it contains content that is written from multiple perspectives . We used Wikipedia ’s table of contents as a structure of Wikipedia . In particular , we compared each dialogue set in a thread with each passage in the table of contents , as shown in Figure 2(a ) . First , we calculated the morphological analysis and computed the weight of all nouns in each passage by using T F=IDF . We then computed the similarity between each dialogue set and each passage in the table of contents by using a cosine vector . The passage from Wikipedia ’s table of contents is smaller than the threshold of the content hole . Figure 2(b ) shows the interface of the prototype system . In this system , the user inputs the keyword , and the system searches for communities that discuss the keyword . The user then selects the community , and the system calculates and presents that community ’s content hole in red characters in the left hand window .
We proposed a content hole search for community type content . We also proposed an analysis method for dialogue within the various threads in a community . Furthermore , we describe a manner in which a content hole search can be performed using Wikipedia .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A Nadamoto , E Aramaki,et . al . , Yohei Murakami ,
” Searching for Important but Neglected Content from Community type content ” , SITIS , pp.161–168 , 2008
[ 2 ] Danushka Bollegala , et . al . , ” Measuring Semantic
Similarity between Words Using Web Search Engines ” , Proceedings of 16th International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 2007 ) , pp.757 766 , 2007 p2NP q2NQ
CP M I(p ; q ) ;
( 1 )
5 . CONCLUSION where Ha(p ) is the number of occurrences of n gram p in DBA , Hb(q ) is the number of occurrences of n gram q in DB B , and Hc(p \ q ) is the number of occurrences of the n gram pair p and q in DB C . We filtered out queries that returned less than a threshold limit of c number of documents to avoid small number noise . M is the number of comment pairs .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091224
