Visualization of Geo annotated Pictures in Mobile Phones
Roberto Manca
Francesco Massidda
Davide Carboni
Freelance Via Turati 85
Quartu Sant'elena ( CA ) , Italy
Zetesis Srl
Parco Tecnologico , Ed . 2
CRS4
Parco Tecnologico , Ed . 1
Loc . Pixina Manna , Pula ( CA ) , Italy
Loc . Pixina Manna , Pula ( CA ) , Italy
+39 3403006702
+39 070 9243 2615 manca_roberto@tiscali.it fmassidda@dieeunicait
+39 070 9250303 dcarboni@crs4.it
ABSTRACT In this work , a novel mobile browser for geo referenced pictures is introduced and described . We use the term browser to denote a system aimed at browsing pictures selected from a large set like Internet photo sharing services . The criteria to filter a subset of pictures to browse are three : the user's actual position , the user's actual heading , and the user's preferences . In this work we only focus on the first two criteria leaving the integration of user's preferences for future developments . Categories and Subject Descriptors H52 User Interfaces ( D22 , H12 , I36 ) Interaction styles ( eg , commands , menus , forms , direct manipulation )
General Terms Design , Experimentation .
Keywords Mobile Photo Browsing , GPS , Compass , Arduino , Geo Browsing , Maps
1.INTRODUCTION Pictures are one of the most interesting media for geo annotations and the technologies available on board of commonly used mobile phones are an opportunity to exploit , we present our experiments with geo annotated pictures , sensors and visualization . Furthermore , the release of worldwide known programming tools like the Google Maps API has fostered the development of a lot of geographical web applications also called mashups based on interactive maps and user generated content and , thanks to the availability of new devices that integrate camera , GPS and network , the number of geo referenced images shared in public web sites is growing all over the world with fast pace [ 1 ] : geotagged images stored in Flickr were about 16 000 in the interval [ October 2003 – October 2004 ] , about 170 000 in [ October 2005 – October 2006 ] and 350 000 in [ July 2006 – July 2007 ] . The same query today shows more than 1 million of photo resources . These numbers allow to experiment worldwide and not only in a limited region with few pictures .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
This work introduces the prototype of a location based browser which selects and shows a set of pictures according not only to the actual user position but also to the actual user heading . The issues both from a technical point of view and from a usage point of view will be discussed . The described functionalities are obtained using an external magnetic sensor connected to the mobile phone via Bluetooth .
2.ARCHITECTURE OF THE SYSTEM To provide a view of surrounding points of interest based both on heading and position , the proposed system must of course connect with the GPS network . GPS is a system based on trilateration and its main objective is to provide position and not to provide heading . Nevertheless , if a GPS sensor is moving fast enough , it is possible to sample two positions after a short time interval , ie one second , and to determine the heading . Unfortunately this approach can only work for airborne , marine , and car/truck transportation but it is not viable for pedestrian mobility .
Fig 1 : High level architecture of the LBB system
Using acceleration sensors to determine heading is a theoretical solution : the double integral of acceleration gives the space associated with a movement . This computation is not practicable on a mobile terminal and the implementation must take into account a model for user movements in order to manage the problem like a pattern recognition problem As alternative approach , the same functionalities are obtained using an external magnetic sensor connected to the mobile phone via Bluetooth . Also in this case we will analyze the technical issues arose during the design and the implementation of a Bluetooth compass and we will present some preliminary results in terms of user's satisfaction .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091181 3.IMPLEMENTATION The Location Based Browser is a novel way to visualize geoannotated images while the user is moving . This work share some points in common with [ 2 ] but by virtue of different technical choices and recent technology advancements our prototype is fully functional for both GPS position and heading sensing . Once the application is started five photos are shown in the display . The 5 pictures are selected in function of the actual GPS position and the current heading of the user . To test the system without a permanent connection to the Internet , a large collection of images is preloaded on the phone into a local database . For each image are also saved latitude , longitude , URL of the resource , and description . The direction is provided by an handmade wearable compass composed by a Arduino(tm ) Bluetooth board and on a sensor which senses the magnetic field according to the Hall effect on semiconductors joints . When the user wears the electronic compass and starts the bluetooth handshaking procedure with the mobile phone , the direction is automatically detected and transmitted to the mobile phone through the bluetooth link .
Fig 2 The region around the actual GPS position is split into four zones which are further divided into three sub regions from Ai ( the closest to PGPS ) to Ci ( the farthest ) . In our prototype only four main directions have been considered ( N,O,S,E ) . Despite this limited resolution we consider it sufficient to the objective of the system . Given the actual user's position PGPS estimated by GPS tracker ( Fig 3 ) , the region is divided into four areas ( N,O,S,E ) . The four zones are further divided into three sub regions ( Fig 2 ) , from Ai ( the closest to PGPS ) to Ci ( the farthest ) . One picture from the Ai subregion is displayed with the best resolution , the four smallest pictures are from the subregions Bi and Ci . The criteria is similar to what authors propose in [ 3 ] : distant points of interest are displayed with a smaller thumbnail . When the user press the left or right arrows the set of images rotates and the description of the central image is shown on the bottom of the phone screen . Some snapshots of the running prototype are shown in Fig 3 .
( a )
( b )
Fig 3 . Two snapshots of the application on a Nokia N95 .
4.CONCLUSION In this paper a new mobile browser for geo referenced pictures , based on GPS and compass has been proposed . The preliminary tests show that users find very interesting and useful this type of application . In order to make the prototype even more functional and effective , in our laboratories several subjective and objective usage tests are under development . Next generation mobile terminals will be equipped with both GPS and compass , enabling a large deployment of this kind of applications . 5.REFERENCES [ 1 ] Torniai , C . and Battle , S . and Cayer , S . Sharing , Discovering and Browsing Geotagged Pictures on the World Wide Web . In The Geospatial Web . Scharl , A . and Tochtermann , K . Eds . Springer , pp 159 170 .
[ 2 ] Effrat , J . , Mandayam , A . , Susilo , K , GeoFoto : Mobile
Viewing of Geo Referenced Photos , http://hcistanfordedu/srk/cs377a mobile/project/final/effratmandayam susilopdf
[ 3 ] D . Carboni , V . Marotto , F . Massidda , and P . Zanarini ,
Fractal Browsing of Large Geo Referenced Picture Sets , 2nd International Workshop on Distributed Agent based Retrieval Tools , September 10 , 2008 Cagliari , Italy .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091182
