Web Image Retrieval ReRanking with Multi view Clustering
Mingmin Chi Fudan University
Peiwu Zhang Fudan University
School of Computer Science ,
School of Computer Science ,
220 Han Dan Road , Shanghai ,
China mmchi@fudaneducn
220 Han Dan Road , Shanghai , 06300720175@fudaneducn
China
School of Computer Science ,
School of Computer Science ,
Yingbin Zhao Fudan University
220 Han Dan Road , Shanghai , zhaoyingbin@fudaneducn
China
Rui Feng
Fudan University
China
School of Computer Science ,
Xiangyang Xue Fudan University
220 Han Dan Road , Shanghai ,
220 Han Dan Road , Shanghai , fengrui@fudaneducn xyxue@fudaneducn
China
ABSTRACT General image retrieval is often carried out by a text based search engine , such as Google Image Search . In this case , natural language queries are used as input to the search engine . Usually , the user queries are quite ambiguous and the returned results are not well organized as the ranking often done by the popularity of an image . In order to address these problems , we propose to use both textual and visual contents of retrieved images to reRank web retrieved results . In particular , a machine learning technique , a multi view clustering algorithm is proposed to reorganize the original results provided by the text based search engine . Preliminary results validate the effectiveness of the proposed framework .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL—Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Algorithms , Design
Keywords Web image retrieval , reRanking , multi view clustering
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Usually , there are two ways for image retrieval : ( 1)imagebased search engine : high dimensional , difficult for image understanding , and ( 2)text based search engine : popular , easy to access and describe . For the former , content based image retrieval ( CBIR ) is quite popular and successful in the last two decades [ 3 ] . However , it suffers from a so called “ semantic gap ” problem between visual low level features and semantic high level ones .
Most of web image retrieval engines focus on the textbased index , where text queries are input to an existing
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . web search engine , eg , Google Image Search 1 . A huge amount of images in different classes are stored in the indexed web image database by search engine companies with labeling work . The text information usually includes the filename of a document , the block with tagging , information surrounding . However , the textual representations of images often are ambiguous and non informative of image contents . Moreover , the query provided by user is usually short consisting of one or two terms and so the short query is more likely to be ambiguous . Therefore , returned images can include significant different semantic meanings with disorganized results .
In the poster , a web image retrieval reRanking framework is proposed to reorganize returned results with disambiguated semantic meanings . The heterogenetic contextual information is used for data analysis including both textual and visual features . In particular , multi view clustering algorithm is proposed to reorder the initial image retrieval results provided by a text based search engine . Preliminary results validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach . The rest of the poster is organized as follows . A web image reRanking framework and a multi view clustering algorithm are described in Section 2 . Section 3 reports reRanking results . Finally , conclusions are given in Section 4 .
2 . PROPOSED FRAMEWORK
Due to disorganization and ambiguous results , it is necessary to reorganize the original retrieved images provided by the text based search engine . In the poster , two sources of contents are integrated to reRank the original results . 2.1 Feature Extraction
In a text based image search engine , only a single view , textual features are used for indexing . In the proposed framework , a hybrid of both textual and visual low level features are used for data analysis .
Textual features : With image tag , webpage filename , and texts surrounding image , textual features are obtained based on a commonly used statistical measure : Term Frequency– Inverse Document Frequency(tfidf ) . Due to space limitations , reader is referred to [ 1 ] for details . 1http://imagesgooglecom
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091189 Visual features : We used the color features . Scalable color descriptor is a color histogram in the YCrCb color space , which is encoded by a Haar transform . 2.2 Multi View Clustering Algorithm
Two sources of contents , ie , textual and visual features , are extracted to design the so called multi view clustering algorithm . In [ 2 ] , each view ( set ) of features is separately used for clustering , and then the clustering results are combined in the end . When doing so , the clustering results by different views only have few common data points . To address this problem , we define a new similarity measure by considering both views of the features .
For textual features , the cosine similarity cos ( xi , xj ) is used . In order to get the same scale for visual features as that for textual ones , a normalized Euclidean distance is adopted in form , nEuc(xi , xj ) = . xi − xj . / ( . xi . + . xj )
To integrate the two sources of contents , a hybrid distance measure is defined as :
α · cos(x
( 1 ) i
, x
( 1 ) j ) + ( 1 − α ) · nEuc(x
( 2 ) i
, x
( 2 ) j )
( 1 ) i
( 2 ) i is the ith pattern with textual features , x where x is the ith pattern with visual features and α is a constant , which controls the contribution of textual features . If α = 0/1 , only the visual/textual features are considered and so the algorithm is reduced to a single view clustering algorithm ; otherwise , two view features are integrated for clustering . 2.3 Web Image reRanking
After grouping the original results based on two view features , a keyword for each cluster is obtained for reRanking according to the tfidf weight value in a given cluster . In this case , the tf weight of each word is the total frequency in the cluster instead of that in each document for text categorization . In the poster , we only use one word for the semantic meaning of an image cluster .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
It is well known that “ Apple ” has many semantic meanings . Thus in the experiment , the query “ Apple ” was used to validate the effectiveness of the proposed strategy . By Google Image Search , we obtained the results shown in Fig 1(a ) on Sept . 9 , 2008 . To fit the interface we defined , the left column shows the original retrieved results by Google Image Search , and the right column is a hierarchy provided by the proposed strategy , which shows the categories of different items related to “ Apple ” , ie , apple nano ( iphone ) , apple store , apple tv , apple safari ( browser ) , apple fruit ( most related to recipe ) , apple patent , and others . From the results provided by the Google Image Search engine , if user is interested in the logo related to “ patent ” , it is necessary for her/him to turn over too many pages to find the interesting one from the original results . However , by the proposed framework , s/he can directly click the button of “ patent ” shown in the hierarchical menu to find all the interesting ones . For the space limitations , only the browser ( safari ) is shown in Fig 1(b ) when α = 04 From the results , one can see that it is much more friendly and easy for user to identify the images that s/he wants .
( a ) Google
( b ) Safari
Figure 1 : Image reRanking results with the query “ Apple ” by the proposed framework , ( a ) the original retrieved images by Google Image Search , and ( b ) the reRanking images by the proposed framework . 4 . CONCLUSIONS
In the poster , a web image retrieval reRanking strategy is proposed , where the images retrieved by the text based search engine are reorganized for better visualization . In particular , a multi view clustering algorithm is proposed to integrate two view contents , ie , textual and visual features extracted from web images . Experiment with the query “ Apple ” shows the effectiveness of the proposed framework .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported in part by Natural Science Foundation of China under contracts 60705008 and 60873178 , Shanghai Municipal R&D Foundation under contract 075107006 , and PhD Programs Foundation of Ministry of Education of China under contract 20070246132 .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Baeza Yates and B . Ribeiro Neto . Modern Information Retrieval . Addison Wesley , 1999 .
[ 2 ] S . Bickel and T . Scheffer . Multi view clustering . In
ICDM ’04 : Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , pages 19–26 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] X . S . Zhou and T . S . Huang . Relevance feedback in image retrieval : A comprehensive review . Multimedia Systems , 8(6):536–544 , 2003 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091190
