An Experimental Study of Large Scale Mobile Social
Network
Zheng Bin Dong1 Guo Jie Song1 1 Key Laboratory of Machine Perception , Ministry of Education , Peking University
{dongzhengbin,gjsong}@cispkueducn
ABSTRACT Mobile social network is a typical social network where one or more individuals of similar interests or commonalities , conversing and connecting with one another using the mobile phone . Our works in this paper focus on the experimental study for this kind of social network with the support of large scale real mobile call data . The main contributions can be summarized as three fold : firstly , a large scale real mobile phone call log of one city has been extracted from a mobile phone carrier in China to construct mobile social network ; secondly , common features of traditional social networks , such as power law distribution and small diameter etc , have been experimented , with which we confirm that the mobile social network is a typical scale free network and has small world phenomenon ; lastly , different from traditional analytical methods , important properties of the actors , such as gender and age , have been introduced into our experiments with some interesting findings about human behavior , for example , the middle age people are more active than the young and old people , and the female is unusual more active than the male while in the old age .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences– Sociology ; G22 [ Mathematics of Computing ] : Graph Theory– Graph algorithms , Network problems .
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Performance , Human Factors
Keywords Degree distribution , shortest path , diameter , clustering coefficient , betweenness centrality .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Mobile phones are becoming increasingly ubiquitous throughout large portions of the world , especially in highly populated urban areas , where mobile phone penetration is almost 100 % . Mobile phone call networks extracted from call logs is a social network naturally , where the phone user is the node and there is an edge between them if they have communication at least once . Mobile social network reflects people ’s interaction in social lives and has some advantages compared to other social network , eg coauthorship network , email network and world wide web , to un
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
Jing Yao Wang2 Kun Qing Xie1 2 China Mobile Group HeiLongJiang Co . , Ltd
{kunqing}@cispkueducn cover the properties and structure of large scale social network and human behavior in social lives . However , because of the privacy problem , it is very difficult to obtain the mobile phone call data and then there is no much scientific research on this valuable data .
In this paper we construct the mobile social network of a city in China and analyze the statistic properties and structure of the network by using some important network metrics .
2 . MOBILE SOCIAL NETWORK
We extract the mobile social network from one month call logs of a city in China . We get 2,590,361 phone users who have two attributes : age ( from 15 to 70 ) and gender , which are computed from the Chinese Resident Identification Number . We use an undirected binary graph to represent the mobile social network , where the nodes are users and the edges are relationships . A show of the mobile social network by using Pajek [ 1 ] is in Figure 1(f ) , in which the triangle represents the male while ellipse represents the female and different colors represent the different age brackets .
The mobile social network with 2,590,361 nodes is not a connected graph , which has 56,601 connected subgraph and the largest connected subgraph has 2,532,298 nodes – the percentage is 9776 % The rest analysis of this paper will focus on the largest connected subgraph .
3 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 3.1 Degree Distribution
The degree of the node in mobile social network represents the number of friends the user has . So in certain aspect the degree indicates how important or active the user is . The degree distribution of the mobile social network is illustrated in Figure 1(a ) and the average degree of the different age and gender is illustrated in Figure 1(b ) .
From Figure 1(a ) , we find that the degree distribution almost fits the power law distribution like other social networks , eg email network , co authorship network , but the main difference is that the curve has a peak at the degree five . We believe that this is not a noise but a true difference , because every people have some certain friends to contact in social lives , so the peak is not at degree one like other social networks .
From Figure 1(b ) , we find some very interesting results about human behavior : 1 ) the middle age people are more active than the young and old people . The distribution of the average degree reflects a person ’s behavior in the whole life : begin entering the society from about 20 years old ; become very active in middle age ( about 40 years old ) ; and decay in the old age ( after 60 years old ) ; 2 ) the male is always more active than the female in the social network except in the old age , which is very interesting and
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091175 ( a ) Degree distribution
( b ) Average degree distribution
( c ) Average length of shortest path
( d ) Clustering Coefficient
( e ) Betweenness Centrality
( f ) The mobile social network
Pajek
Figure 1 : Our experimental studies of mobile social networks on real mobile phone call logs conflicts with our traditional thought . We think this unusual result may be explained by Fischer and Oliker’ theory [ 2 ] , they suggest that age and lifestyle stage account for network differences , with young married men having larger networks than their wives , and the reverse being true for older married couples .
3.2 Shortest Paths and Diameter
A shortest path between two nodes is a minimal length path between them . The diameter is length of the longest shortest path . It is impossible in practice to obtain the exact value of diameter in a large scale network because of the too high computational cost . So in this paper we approximate the bounds for the diameter by using the algorithms proposed in [ 4 ] . We obtain that the lower bound is 15 and the upper bound is 17 .
We compute the average shortest path by sampling 2537 nodes in the network in Figure 1(c ) and the overall average shortest path is 5.75 , which proves the famous Six Degree of Separation Theory proposed by Stanley Milgram from another point of view .
3.3 Clustering Coefficient
It is very expensive to obtain the exact value of betweenness in large scale network , so we use the sampling methods proposed in [ 3 ] . The distribution with different age and gender is plotted in Figure 1(e ) . Because of the sampling the curve is fluctuated very badly , but we can conclude the similar results about human behavior of the different age and gender as Figure 1(b ) .
4 . CONCULUSION
In this paper , we analyze the statistical properties and structure of a real large scale mobile social network by using some important network metrics from the view of users’ age and gender . We find that mobile social network is a typical scale free network and small world network and also find some very interesting results about the human behavior of different age and gender in the social network .
This work is supported by the National Natural Science Founda tion of China under Grant No.60703066 and No60874082
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Batagelj , V . , and Mrvar , A . : Pajek . Program for large
The clustering coefficient measures the extent of the inter connectivity
Network Analysis . Connections , 1998 . between the neighbors of a node . If the neighborhood is fully connected , the value is 1 and a value close to 0 means that there are hardly any connections in the neighborhood .
The distribution of clustering coefficient versus nodes number is plotted in Figure 1(d ) , from which we can conclude that the distribution fits power law distribution and the mobile social network is sparse as a whole but very dense in some local region .
3.4 Betweenness Centrality
Betweenness is the most widely used metric to measure the important of a node in a network . Vertices that occur on many shortest paths between other vertices have higher betweenness .
[ 2 ] Fischer , CS , and Oliker , SJ : A research note on friendship , gender and the life cycle . Social Forces , 62,124 133 , 1983 .
[ 3 ] Geisberg , R . , Sanders , P . , and Scultes , D . : Better approximation of betweenness centrality . In Proceedings of the 10th workshop on Algorithm Engineering and Experiments ( ALENEX’08).SIAM , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Magnien , C . , Latapy , M . , and Habib , M . : Fast computation of empirically tight bounds for the diameter of massive graphs , http://www rplip6fr/ latapy/Diameter/ , 2007 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091176
