Dataplorer : A Scalable Search Engine for the Data Web
Haofen Wang , Qiaoling Liu , Gui Rong Xue , Yong Yu Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai , 200240 , China {whfcarter , lql , grxue , yyu}@apexsjtueducn
Lei Zhang , Yue Pan IBM China Research Lab Beijing , 100094 , China
{lzhangl , panyue}@cnibmcom
ABSTRACT More and more structured information in the form of semantic data is nowadays available . It offers a wide range of new possibilities especially for semantic search and Web data integration . However , their effective exploitation still brings about a number of challenges , eg usability , scalability and uncertainty . In this paper , we present Dataplorer , a solution designed to address these challenges . We consider the usability through the use of hybrid queries and faceted search , while still preserving the scalability thanks to an extension of inverted index to support this type of query . Moreover , Dataplorer deals with uncertainty by means of a powerful ranking scheme to find relevant results . Our experimental results show that our proposed approach is promising and it makes us believe that it is possible to extend the current IR infrastructure to query and search the Web of data .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms : Algorithms , Performance , Experimentation
Keywords : hybrid query , inverted index , ranking , faceted search
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Structured information is nowadays available and grows rapidly to form a Web of data . It offers a wide range of new possibilities that were until now out of reach . To prepare the arrival of new applications and scenarios benefiting from this information , several initiatives have appeared , among which it is possible to notice the Linking Open Data project [ 1 ] .
However , the effective exploitation of the Web of data still brings about a number of challenges : Usability – Structured queries cannot be imposed as such to the end user , usually lacking knowledge about the language itself and the data schema . Scalability – As the already impressive amount of data available is ever growing , efficient search solutions able to scale to this level are becoming essential . Uncertainty – The diverse provenance of the data , as well as the different ways it can be interpreted or queried require the consideration of the uncertainty and imperfection .
In this paper , we present Dataplorer , a solution designed to address these challenges without sacrificing one for the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . sake of the others . The usability challenge is addressed by providing the user with hybrid query capabilities , leveraging the power of structured queries and the ease of use of keyword search . We also propose a faceted search functionality that allows users to progressively compose the structured part of their information need after having started with imprecise keywords . Scalability is one of the main challenges that hybrid queries are facing , due to the large amount of data . Inspired from the cross field of DB and IR integration , we make IR compatible with hybrid search through an extension of the inverted index , and thus able to scale as well as to handle structured information . To ensure that uncertainty does not remain as a problem to return relevant results , we provide a powerful ranking scheme that considers structures of both data and hybrid queries for score propagation and aggregation during results ranking . As an improvement of our previous work [ 3 ] , we support faceted search with integrated ranking to tackle both usability and uncertainty issues while preserving efficiency . 2 . SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The architecture is presented by Figure 1 . It is composed of three main components : a front end interface , needed to address the usability challenges by making the functionalities accessible to the user , a search component , in charge of retrieving and ranking the results , and a component used to index the Web of data in an efficient way . The system demo can be found through http://dataplorerapexlaborg
Figure 1 : Dataplorer Architecture
2.1 Hybrid Query Capability
Let us assume that a user called Alice is willing to find information about martial art films directed by Hong Kong
The Back End EngineSearch Layer Relation based RankingDFS based RetrievalWeb of DataUser The Front End Interface Faceted Browsing & Searching Relation Navigation Index Layer Indexing Keywords Indexing Categories Indexing RelationsHybrid QueriesRanked ResultsWWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091079 Figure 2 : An Example Hybrid Query field f and a term t , it retrieves the corresponding posting list as an Ascending Integer Stream ( AIS ) , which is accessed from the smallest integer to the largest one . ( 2 ) Merge sort m(S1,∩ , S2 ) . Given two AISs S1 and S2 , it computes S1 ∩ S2 and returns a new AIS . ( 3 ) Mass union u(S , R ) . Given a relation R and a AIS S , it computes the set {o | ∃s : s ∈ S ∧ ( s , R , o)} and returns it as a AIS .
Table 1 : Translating data into “ Documents ” in IR Document Field concept C relation R text text type
Term tokens in textual properties tokens in textual properties concepts that i belongs to all relations R that ( i , R , ? ) is a triple in data all relations R that ( ? , R , i ) is a triple in data tokens in textual properties of i individual i subjOf objOf text directors and starring Chinese martial art actors . The ability to use a conjunction of keywords like “ martial art ” and precise semantic relations like “ directed by ” gives the opportunity to improve the user experience when addressing complex information needs . Figure 2 depicts the example query . The definition of the hybrid queries used by Dataplorer is based on the work previously done by [ 2 ] focusing on conjunctive queries that we extended to combine keyword and structured data search . A hybrid conjunctive query q is a query expression of the form q(x ) ← ∃−→y .conj(x,−→y ) , where x is called the target variable , −→y are existentially quantified variables called non distinguished variables , and conj(x,−→y ) R−(z1 , z2 ) . z , z1 , z2 are individuals or variables in x or −→y . is a conjunction of terms of the form C(z ) , R(z1 , z2 ) , or
R is a relation name and C represents a concept expression that is a boolean combination of concept names and keyword concept W . In this paper , we restrict to queries whose graph patterns are trees , as in [ 2 ] . We also restrict the query result to be unary ( ie , a single target variable x in the query ) . These restrictions lead to a much more simplified and hence efficient query evaluation procedure , while a large portion of information needs can still be expressed . 2.2 Data Indexing
Inverted index is based on the concepts of documents , fields , and terms . Each term is associated with a posting list of documents containing it . In addition , for each of these documents , there is a list of positions showing where the term appears in it . Current search engines have proved this technique to easily scale to the Web . By leveraging the index structure , we translate the Web of data into documents , fields and terms in a proper way , as shown by Table 1 . In order to index a relation instance ( s , R , o ) , We use the position list to store the objects of relation R under subject s , where s is treated as a document with a field named subjOf and a term R in the field . Similarly , the objOf field can be considered as indexing instances of the relation R− . 2.3 Faceted Search with Integrated Ranking Dataplorer efficiently answers a tree shaped hybrid query using a DFS ( ie Depth First Search ) based retrieval algorithm according to a well optimized query plan . The query evaluation is reduced to three basic operations over posting lists including ( 1 ) Basic retrieval b(f , t ) . Given a
1,∩ , S
We propose a ranking scheme according to ranking principles quality propagation and quantity aggregation , which means that the higher the quality of a neighbor ( or the more the number of its neighbors ) , the higher the rank of a result . First , we attach a scoring capability to each AIS and obtain a Scored AIS ( SAIS ) , eg S = {d1 , 0.4,d3 , 0.8 , } We then generalize the three basic operations to b(f , t ) , m(S 2 ) , u(S , R ) , so that they are adapted to SAIS . For basic retrieval b(f , t ) , we score an item in its result by b(f , t)[d ] = RSV ( t , d ) where RSV ( t , d ) computes the relevance of d with respect to t according to the tf idf principle 1,∩ , S and returns a degree in [ 0,1 ] . For merge sort m(S 2 ) , 1[d ] · we score an item in its result by m(S 2[d ] . For mass union u(S , R ) , we score an item in its reS s:s∈S∧(s,R,o)(1 − S[s] ) . Thus , the ranking scheme is tightly integrated in query processing . Faceted search is recognized as an effective means to explore the Web of data . Starting from a keyword query , the user gets the ranked results as well as the corresponding available facets ( ie concepts and relations ) to construct hybrid queries iteratively . Dataplorer computes the data distribution of all associated facets . We reduce the computation to hybrid queries by modeling concepts and relations as “ general documents ” and introducing TYPE , SUBJECT OF , OBJECT OF as “ general relations ” . sult by u(S , R)[o ] = 1 −
2)[d ] = S
1,∩ , S
3 . EVALUATION
For the experiments , we used DBLP , DBpedia , Freebase , USCensus , GeoNames , SW.org , and SWRC . Totally , the indexed data adds up to 1.1 billion triples . We compared the query performance of Dataplorer with SOR1 and RDF 3X2 on 45 structured conjunctive queries with different shapes , lengths and variable numbers . Thanks to the benefit of spatial locality for fast access using the extension of the inverted index , Dataplorer outperforms RDF 3X in most cases although RDF 3X has employed well designed compression and optimization technologies . Dataplorer ’s performance is comparable to that of SOR with cache , and is one or two orders of magnitude faster than SOR when performing coldstart . We further created 20 hybrid queries from the questions collected from 10 users . Dataplorer achieved more than 20 % improvements on P @10 compared with that of traditional keyword search systems and database with fulltext extensions . Moreover , all these queries can be answered within one second which indicates the good efficiency as well .
4 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] C . Bizer , T . Heath , K . Idehen , and T . Berners Lee . Linked data on the web . In Proc . of WWW , 2008 .
[ 2 ] I . Horrocks and S . Tessaris . Querying the semantic web : A formal approach . In Proc . of ISWC , 2002 .
[ 3 ] L . Zhang , Q . Liu , J . Zhang , H . Wang , Y . Pan , and Y . Yu .
Semplore : An IR Approach to Scalable Hybrid Query of Semantic Web Data . In Proc . of ISWC , 2007 .
1http://wwwalphaworksibmcom/tech/semanticstk 2http://wwwmpi infmpgde/ neumann/rdf3x
0x1x2xstarringdirected_by"martial"Chinese actorsHong Kong film directors"action film"WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091080
