Automatically Filling Form Based
Web Interfaces with Free Text Inputs
Guilherme A . Toda†
∗ Altigran S . da Silva†
Eli Cortez†
Filipe Mesquita†
Edleno Moura†
Marden Neubert‡
†Federal University of Amazonas
{gat,eccv,fsm,alti,edleno}@dccufamedubr
‡Uol Inc . marden@uolinc.com
ABSTRACT On the web of today the most prevalent solution for users to interact with data intensive applications is the use of formbased interfaces composed by several data input fields , such as text boxes , radio buttons , pull down lists , check boxes , etc . Although these interfaces are popular and effective , in many cases , free text interfaces are preferred over formbased ones . In this paper we discuss the proposal and the implementation of a novel IR based method for using data rich free text to interact with form based interfaces . Our solution takes a free text as input , extracts implicitly data values from it and fills appropriate fields using them . For this task , we rely on values of previous submissions for each field , which are freely obtained from the usage of form based interfaces . Categories and Subject Descriptors J.0 [ Computer Applications ] : General
General Terms Algorithms , Management
Keywords Data Extraction , Form Filling , Web Application
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Web is abundant in data intensive applications such as online stores , digital libraries , and data sharing services ( eg Craiglists , Googlebase ) , which store and maintain high volumes of data in the so called Web databases . One of the challenges regarding the development of this type of application is building intuitive interfaces for allowing users to interact with their underlying structured databases . The most prevalent solution in this direction is designing formbased interfaces which contain data input fields , such as text boxes , radio buttons , pull down lists , check boxes and other input mechanisms .
This situation is very common in popular auction sites such as eBay and amazon.com which extensively use formbased interfaces for allowing users to register offers . In fact , there may be distinct form based interfaces with specific
∗Contact author .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
Figure 1 : Overview of a pure form based interface ( a ) and iForm ( b ) . fields depending on the product being offered . For instance , in the experiments presented in this paper , we consider distinct interfaces corresponding to the categories ” vehicles ” , ” mobile phones ” from the Brazilian popular auction site TodaOfertacom Interestingly , as some of these sites ( eg , eBay and TodaOferta ) also allow entering offers using generic free text descriptions , users often avoid using form based interfaces . However , in many cases the lacking of structured information obtained through these interfaces may prevent the proper use of services based on searching , mining , recommendation and integration over offers .
In this paper we propose an aproach that consists in deploying a system that receives a free text input ( eg , an offer or an ad ) , and recognizes implicit data values occurring in it that can be used to appropriately fill out the fields in a form based interface . Unlike approaches for information extraction from free text [ 2 , 1 ] , our approach does not require a training phase over manually labeled texts , since it simply relies on values previously entered in form based interfaces .
2 . THE IFORM APPROACH
In this section , we present the iForm approach in contrast to form based interfaces as illustrated in Figure 1 . Before using iForm for boosting a form based interface , we consider that users have been using the interface as shown in Figure 1a , by typing values in fields to interact with the database DB . The values manually entered in this process allow us to build and maintain lexicons , which stores terms used for filling each field . Lexicons are the crux of iForm approach . Users dealing with iForm , as illustrated in Figure 1b , provide a free text document or portions as input and iForm extract values for filling the form by matching
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091163 the contents of the input text with the lexicon of each field . For simplicity , we refer to the user free text document or portions as input text from now on . Users may want to verify the form filled by our method to make corrections and then proceed with the request submission . After that , iForm automatically updates the lexicon index for improving the extraction quality as users deal with iForm .
The iForm approach consists in extracting values from the input text using lexicons and filling a target form based interface using them . In order to identify suitable field values in the input text we first break it into segments and then estimate the affinity of each segment to a field . Intuitively , the affinity score would be 1 if the segment is found as a value in the field domain ( ie , the set of all possible values of the field ) and 0 , otherwise . Since this solution is intractable in many cases , we try to estimate the affinity by estimating how frequent terms composing the segment are in the values of a field . For this , we rely on a set of representative terms for each field , such that most values in the field domain presents at least one term from this set . In practice , we consider that the lexicon index contains enough representative terms for identifying values .
Once we identify set Pk of potential values Sab for each field fk , we aim at finding a mapping between values in Pk and fields in the form based interface with maximum aggregate affinity , such that ( 1 ) only a single segment is assigned to each field and ( 2 ) the segments select are non overlapping , ie , there are no segments Sab and Scd for a < c in the mapping such that b ≥ c . The last step in our approach consists in using the final mapping to fill out the fields of the formbased interface .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
We have conducted two sets of experiments . In the first one , we used jobs postings for comparing iForm with CRF [ 2 ] , a state of art data extraction method.In the second experiment we tested our method with real multi typed web forms for submissions of Car ads/offers and Mobile Phones offers .
Comparison with CRF
This experiment compares iForm and CRF [ 2 ] for the task of extracting segments from text inputs and filling out a form . We took from the RISE Jobs collection a subset of 100 job postings whose segments to be extracted were manually labeled . These job postings form an adequate training set for CRF , since this method requires examples of values to be extracted to appear within the context they occur . This same set was used to create the lexicons for iForm .
Next , we tested both approaches using a distinct set of 50 documents , whose extraction outcome was available from RISE , allowing us to automatically verify the results .
According to the results presented in the Table 1 , iForm had significant superior F measure levels in 7 fields . The lower quality obtained by CRF is explained by the fact that segments to be extracted from typical free text inputs , such as jobs postings , may not appear in a regular context , which is an important requirement for CRF .
Experiments with a Real Form Based Interface
To evaluate the performance of our approach within typical scenarios , we test iForm with a form based interfaces from a Brazilian popular auction site ( http://wwwtodaoferta com ) . We performed experiments with vehicle form , that
Field State City
Language
Required Degree
Platform
Title
Company
Salary Average
Submission level
0.93
0.85
0.82
0.66
0.57
0.16 0.14 0.56
0.61
1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 3.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % iForm CRF T Test Wilcoxon 0.98
0.79 0.54 0.66 0.00 0.5 0.44 0.09 0.23
0.39 0.42
1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 3.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 % 2.00 % 1.00 % 1.00 %
Table 1 : Field level f measure for each field and submission level f measure for the comparative experiment . contains 4 text boxes and 28 check boxes – a total of 32 fields , and mobile phones form that consists of 2 text boxes and 35 check boxes – a total of 37 fields .
To create the lexicons , we used real offers submitted during October 2008 to each interface . Tests were performed using other 50 offers for each interface , distinct from the offers used to create the lexicons . The results are presented in Table 2 .
A detailed inspection on the offers entered by users in this interface , revealed that , in many cases , users simply cut and past mobile phone specifications from the manufacturer ’s web sites , leading to a high uniformity in the free text advertisements submitted to the text boxes .
Text Box Check Box
Type of Field # Fields Precision Recall 86.00 % 77.00 % 81.50 %
85.00 % 77.00 % 81.00 %
Average
4 28
( a ) Vehicles
Text Box Check Box
Type of Field # Fields Precision Recall 87.00 % 99.00 % 93.00 %
91.00 % 99.00 % 95.00 %
Average
2 35
F Measure
0.85 0.77 0.81
F Measure
0.89 0.99 0.94
( b ) Mobile Phones
Table 2 : Field level results for offers from TodaOferta . 4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper we presented a framework called iForm for automatically using data values implicitly available in free text documents as input for a pre existing form based interface . We proposed a novel IR based method for identifying implicit values in the free text documents and filling the form based interface using them . We tested our approach with representative instances of the problem and found that it achieved better results than CRF , a state of art data extraction model . Our experiments also demonstrate that our approach is able to properly deal with different types of input fields , such as text boxes , pull down lists and check boxes . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . E . Califf and R . J . Mooney . Relational learning of pattern match rules for information extraction . pages 328–334 . American Association for Artificial Intelligence , 1999 .
[ 2 ] J . D . Lafferty , A . McCallum , and F . C . N . Pereira . Conditional random fields : Probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data . pages 282–289 . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc . , 2001 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091164
