The Value of Socially Tagged URLs for a Search Engine
Santanu Kolay
Yahoo! Inc .
Sunnyvale , CA 94089 , USA santanuk@yahoo inc.com
Ali Dasdan Yahoo! Inc .
Sunnyvale , CA 94089 , USA dasdan@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Social bookmarking has emerged as a growing source of human generated content on the web . In essence , bookmarking involves URLs and tags on them . In this paper , we perform a large scale study of the usefulness of bookmarked URLs from the top social bookmarking site Delicious . Instead of focusing on the dimension of tags , which has been covered in the previous work , we explore social bookmarking from the dimension of URLs . More specifically , we investigate the Delicious URLs and their content to quantify their value to a search engine . For their value in leading to good content , we show that the Delicious URLs have higher quality content and more external outlinks . For their value in satisfying users , we show that the Delicious URLs have more clicked URLs as well as get more clicks . We suggest that based on their value , the Delicious URLs should be used as another source of seed URLs for crawlers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Search Process
General Terms Experimentation , Human Factors , Measurement
Keywords Content quality , Delicious , social bookmarking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent years , social bookmarking sites have seen tremendous growth . For example , popular sites like Delicious is now reporting to have more than 5 million users and 180 million unique URLs tagged . These collaborative bookmarking sites allow users to save and tag URLs with related keywords and to share them with the public or their friends . With the growing popularity of social bookmarking , these tagged URLs are becoming a growing source of human generated content .
A few studies have tried to analyze various social bookmarking systems from the “ tags angle ” : the quality of tags [ 3 ] , the impact of social bookmarking on information organization [ 2 ] , tag popularity as a ranking feature [ 5 ] , taxonomies
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . of tags [ 4 ] , and growth patterns [ 1 ] . In contrast , we approach social bookmarking from the “ URLs angle ” . Specifically , we try to quantify the value of tagged URLs for a major search engine .
In our study , we focus on the most popular social bookmarking site , Delicious . We try to answer these questions : Can the bookmarked URLs lead to new or quality content on the Web ? Can the bookmarked URLs satisfy users when presented in search results ? We answer both questions in the affirmative . In particular , we show that bookmarked URLs serve as good seed URLs for crawling , lead to the discovery of many new URLs , have higher quality content , and finally receive relatively more clicks from users . Since we had privileged access into the Delicious data , we were able to perform a full scale study of bookmarked URLs , far larger than done in the previous work .
2 . METHODOLOGY
Crawling . Search engines mainly acquire content from crawling the web . Crawlers start crawling from seed URLs and follow links ( outlinks ) from the crawled pages . Among important areas of focus during crawling are the discovery of new content and the discovery of high quality content . The easiest way to utilize the Delicious URLs is to feed them into the crawler as seed URLs .
Quality and spam scores . Search engines use sophisticated machine learning techniques with many features to compute quality and spam scores for a given page . Features include various link , site , and page features . Each score is mapped to a finite range , say , zero to 100 . For each range , we defined a threshold to classify the good and bad content . Dataset . We had an initial sample of 100 million unique URLs from Delicious . We then filtered out the URLs that have been bookmarked only once . Using a crawler , we fetched the pages of these URLs from the Web . We also computed their quality and spam scores . Finally , we joined the URLs with 2 days of user query logs to compute their click frequency .
3 . RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Stability and depth . After one month of crawling , 95 % of the URLs in our dataset were crawlable . Around 2 % of them were not crawlable due to the robots exclusion protocol and 1 % resulted in a 404 error ( page not found ) . These results show that the Delicious URLs are not only crawlable but also stable on the web . Moreover , out of the crawled URLs , only 20 % of them were the domain roots . In other words , most of them reach deep into the sites .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091203 ( a ) Click through rate ( CTR ) .
( b ) Total number of clicks .
Figure 1 : Clickability of the Delicious URLs compared to a random sample of URLs of the same size .
Discovery . The external outlink distribution of the Delicious URLs is similar to that of a random set of URLs ; their medians were the same at 4 but their means were a little different : the mean for the Delicious URLs was about 60 % more than that for the random URLs . We noticed that this was due to the presence of some higher degree Delicious URLs . When we compared the discoverability using the URLs that were one hop away from the seed URLs , we found out that the average external outdegree for the neighbor URLs of the Delicious URLs was more than 3 times larger that that for the neighbor URLs of the random URLs . These results support the high value of the Delicious URLs for discovering new content .
Content quality . Assuming 100 buckets for the quality score range , we have found out that more than 90 % of the Delicious URLs fell in the top bucket and more than 95 % of them fell among the top three buckets . In other words , almost all of these URLs were among the highest quality URLs . From the point of view of spam and adult content , we have found that less than 4 % of the Delicious URLs had spam score larger than what we considered spam content . Moreover , less than 1 % of them were flagged as adult content . These observations support the claim that the Delicious URLs are of high quality .
Clickability . For the clickability analysis , we created one sample from the Delicious URLs and another one from a random set of URLs . Both samples had the same size and were presented to users as search results . We then measured two metrics out of these samples : ( 1 ) the histogram of the click through rate ( CTR ) and ( 2 ) the histogram of the total number of clicks . These histograms are shown in Fig 1(a ) and Fig 1(b ) , respectively . Note that the CTR of a URL is the ratio of the number of clicks to the number of views or impressions that the URL receives . For Fig 1(a ) , the URLs were distributed to the buckets on the x axis based on the ctr values ( five values , linear increases ) ; and for Fig 1(b ) , the distribution to the x axis buckets were on the basis of the number of clicks the URLs receive .
It is evident from these figures that compared to the ran dom URLs , the Delicious URLs not only receive significantly more clicks but they also get more clicks per view . These findings are even more important given that the number of URLs that get clicked decreases as the number of clicks they receive increases , ie , as we move towards the right on the x axis of Fig 1(b ) . All in all , these findings indicate the the higher clickability of the Delicious URLs .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
Our study shows that the Delicious URLs provide significant value to web search engines from the perspective of content discovery and user search satisfaction . Seeding a crawler with these URLs leads to faster discovery of good quality content . Moreover , when they are served to users in response to queries , the number of them receiving clicks as well as the total number of clicks they receive are significantly high .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] U . Farooq , Y . Song , J . M . Carroll , and C . L . Giles .
Social bookmarking for scholarly digital libraries . IEEE Internet Computing , 11(6):29–35 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] P . Heymann and H . Garcia Molina . Can tagging organize human knowledge ? Technical report , Stanford University , 2008 .
[ 3 ] P . Heymann , G . Koutrika , and H . Garcia Molina . Can social bookmarking improve web search ? In Proc . Int . Conf . on Web Search and Web Data Mining ( WSDM ) , pp . 195–206 . ACM , 2008 .
[ 4 ] D . Ramage , P . Heymann , C . D . Manning , and
H . Garcia Molina . Clustering the tagged web . In Proc . Int . Conf . on Web Search and Web Data Mining ( WSDM ) . ACM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] Y . Yanbe , A . Jatowt , S . Nakamura , and K . Tanaka .
Can social bookmarking enhance search in the web ? In Proc . Joint Conf . on Digital Libraries ( JCDL ) , pp . 107–116 . ACM/IEEE , 2007 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091204
