An Effective Semantic Search Technique using Ontology
Jihyun Lee
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology
Yuseong gu , Guseong dong Daejeon , Republic of Korea , hyunlee@islabkaistackr
305 701
Jun Ki Min
Korea University of
Technology and Education
Byeongcheon myeon
Chungnam , Republic of Korea ,
330 708 jkmin@kutackr
Chin Wan Chung
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology
Yuseong gu , Guseong dong Daejeon , Republic of Korea , chungcw@islabkaistackr
305 701
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a semantic search technique considering the type of desired Web resources and the semantic relationships between the resources and the query keywords in the ontology . In order to effectively retrieve the most relevant top k resources , we propose a novel ranking model . To do this , we devise a measure to determine the weight of the semantic relationship . In addition , we consider the number of meaningful semantic relationships between a resource and keywords , the coverage of keywords , and the distinguishability of keywords . Through experiments using real datasets , we observe that our ranking model provides more accurate semantic search results compared to existing ranking models . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement Keywords : Semantic Search , Ranking , Semantic Relationship , Ontology , Semantic Web 1 .
INTRODUCTION
It is common that the current keyword based search misses highly relevant pages and returns a lot of irrelevant pages for user requests , since the keyword based search is ignorant of the type of resources a user wants to get and the semantic relationships between the resources and keywords .
In order to effectively retrieve the most relevant top k resources in searching in the Semantic Web , [ 3 , 5 ] propose ranking models using the ontology which presents the meaning of resources and the relationships among the resources . These works determine the relevance based on the link analysis where the amount of relationships and the specificity of the relationships are considered , but it is insufficient for precise ranking . The ranking model in [ 5 ] does not consider the diversity of semantic relationships . The work in [ 3 ] depends on domain experts to determine the weights of all relationships in the instance level . Also , the query consisting of multiple keywords with different importance is not effectively handled .
In this paper , we propose an effective semantic search technique considering the diversity of semantic relationships . We propose a measure for weighting a semantic relationship . Based on this , we suggest a novel ranking model . 2 . PRELIMINARIES
In this section , we present some definitions for our work . Definition 1 . ( Schema ) Schema S is defined as <C , D , P> . C is the set of classes , D is the set of data types , and P is the set
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
Figure 1 : An example of ontology of properties . For d ∈ C , r ∈ C ∪ D , there can be a property p(d , r ) ∈ P . For each property p(d , r ) ∈ P , d is the domain and r is the range of p . p−1(r , d ) is the inverse property of p(d , r ) .
Definition 2 . ( Instance Graph ) An instance confined to a schema S = <C , D , P> is defined as a directed graph G = <V , E> . V is the set of resources . [ c ] indicates the set of instances of c ∈ C ∪ D . For each v ∈ V , v ∈ [ c ] if v.type = c . E is the set of property instances . [ p(d , r ) ] denotes the set of instances of p(d , r ) ∈ P . For each e(vi , vj ) ∈ E , e(vi , vj ) ∈ [ p(d , r ) ] if e = p , vi ∈ [ d ] and vj ∈ [ r ] . vi is the subject and vj is the object of e .
Definition 3 . ( Semantic Path ) A semantic path sp is a sequence of properties p1(d1,r1 ) pm(dm , rm ) in a schema S = <C , D , P> where pi(di , ri ) ∈ P and ri and di+1 are the same class or have the same ancestor class ( excluding the root ) in the class hierarchy . An instance graph G confined to schema S can include matches of a semantic path in S . A match of the semantic path is a sequence of instances of properties , which is called semantic path instance . For example , in Figure 1 , writtenBy−1(Professor , Publication ) hasTitle(Publication , String ) is a semantic path , and writtenBy−1 ( prof1 , pub1 ) hasTitle(pub1,‘top kWeb’ ) is a semantic path instance of the semantic path .
Definition 4 . ( Semantic Search ) Given an instance graph G , the semantic search is to find an answer A for query Q = <T , K> . For each resource a ∈ A , there should be at least one semantic path instance from resource a to data value s in G where a ∈ [ T ] and value s contains k ∈ K . IP ( a , k ) denotes the set of such semantic path instances from a to s including keyword k . 3 . WEIGHTING FOR SEMANTIC PATH
A semantic path consists of one or more properties . Therefore , in order to measure the weight of a semantic path , we should be able to determine the weight of each property in the semantic path . The weight of a property is determined according to ( 1 ) the amount of information contained in the property , and ( 2 ) the characterizability between domain and range of the property .
In the information theory , the information content of an event x can be quantified by the occurrence probability of x . As x occurs rarely , x has more information . Based on this , the amount of information contained in a property p(d , r ) is computed by
I(p(d , r ) ) = − log2 pr(p(d , r ) )
( 1 ) where pr(p(d , r ) ) is the probability that a resource is a subject of the property p(d , r ) in an instance graph .
StudentProfessorPersonPublicationTopicwrittenByhasTitleinterestedIncitesubClassOfpropertygeneral propertyclassStringdata typehasNameprof1pub1topic1pub3‘Web’‘top k …Web’‘top k RDB’interestedInwrittenByhasTitlehasTitlecitehasTitletypetypetypetypeclassinstancepropertyinstancedatavalue[Schema][Schema][Instance Graph][Instance Graph]WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091057 In the information theory , the amount of information that one random variable contains about another random variable is measured by Mutual Information [ 1 ] . To measure the characterizability between the domain and the range , we adapt the mutual information . The mutual information between the domain d and the range r for a property p(d , r ) is computed by o∈r s∈d
M I(p(d , r ) ) = pr(s , o ) · log2( pr(s , o ) pr(s)pr(o )
)
( 2 ) where the sample space is [ p(d , r) ] , pr(s ) is the probability that e ∈ [ p(d , r ) ] has s as its subject and pr(o ) is the probability that e ∈ [ p(d , r ) ] has o as its object . Also , pr(s , o ) is the probability that e ∈ [ p(d , r ) ] has s and o as its subject and object at the same time .
By using Equation ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , we can compute the weight of a property p(d , r ) as follows : w(p(d , r ) ) = α · I(p(d , r ) ) + β · M I(p(d , r ) )
( 3 ) where 0 < α , β < 1 and I and MI are normalized to be in the same range [ 0 , 1 ] .
As the length of a semantic path gets longer , the relevance between the source and the destination decreases . Thus , considering the loss of the relevance due to the growing of the length of a semantic path , the weight of the semantic path sp is computed as follows :
( cid:161 )
( cid:162 ) · δlength(sp)−1 w(p(d , r ) )
W ( sp ) =
( 4 ) p(d,r)∈sp where length(sp ) indicates the number of properties in sp , and δ is an attenuation parameter which is tunable from 0 to 1 . 4 . RANKING FOR SEMANTIC SEARCH three relevance criteria are considered . ip∈IP ( a,ki ) W ( ip ) .
In the novel ranking model proposed in this paper , the following • The number of meaningful semantic path instances : We regard resources which have many meaningful semantic path instances directed to keywords as more relevant resources . The meaningfulness of the semantic path instance is represented by the weight of the semantic path obtained by Equation ( 4 ) . The relevance of a resource a for a keyword ki is computed by R(a , ki ) = • The coverage of keywords : A user prefers results covering all keywords . To reflect this preference , we apply the extended boolean model [ 4 ] to our ranking model . A resource is mapped to a point in an n dimensional space [ 0 , 1]n where n is the number of keywords . Each dimension represents the relevance of a resource to the corresponding keyword . The relevance of a resource a is in inverse proportion to the distance from the ideal position [ 1 , , 1 ] to the point of a . • The distinguishability of keyword : A resource having semantic paths to distinguishable keywords is more relevant than a resource having semantic paths to undistinguishable keywords . The distinguishability of keyword ki , D(ki ) , is the inverse of the ratio of data values containing ki to entire data values in the instance graph .
Based on the above mentioned three factors , the relevance score of resource a for keywords K is computed by Rank(a , K ) = 1 − [
1≤i≤|K|(D(ki ) · ( 1 − N R(a , ki)))p
1 p
]
( 5 )
1≤i≤|K| D(ki)p
First , N R(a , ki ) is the normalized R(a , ki ) in the range [ 0 , 1 ] , which reflects the the number of meaningful semantic path instances . Second , the Lp norm distance form of the above model reflects the coverage of keywords , and p ( ≥ 1 ) controls the strength of ANDsemantics among keywords . Finally , the distinguishability of keyword , D(ki ) , is utilized as the weight of a keyword reflecting the importance of the keyword in the model .
Figure 2 : The accuracy for top k results ( k = 10 and 20 ) 5 . SEMANTIC SEARCH PROCESSING
Our semantic search for query < T , K > is performed according to the following four procedures : 1 ) Extract the set of semantic paths SP from T to K in a schema . 2 ) Find the set of resources R each of which reaches some keywords in K through SP in an instance graph . 3 ) For each resource ri ∈ R , compute Rank(ri , K ) . 4 ) Provide ri in the descending order of Rank(ri , K ) . 6 . EXPERIMENTS
In the experiments , we evaluate the accuracy of our ranking model , Semantic Search Rank ( SSR ) , in comparison with existing methods RQR [ 5 ] and HAS [ 3 ] . We use two kinds of ontologies from two real datasets : DBLP ( http://dblpuni trierde/xml/ ) and IMDB ( http://wwwimdbcom/interface ) Figure 2 shows the accuracy of three ranking models for five representative top k queries over each ontology . We use F measure ( = 2∗precision∗recall precision+recall ) [ 2 ] to measure the accuracy . Also , it includes the average of the accuracy for 20 queries over DBLP ontology ( ie , AVG20 ) and 15 queries over IMDB ontology ( ie , AVG15 ) . The tunable parameters of SSR in our experiments are set as follows : α = 0.2 and β = 0.8 in Equation ( 3 ) , δ = 0.6 in Equation ( 4 ) , and p = 3 in Equation ( 5 ) . As we can observe from the experimental results , SSR outperforms the existing ranking models in general . 7 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , for an effective semantic search , we proposed a new ranking model considering the diversity of semantic relationships and the coverage of keywords with various importance to determine the relevance . The experimental results showed that the accuracy of our new ranking model was better than those of other raking models using the ontology . Acknowledgment This research was supported by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy , Korea , under the Information Technology Research Center support program supervised by the Institute of Information Technology Advancement . ( grant number IITA 2008 C1090 0801 0031 ) 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . M . Cover . Elements of Information Theory . John Wiley and Sons ,
INC . , New York , NY , USA , 1991 .
[ 2 ] C . D . Manning , P . Raghavan , and H . Schutze . Introduction to
Information Retrieval . Cambridge University Press , 2008 .
[ 3 ] C . Rocha , D . Schwabe , and M . P . de Aragao . A Hybrid Approach for
Searching in the Semantic Web . In Proc . of WWW , pages 374–383 , May 2004 .
[ 4 ] G . Salton , E . A . Fox , and H . Wu . Extended Boolean Information
Retrieval . Communications of ACM , 26(12):1022–1036 , December 1983 .
[ 5 ] N . Stojanovic , R . Studer , and K . Stojanovic . An Approach for the Ranking of Query Results in the Semantic Web . In Proc . of ISWC , pages 500–516 , October 2003 .
00102030405060708091DQ1DQ2DQ3DQ4DQ5AVG20DQ1DQ2DQ3DQ4DQ5AVG20IQ1IQ2IQ3IQ4IQ5AVG15IQ1IQ2IQ3IQ4IQ5AVG15top 10top 20top 10top 20DBLPIMDBAccuracy ( F)ROAHASSSRWWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Wednesday , April 22 , 20091058
