SGPS : A Semantic Scheme for Web Service Similarity
Sourish Dasgupta
Satish Bhat
Yugyung Lee
University of Missouri – Kansas City
University of Missouri – Kansas City
University of Missouri – Kansas City
5100 Rockhill Rd .
Kansas City , MO 64110 leeyu@umkc.edu
5100 Rockhill Rd .
Kansas City , MO 64110 sdwb7@umkc.edu
5100 Rockhill Rd .
Kansas City , MO 64110 ssbmvd@umkc.edu
ABSTRACT Today ’s Web becomes a platform for services to be dynamically interconnected to produce a desired outcome . It is important to formalize the semantics of the contextual elements of web services . In this paper , we propose a novel technique called Semantic Genome Propagation Scheme ( SGPS ) for measuring similarity between semantic concepts . We show how SGPS is used to compute a multi dimensional similarity between two services . We evaluate the SGPS similarity measurement in terms of the similarity performance and scalability .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Web based services . General Terms Measurement , Design , Theory Keywords Context , Web Services , Similarity , Semantics
1 . INTRODUCTION A major contribution of recent Web research is the hosting of a platform where cross organizational computing devices can host loosely coupled component services in a dynamic manner to produce a desired outcome . However , the intrinsic complexity of many other environmental factors ( like uncertainty in user preferences , user context , network health ) makes it necessary for web service composition to be context aware . We stress that apart from functional descriptions web services need context descriptions as well . Hence , it is important to formalize the context semantics of web services . At the heart of such semantic formalism lies the notion of service similarity . We propose a novel technique for measuring similarity between semantic concepts . The technique is inspired by the biological genome model and is based on the principle that semantic concepts are identified with three sets of properties : ( i ) properties that are inherited from ancestors , ( ii ) properties that are inherited but changed to more specific ones , and ( iii ) properties that are newly added . We have named this model as Semantic Genome Propagation Scheme ( SGPS ) . 2 . SGPS : FORMAL FOUNDATION Semantic similarity measures have been studied extensively for the last two decades . Most previous researches focused on two perspectives : ( i ) similarity based on subsumption path lengths between two comparable concepts [ 1 ] and ( ii ) similarity based
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . on information content of the parent of two comparable concepts [ 2 ] . However , the role of the properties contained by the concepts was largely underestimated [ 1 3 ] . This causes the problem of false positive . Although the semantic distances between a concept and its ancestors are usually greater than the distances with its siblings yet this is true only under certain circumstances . In SGPS a concept is defined as a vector in an application specific n dimensional space . To compute the similarity between two concept vectors we introduce the concept of genes . A single gene represents a particular dimension of a concept vector . These genes together form the genome of that vector . For an n dimensional concept vector we will have n number of genes in the concept genome . Each gene may have several Genome Factors ( denoted as GF ) that characterize the gene . We can perceive these genome factors as concepts that help us to understand the gene completely . In this way we can represent a service concept by its functional profile and by its context . Hence , the service genome constitutes two sets of genes : ( i ) functional gene ( Input , Output , Pre conditions , and Result ) ( ii ) contextual gene ( Spatial Context , Temporal Context , Actor Context , Object Context , Background Context , and Information Context ) . For any particular gene of a concept genome , the different constituent GFs may have different relative importance for that concept . Even for a particular service this relative importance may vary with time because of newly added importance to some relatively less important GFs . For any domain ontology a concept genome is passed along from a parent concept to its children concepts ( inheritance ) . This genome may undergo two operations : mutation and addition . However , in SGPS , inheritance is not only the acquiring of properties from one ’s parents but also adding its own properties ( including mutated and added properties ) to the inherited GF . A mutation occurs when some of the inherited GFs in a particular gene are changed to more specific concepts . There may be several such mutations in a single inheritance . The genome may also have additions in its contents . An addition occurs when some completely new GFs are added to a particular gene . Just like mutations we may have multiple additions to a particular concept genome . A concept genome may undergo extensive diversification as it is distributed down an ontology hierarchy . The higher the degree of this diversification the greater is the semantic distance between any two concept vectors . Any comparison between two concept vectors their corresponding genes and computing the semantic distance between the individual GFs therein . For any concept ontology the root concept is assigned a genome . Formally , a gene within such genome is represented as a collection of three GF sets : mutated , additional , and inherited . The first two sets are collectively called the Diversity Factor ( DF ) because they contribute to the genetic diversification of a concept vector . The is done by singling out each of
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091125 third set ( ie the inherited GF ) is important because it provides the ancestral genes into a concept vector and thus increases the chance of similarity to another concept vector that has part of or all of the ancestral genes . Hence , we add this set to the DF to get a Cumulative Diversity Factor ( CDF ) for each concept vector in the hierarchy . A particular gene may be distributed over all the three GF sets . Similarity between GFs is computed based on a generic upper ontology . For each of the GF hierarchies , we adopt and modify the prime number based encoding technique [ 4 ] . GF Distance ( denoted as GF dist ) is used to measure the semantic distance between two GFs of a particular gene common in two concept genomes . The distance is used as an inverse weight for the semantic match that may be discovered between two such GFs . The GF distance is calculated by adding up all the primes in the codes of each of the GF concepts and then subtracting that from each other . Such a comparison is not valid if these concepts do not have any common hierarchy . Contribution by the DF to the diversification of the genes of a concept genome is the foremost . We argue that as mutation is just a change in the inherited GFs , the mutated GF set does not contribute much to this diversification in comparison to the additional GF set . In order to capture the importance factors , we use a pre defined set of weights ( α , β , γ ) for additional , mutated and inherited GFs respectively such that α > β > γ , that sum up to 1 . We hereby propose two operators : ( i ) Gene Intersection ( ⊖ ) and ( ii ) Gene Union ( ⊕ ) . An intersection may occur over the GF x for a particular GF set if either there is an exact semantic match between two GFs defined in the hierarchy x or there is a subsumption between them ( tested by the finding whether their codes divide each other or not ) . For any two concept vectors ci and cj , the Gene Intersection over the GF x is given as follows : CDFx(ci ) ⊖ CDFx(cj ) = [ φmGF ∩GFx φaGF where φmGF x is the additional GF set for the GF x , φiGF x is the inherited GF set for the GF x , ∩GFx is the intersection over the GF x for a particular GF set . Similarly , for any two concepts ci and cj , the Gene Union over the GF x is given as follows : CDFx(ci)⊕CDFx(cj ) = [ φmGF φaGF x(ci ) ∪ φiGF We now define the similarity of two concept vectors ci and cj over the GF x as follows : Simx(ci , cj)=1/(1+w̅x(ci,cj))×[|CDFx(ci ) ⊖ CDFx(cj)|╱|CDFx(ci ) ⊕ CDFx(cj)| ] , where , |rc x| is the number of relations a concept c has with the GF category x and w̅x(ci , cj ) = | ( |rci x| ╱ ∑x |rcj x|)2 | ( the weight difference factor for a particular GF category x ) . The overall similarity between two concepts ci and cj over a particular gene ‘z’ can be computed as follows : z Sim(ci , cj ) = ∑n(z ) of GF categories that constitute the gene z . The metric of Contextual Similarity measures the degree of closeness of two services in terms of their context information . We define the contextual similarity metric as follows : x(cj ) ] ∪ [ φiGF x is the mutated GF set for the GF x , φaGF x(ci ) ∪ φmGF x(cj ) ] x Simx(ci , cj ) , where n(z ) is the total number x(ci ) ∩GFx φmGF x(cj ) ] ∪ [ φaGF x(ci ) ∩GFx φiGF x(cj ) ] ∪ [ φaGF x(ci ) x| ╱ ∑x |rci x|)2 ( |rcj x(cj ) ] x(cj ) ] ∪ [ φiGF x(ci ) ∪
Simcon(si,sj)=∑p1/(1+w̅p(si,sj))×[|CDFp(si)⊖CDFp(sj)|/|CDFp(si )
⊕ CDFp(sj)| ] q|)2 | q|)2 ( |rsj q| ╱ ∑q |rsi
For grouping functionally similar candidate services , we now define the Functional Similarity metric as follows Simfunc(si,sj)=∑q1/(1+w̅q(si,sj))×[|CDFq(si)⊖CDFq(sj)|╱|CDFq( si ) ⊕ CDFq(sj)| ] and w̅q(si , sj ) = | ( |rsi q| ╱ ∑q |rsj 3 . EVALUATION The experimental platform was a machine with a CPU cycle of 1.4 GHz and a RAM of 2 GB . The performance is computed in terms of the average execution time for each of the three different ( functional , contextual , dependency ) for a random collection of service node pairs over 10 service networks . Computation of functional similarity is faster than that of contextual similarity . This is because contextual similarity has the highest number of intersection computation and hence , the highest summation overload for the contextual gene . similarity measurement types of
) c e s m
(   e m i t n u R
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Size of Genome
Functional 
Contextual
Figure 1 . SGPS Similarity Performance
4 . CONCLUSION In this paper we have discussed a novel technique for computing similarity between web services . We have evaluated its performance with respect to the service network size and the genome size of the service nodes . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This work has been partially supported by National Science Foundation ( IIS #0742666 ) . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Rada , et al . , “ Development and application of a metric on semantic nets ” , IEEE Transactions on Systems , Man , and Cybernetics , p . 19 , 1989 .
[ 2 ] P . Resnik , “ Semantic similarity in a taxonomy : An information based measure and its application to problems of ambiguity in natural language ” , Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , vol 11 , p . 95–130 , 1999 .
[ 3 ] G . Hirst , D . StOnge , “ Lexical chains as representation of context for the detection and correction of malaproprisms , in WordNet : An electronic lexical database ” , MIT Press . p . 305–332 , 1998 .
[ 4 ] D . Preuveneers , Y . Berbers , “ Prime numbers considered useful : ontology encoding for efficient subsumption testing ” . Department of Computer Science , KULeuven , Leuven , Belgium , 2006 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091126
