Search Result Re ranking Based on Gap between Search
Queries and Social Tags
Jun Yan1 Ning Liu1 Elaine Qing Chang2 Lei Ji1 Zheng Chen1
Microsoft Research Asia1
Sigma Center , 49 Zhichun Road
Beijing , 100190 , P . R . China
Microsoft Corporation2 One Microsoft Way Redmond , WA , USA
{junyan , ningl , leiji , zhengc}@microsoft.com elchang@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT Both search engine click through log and social annotation have been utilized as user feedback for search result re ranking . However , to our best knowledge , no previous study has explored the correlation between these two factors for the task of search result re ranking . In this paper , we show that the gap between search queries and social tags of the same web page can well reflect its user preference score . Motivated by this observation , we propose a novel algorithm , called Query Tag Gap ( QTG ) , to rerank search results for better user satisfaction . Intuitively , on one hand , the search users’ intentions are generally described by their queries before they read the search results . On the other hand , the web annotators semantically tag web pages after they read the content of the pages . The difference between users’ recognition of the same page before and after they read it is a good reflection of user satisfaction . In this extended abstract , we formally define the query set and tag set of the same page as users’ pre and postknowledge respectively . We empirically show the strong correlation between user satisfaction and user ’s knowledge gap before and after reading the page . Based on this gap , experiments have shown outstanding performance of our proposed QTG algorithm in search result re ranking .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Retrieval models
General Terms Algorithms , Performance .
Keywords Query log , Social tagging , Search result re ranking
1 . INTRODUCTION With the growing competition in the Web search market , to provide better search user satisfaction , the search result re ranking problem have attracted a lot of attention . Among them , one of the most commonly used algorithms is to utilize click through log as implicit user feedback [ 3 ] for search result re ranking . In some recent progress , using social annotation for search result ranking [ 2 ] has been validated to be effective as well . Though both the click through information and the social tags can independently reflect users’ knowledge on the corresponding search result web pages for ranking tasks , they are generated from different perspectives . For the former , it represents users’ knowledge before they read the clicked Web pages while the latter represents users’ knowledge after they read the corresponding pages . In this
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . work we define the search queries implied in the click through log as users’ pre knowledge of the Web pages , and the tags for Web pages as users’ post knowledge . The question we’d like to answer is : can the difference between users’ pre and post knowledge reflect users’ satisfaction of the search result web page ?
To answer this question , the contributions of this paper are : ( 1 ) We define search queries and tags as users’ pre and postknowledge of the web pages respectively . ( 2 ) Through studying the site search click through log from a Microsoft commercial website , we empirically show that the gap between users’ pre and post knowledge can well reflect user satisfaction . ( 3 ) We propose a novel and simple algorithm , called Query Tag Gap ( QTG ) , for search result re ranking based on the gap between users’ pre and post knowledge . To our best knowledge , this is the first work which considers the correlation between search queries and tags for search result re ranking . ( 4 ) Experiments on the search results of a commercial search engine well validated its effectiveness .
2 . MOTIVATIONAL OBSERVATIONS We collected 100 pages ( which we defined as assets ) from a Microsoft commercial website . These 100 assets were randomly sampled from the all assets on the site that have got more than 20 clicks in the site search click through log within a recent month . In addition , all of these 100 assets have received at least 5 times of explicit user ratings . In other words , at least 5 users have assigned a rating score to each of these assets . The score ranges from 1 to 5 where 1 means least satisfied and 5 means most satisfied . We asked 5 volunteers to read these assets and manually assign at least 5 tags for each asset based on their own understanding . We represent each asset by its search query terms and tag terms respectively in the Bag of Words model . In the simple preliminary study , we used the simple Jaccard distance to measure the distance between the query representation and tag representation of the same asset . Figure 1 gives the scatter plot of the averaged user rating score against the distance between queries and tags .
1
0.8
0.6 e c n a t s i D
0.4
0.2
0
1
2
3
Average score
4
5
Figure 1 . Scatter plot of the user satisfaction score against the distance between corresponding queries and social tags .
From this figure , we can see that for most of the assets , the distance changes almost linearly with the user rating score , which
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091197 reflects user satisfaction of the assets . For a given asset , the more satisfied it is by the users , the smaller distance will be between the query representation and the tag representation . This motivates us to explore the problem : Can we re rank the search results of search engines based on user satisfaction indicated by the gap between queries and social tags ?
3 . THE ALGORITHM In this Section , we propose a novel algorithm for search result reranking . Suppose we have a collection of web pages , which are indexed by a search engine , denoted as P={p1 , p2,…} . Let the collection of queries that resulted clicks on a page pi , be Qi={qi1 , qi2,…} and the tags that have been used to tag the page pi , be Ti={ti1 , ti2,…} . In Section 3.1 , we firstly define users’ pre and post knowledge of the same page pi by Qi and Ti respectively . In Section 3.2 , we introduce the detailed algorithm for search result re ranking .
3.1 Pre and Post Knowledge of Users We define the queries which have led clicks to a web page as the pre knowledge of users to this page .
Definition 1 : The pre knowledge of a web page pi is defined as the set of queries Qi , which have resulted user clicks to it , with the corresponding term distribution . We use D(Qi ) to represent the term distribution in Qi , ie the probability of each term to appear in Qi .
On the other hand , there are more and more web annotators who semantically express their understanding of a web page by social tags after they read the content of the page . We define the tags used as users’ post knowledge of the page .
Definition 2 : The post knowledge of a web page pi is defined as the set of tags Ti which are used to annotate the page with the corresponding term distribution . We use D(Ti ) to represent the term distribution in Ti , ie the probability of each team to be used to tag pi .
3.2 Search Result Re ranking The preliminary experiment introduced in Section 2 shows that the difference between users’ understanding of the same page before and after they read it is a good reflection of user satisfaction . This motivates us to consider the gap between the users’ pre and post knowledge for search result re ranking , which aims to better satisfy the search users . Given search query q , let Pr(q| Qi ) and Pr(q| Ti ) be the probability of search query set Qi and social tag set Ti . We use the difference between these two probabilities , ie
S( pi| q ) =| Pr(q| Qi) Pr(q| Ti)| ( 1 ) to calculate the penalty score of returning page pi as search results of the given query q . The remaining problem is how to estimate the conditional probabilities Pr(q| Qi ) and Pr(q| Ti ) . For simplicity , we assume all terms in the queries are independent . Suppose the query q consists of m terms , which are t1 , t2,… , tm , then we have ,
Pr(q| Qi ) = ࢣ
௠ ௝ୀଵ
2H ሺݐ୨ ܳ୧ሻ and Pr(q| Ti ) = ࢣ
௠ ௝ୀଵ
2H ሺݐ୨ ܶ୧ሻ
( 2 )
Through this way , we can assign a penalty score to each page for a given query q . Suppose the search results of q are pi , i=1,2,…,n . We propose to re rank the search results by S( pi| q ) in a increasing order .
4 . EXPERIMENTS In this Section , we show the experimental results of our proposed algorithm on re ranking the search results of a commercial search engine . We randomly selected 50 queries in the search engine query log . For each query , we collected the top 10 search results . All queries that have resulted clicks on these pages within a time range of one month were used to calculate user pre knowledge of these pages . The social tags of these pages that we collected from delicious were used to calculate the post knowledge of these pages . We asked 5 volunteers to score the search results from score “ 1 ” to “ 5 ” , where “ 5 ” means the best search result and “ 1 ” means the worst search result . The average score of each page is used as ground truth to rank the search results for these 50 sampled queries . The evaluation metrics we used the experiments are Precision at n ( P@n ) and Normalized Discount Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) [ 1 ] . The log based implicit user feedback for search result re ranking [ 3 ] , which is represented by “ Log ” , is utilized as a baseline for comparison purpose . The experimental results are shown in Table 1 , where “ baseline ” stands for the search results of our used search engine without reranking . From the results we can see that the proposed QTG algorithm can effectively re rank the search results . The statistical t test with the results 0.00073 and 0.00004 validated that the improvements of our proposed algorithm are significant in contrast to the two baseline algorithms . in
Table 1 . Results of search result re ranking
P@1
P@5
NDCG
Live
0.786
0.746
0.633
Log
0.799
0.753
0.642
QTG
0.806
0.765
0.659
5 . CONCLUSION In this work , we studied the site search click through log of a commercial website , which has user rating information , to show the fact that the gap between query and social tags’ distribution can well reflect the search users’ satisfaction . Motivated by this observation , we define the query distribution of a web page as the users’ pre knowledge of it . In the contrary , we define the social tag distribution of this web page as users’ post knowledge of it . Based on the gap between the pre and post knowledge , we propose a novel and simple algorithm , called QTG , for search result re ranking . Experimental results on real web search data well validated our proposed algorithm . In our next step work , we will explore how to integrate our algorithm together with other search result re ranking algorithms to achieve better performance .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Järvelin , K . and Kekalainen , J . IR evaluation methods for retrieving highly relevant documents . In Proceedings of the 23rd annual international ACM SIGIR conference ( 2000 ) , ACM Press , pp 41~48 .
[ 2 ] Shenghua B . , Guirong X . , Xiaoyuan W . , Yong Y . , Ben F . , Zhong S . , Optimizing web search using social annotations , in Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World Wide Web ( 2007 ) ACM Press , pp 501~510 .
[ 3 ] Thorsten J . , Laura G . , Bing P . , Helene H . , Geri G . , Accurately Interpreting Clickthrough Data as Implicit , in Proceedings of the 28th annual international ACM SIGIR conference ( 2005 ) , ACM Press , pp 154~161 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Friday , April 24 , 20091198
