Crosslanguage Blog Mining and Trend Visualisation
Andreas Juffinger
Know Center
Inffeldgasse 21A/II
Graz , Austria ajuffinger@know center.at
Elisabeth Lex Know Center
Inffeldgasse 21A/II
Graz , Austria elex@know center.at
ABSTRACT People use weblogs to express thoughts , present ideas and share knowledge , therefore weblogs are extraordinarily valuable resources , amongs others , for trend analysis . Trends are derived from the chronological sequence of blog post count per topic . The comparison with a reference corpus allows qualitative statements over identified trends . We propose a crosslanguage blog mining and trend visualisation system to analyse blogs across languages and topics . The trend visualisation facilitates the identification of trends and the comparison with the reference news article corpus . To prove the correctness of our system we computed the correlation between trends in blogs and news articles for a subset of blogs and topics . The evaluation corroborated our hypothesis of a high correlation coefficient for these subsets and therefore the correctness of our system for different languages and topics is proven .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Web Content , Blogosphere
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Weblogs are used to express thoughts , to present ideas and to share knowledge , so topics posted in weblogs are highly applicable for trend analysis . In our project for the Austria Press Agency ( APA)1 we aim to exploit the “ collective wisdom ” on the web in a sense of comparing the “ collective opinion ” against the “ news opinion ” . The blogosphere[1 ] presents an opportunity for us to understand the influence of certain news to the public and their propagation by analysing unsolicited feedback[3 ] in blogs . The ability to derive the propagation of news messages around the world makes it necessary to support different languages .
Related work in the field of blog mining , influence in blogs and propagation , and blog visualisation reveals a strong evidence that the blogosphere correlates with the real world based on quantitative and qualitative analysis . Drezner and Farrel were able to show[2 ] that there is an interdependency
1http://wwwapaat
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 . between blogs and the real world . BlogPulse2 , a blog analysis service , use the percentage of all posts concerned with a topic of interest to show trends in blogs . Google Trends3 , a visualisation of search patterns , depicts the number of times a topic occurs in Google News as a reference line .
2 . CROSSLANGUAGE BLOG MINING
Blog mining is defined as the integrated discipline of web and text mining , with refined techniques from social network analysis for the specific structure and content of weblogs . Our blog mining system implements a high performance web miner and can incrementally load and parse blog sites . During the blog parsing step we transform the unstructured content into a structured blog entry and thus prepare the content for our text mining unit . For this purpose we developed a semiautomatic blog site parser based on relative XPath queries[6 ] . From the structured blog entries we extract named entities and the language of the blog posts . Title and content of the posts are then indexed in language specific indices with Apache Lucene4 .
Figure 1 : Query Translation with Wikipedia
The applied methodology for crosslanguage retrieval is based on wikipedia statistics as outlined in [ 4 ] . The applied workflow for query translation for the blog mining system is shown in Figure 1 . Our primary data source is the German APA news corpus , so the query language is restricted to German . Each query is used to search in the German Wikipedia index . From the top fifty result documents we extract the linked Wikipedia articles for each target language ( English , French , Spanish and Italian ) . The result of this extraction step is a set of relevant articles in every language . These articles are then used to extract the statistically most significant terms for each language in the context of the query . The significant terms are then used to search the language specific blog index . 2http://blogpulse.com 3http://trendsgooglecom 4http://luceneapacheorg
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091149 3 . BLOG TREND VISUALISATION
The Blog Trend Visualisation is embedded in the APA Labs5 framework . APA Labs enables to search the news repository , to navigate results through result lists and to visually analyse search query results and article content[5 ] . The Blog Trend Visualisation shows APA articles and blog entries over a specific time period . Besides , the articles are also available in a tabular view . The Blog Trend Visualisation shows trends and language specific propagation over time at a glance and serves as a starting point for qualitative analyses . Figure 2 gives an example of the visualisation for the search query term “ Bush ” . The time period is limited to the last 60 days . Three days are then summarised and depicted by a coloured bar . Symbols for blog entries and articles are shown on the bar if results are present for this timeslot .
Figure 2 : Visualisation for query “ Bush ”
The blog entries are shown in the top section of the visualisation . Each blog entry is represented by an icon consisting of a green rectangle and a flag that denotes the language of the blog entry . In Figure 2 German , English , French and Italian blog entries are present . Each blog entry icon provides a tooltip that shows the title . The icon can also be used to navigate to the associated blog entry on the external blog site .
Orange circles represent the news articles in the bottom section of the visualisation . The size of a circle corresponds to the number of articles found to the search query for the particular timeslot . Clicking a circle restricts the articles in the tabular view to articles of the selected timeslot .
4 . EVALUATION
To evaluate our crosslanguage system we analysed the correlation between news articles and a selection of blogs . For a high correlation coefficient between news articles and blog entries the selection of blogs is crucial . Consequently , an automatic approach for blog selection was not an option . For the evaluation we handselected about 40 blogs by popularity , actuality and significance to guarantee that the blogs are active and current . Furthermore , only blogs dealing with current events were selected to guarantee a high correlation with news articles . The blogs are equally distributed over topics and languages because experiments also revealed that one single blog can glut the system and overlap the originally correlated functions . We evaluated the correlation for 15 person names , 15 location names , and 15 arbitrary query terms . Figure 3 shows the mean , standard deviation , minimum and maximum of the correlation between the number of blog entries and number of news articles .
The evaluation for different languages ( top image ) revealed that the system performs equally good for German , French
5http://wwwapaat/labs
Figure 3 : Correlation between News and Blogs and English , although the correlation for English was lower caused by the selection of blogs . For the multilanguage experiment we achieved a smaller standard deviation due to the higher number of blog entries in the input data ( all blog entries vs . blog entries in a specific language ) what led to a higher statistical robustness . The overall correlation coefficient for multilanguage retrieval was 0.55 ( bottom image , rightmost bars ) with a standard deviation of 0.18 , a maximum of 0.93 and minimum of 002 Consequently , the system is robust for the different types of query terms and languages .
5 . CONCLUSIONS
Our crosslanguage blog mining and trend visualisation system enables to identify trends in blogs in analogy to a news article repository . The visualisation shows the diffusion of a topic of interest and serves as a starting point for in depth qualitative analyses . Additionally , we are able to show a strong correlation between news articles and selected blogs across different languages . Consequently , we can continuously validate our system and identify topic drifts even in foreign languages .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Know Center is funded within the Austrian COMET Program under the auspices of the Austrian Ministry of VIT , Austrian Ministry of WA and by the State of Styria .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] N . Agarwal and H . Liu . Blogosphere : Research issues , tools , and applications . SIGKDD Explorations , 2008 . [ 2 ] D . Drezner and H . Farrell . The power and politics of blogs . In Proc . of the APSA Conf . , 2004 .
[ 3 ] N . Glance , M . Hurst , K . Nigam , M . Siegler ,
R . Stockton , and T . Tomokiyo . Deriving marketing intelligence from online discussion . In Proc . of the Knowldege Discovery and Data Mining Conf . , 2005 .
[ 4 ] A . Juffinger , R . Kern , and M . Granitzer . Crosslanguage retrieval based on wikipedia statistics . In Proc . of CLEF 2008 Workshop , Aarhus , 2008 .
[ 5 ] W . Kienreich , E . Lex , and C . Seifert . APA Labs : an experimental web based platform for the retrieval and analysis of news articles . Proc . of ICADIWT , 2008 .
[ 6 ] M . Kowalkiewicz , M . E . Orlowska , T . Kaczmarek , and
W . Abramowicz . Robust web content extraction . In Proc . of the 15th int . conf . on World Wide Web , 2006 .
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091150
