sMash : Semantic based Mashup Navigation for Data API Network
Bin Lu , Zhaohui Wu
College of Computer Science ,
Zhejiang University ,
Hangzhou , 310027 , China {lb , wzh}@zjueducn
Yuan Ni , Guotong Xie IBM China Research Lab ,
Zhongguancun Software Park ,
Beijing , 100193 , China
Chunying Zhou , Huajun Chen
College of Computer Science ,
Zhejiang University ,
Hangzhou , 310027 , China
{niyuan , xieguot}@cnibmcom
{cyzhou , huajunsir}@zjueducn
ABSTRACT With the proliferation of data APIs , it is not uncommon that users who have no clear ideas about data APIs will encounter difficulties to build Mashups to satisfy their requirements . In this paper , we present a semantic based mashup navigation system , sMash that makes mashup building easy by constructing and visualizing a real life data API network . We build a sample network by gathering more than 300 popular APIs and find that the relationships between them are so complex that our system will play an important role in navigating users and give them inspiration to build interesting mashups easily . The system is accessible at : http://wwwdartzjueducn/mashup Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation Keywords Mashup Navigation , Data API network , Social , Semantic 1 . INTRODUCTION An increasing number of information sources have published their data in the form of open data APIs which facilitate users to fetch public data as well as their personal data . If all the data APIs1 get together according to a certain kind of relationship to form a real life data API network , it will be a novel idea to solve difficulties many researches currently meet , such as mashups and linked data exploitation .
As an essential transformation of the Web [ 1 , 2 ] , mashups , which are typically drawn upon content retrieved from external data sources by means of data API calling , bring increasing interest to users . Even though current mashup tools [ 3 5 ] are sometimes efficient and convenient for mashup building , it makes users , especially non developers , feel confused when they have little knowledge about APIs .
Besides , our statistic result shows that because of the difficulty of being discovered and mastered by users , more than 4/5 data APIs are rarely used to build mashups even if they may supply more abundant information to satisfy users’ requirements . If we can visualize these APIs and their relationships , users may build more amazing mashups .
1 We regard data APIs as any information source that could offer their data in a RESTful way .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2009 , April 20–24 , 2009 , Madrid , Spain . ACM 978 1 60558 487 4/09/04 .
To make mashup building easier and more interesting , we propose to construct a data API network that enables users to build mashups by navigation . In this network , each API is represented as a node ; a link between two APIs means they have the mashupable relationship ; each mashup can be regarded as a path . Base on this vision , we present a semantic based mashup system , sMash which integrates conventional techniques : social community , semantic and collective intelligence . Our system has three main advantages : An automatic mashup navigation system : What users need to do is a little bit “ fuzzy match keyword search ” , and then the network is constructed and visualized around the matched APIs . The navigation is provided for users by an automatic link of mashupable APIs and a detailed mashup candidate recommendation . Besides , a global view of all the related data APIs and their relationships is presented to give users inspiration in deciding which APIs to use and how the path should be like .
A precise way to describe the metadata of API : a RDF model is proposed as the “ schema ” model of API to incorporate rich semantics of metadata .
An extendable and flexible real life data API network : sMash provides a user friendly “ schema ” editor to facilitate users to contribute the “ schemas ” . sMash keeps the definition of link between APIs configurable , which makes it easy for us to focus on semantic data search by reconstructing the network to exploit more data and links in the future .
2 . MASHUP ON DATA API NETWORK There are three main steps for providing mashup navigation for data API network : ( a ) Data collection . ( b ) Data API network construction candidate recommendation . and visualization .
( c ) Mashup
Data collection : Until now , we have analyzed and described more than 300 APIs using the “ schema ” editor in order to construct a sample network . the
To describe the data content , we bring idea of microformats to predefine the frequently used semantic data types , eg , “ geo ” , “ photo ” and “ event ” , and provide a data type editor to enable users to add new data types if they cannot find a proper one from the predefined data types . “ Schema ” editor , data type editor and the “ schema ” model are illustrated in figure 1 .
Data API network construction and visualization : The data API network is constructed and visualized in the following three steps :
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091133 Figure 1 . Overview of sMash Implementation
Step 1 : Discover loosely links . Let Node 1 , Node 2 be two nodes ; API 1 and API 2 be one API of Node 1 and Node 2 respectively . Node 1 can loosely link to Node 2 if data types of output data of API 1 match data types of required input data of API 2 . This means two nodes are mashupable on the basis of semantic data types and we find that approximately 51 % of the links is meaningful .
Step 2 : Remove the meaningless loosely links . We make use of tags and categories of APIs to refine the link ’s definition and extracted the meta information , eg , tags and data APIs each mashup used , of roughly 4100 existing mashups from ProgrammableWeb and Yahoo Pipes2 . By virtue of collective intelligence , we clustered the tags that may be mashupable and built a mashupable tag model . If two nodes can be loosely linked , we check whether their tags are mashupable , if true , a link is added . Whenever user contributes a data API , sMash will search the dataset and record all the linkable nodes using above two steps .
Step 3 : Visualize the network in the form of graph . sMash does a breadth first search starting from user specified nodes and ending in three depth level to collect the linkable nodes . Considering each mashup as a path , we found that about 80 % of 4100 existing mashup depth was no more than 3 , so we decided to make the depth level of the breadth first search be 3 . In this graph , vetexes and edges represent nodes and links respectively . The main part of figure 1 shows a visualized network around flickr . input and output data} , as
Mashup candidate recommendation : sMash shows users a sorted list of mashupable APIs according to their selection in the form of {Data API , type [ mashup from or mashup to ] , mashupable in recommendation part of figure 1 . To recommend the most related APIs first , we make a mashupable evaluation model
2 We developed an extraction engine to extract 3358 existing mashups from ProgrammableWeb , and 800 from Yahoo! Pipes . illustrated based on loosely links ; mashupable tags model and user behaviors .
User scenario : Suppose a user has no clear ideas about APIs , he knows a mashup source called flickr . So he starts from flickr , and then sMash will show him a global view of all the mashupable paths around flickr , navigate him which way to go next and remind him what his mashup currently looks like by means of data flow preview . All he needs to do is to select his interesting nodes to form a mashup path and set some key parameters , eg , his flickr id and search term of the photos .
A brief analysis of data API network : In this network composed of more than 300 APIs , the total number of links is about 6500 , the average number for each API is 21 and more than 55 % of APIs have over 30 links . With the growth of the network , the links will be more complex . 3 . CONCLUSION AND ONGOING WORK We bring the idea of data API network into mashups and implement a semantic based mashup navigation system which aims at facilitating all the users to build interesting mashups easily . Currently , we are improving mashup recommendation to give users a more intelligent navigation . In the future , to exploit more interesting data and links , we intend to focus on semantic data search based on this real life data API network . We believe this work may bring semantic data search into a wider field . 4 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work is funded by Zhejiang University and IBM CRL joint project called social enabled semantic data mashup , NO . 2006AA01A123 , NO.51306030101 and NoNSFC60525202 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Butler . Mashups mix data into global service . Nature ,
439(5):6–7 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] A . Jhingran . Enterprise information mashups : Integrating information simply . In VLDB , pages 3–4 , 2006 .
[ 3 ] Microsoft Popfly : http://wwwpopflycom/ [ 4 ] QEDWiki : http://wwwalphaworksibmcom/tech/qedwiki [ 5 ] Yahoo! Pipes : http://pipesyahoocom
WWW 2009 MADRID!Poster Sessions : Thursday , April 23 , 20091134
