How Shall We Catch People ’s Concerns in Micro blogging ?
Heng Gao , Qiudan Li , Hongyun Bao , Shuangyong Song State Key Laboratory of Management and Control for Complex Systems
Institute of Automation , Chinese Academy of Sciences，Beijing 100190，China {heng.gao , qiudan.li , hongyun.bao , shuangyongsong}@iaaccn
ABSTRACT In micro blogging , people talk about their daily life and change minds freely , thus by mining people ’s interest in micro blogging , we will easily perceive the pulse of society . In this paper , we catch what people are caring about in their daily life by discovering meaningful communities based on probabilistic factor model ( PFM ) . The proposed solution identifies people ’s interest from their friendship and content information . Therefore , it reveals the behaviors of people in micro blogging naturally . Experimental results verify the effectiveness of the proposed model and show people ’s social life vividly . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Application – Data mining , H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Information filtering General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation . Keywords Micro blogging , probabilistic factor model , user communities
1 . INTRODUCTION Nowadays , we’re seeing micro blogging growing rapidly , and it is playing important roles in our social life [ 1 , 2 ] . In China , Sinaweibo , a representative micro blogging system that is similar to Twitter , is getting popular among people of all ages . People are fond of using it to know what ’s happening around them : they talk about their daily life , follow their interested people , forward their interested tweets , and so on . All of the above behaviors reflect people ’s interest from different angles . But how do we know exactly what people are caring about with the popular social media in a unified way ? In general , people may just care about a certain number of topics and want to be involved in the community where they share similar interest . Thus , it ’s necessary to mine such valid meaningful communities to characterize people ’s behavior in micro blogging . Meanwhile , people can utilize it to find their most concerning topics and most interestrelated friends . In this paper , we propose a unified solution to help people find such valuable communities . Typically , in micro blogging , people with similar interest may post on the similar topics . Besides , if user A is interested in user B , A may follow B , then A will easily capture what tweets B has posted , by commenting on and retweeting B ’s tweets , A will get convenient access to communicating with B . Existing studies have mainly focused on finding community structure based on user content relationship or users’ friendship with each other , respectively [ 3 , 4 ] . Although these approaches are beneficial , it may bring better performance when these information together . As probabilistic factor model provides a
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . integrating all natural way to combine multiple resources together , in this paper we propose a community mining method based on probabilistic factor model to discover meaningful communities . In the following of the paper , we will illustrate our method in detail , along with the interesting community mining results .
Fig 1 The framework of mining meaningful user communities
2 . METHOD The framework of our model is shown in Fig 1 . We define a meaningful user community as a group containing people who form close friendship during their participation of particular topics . Our community discovery model firstly constructs users’ friendship matrix and user content profile to represent users’ interest from different angles , then , the latent community dimensions are extracted simultaneously from the resource above to obtain users’ interest distribution , via the extracted matrices , we will easily catch people ’s concerns with a macro perspective . User Interest Matrices Construction In Sina weibo , posting tweets on their interested topics and following people who they are interested in are two main manners for users to represent their concerns , which reflect their interest . Hence , we refer to the usertopic matrix T and users’ mutual social network matrix C respectively , as users’ different interest representation . Noticing that T∈Rm×n , C∈Rm×m , where m , n denote the amount of users and topics , respectively . Every element Tij in matrix T represents the frequency user i has posted on topic j . Meanwhile , in matrix C we set Cpq =1 when user p has followed user q , otherwise , Cpq =0 . In this way , we formulate the multiple resources of Sina weibo in order to mine meaningful user communities effectively . Latent User Communities Extraction Based on the user interest matrices C and T , we employ the probabilistic factor model proposed in [ 5 ] , to capture the underlying close relationship between users and the latent communities . As illustrated in Fig 1 , we need to find the best low dimensional matrices U , V and Z , such that C≈ UZT , T≈ UVT , where U , Z are the low dimensional
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France505 user latent feature space with matrix size m×d , and V denotes the low dimensional topic latent feature space with matrix size n×d , in which d represents the community dimensionality . By introducing two Gamma parameters α and β , we constrain the elements in the extracted latent feature space non negative , which will make our community mining results well grounded , then we turn the probabilistic factor model into the optimization problem of maximizing the following generalized objective function : ( 1 ) ZpVpUpYTpXCpL =
) βαβαβα
( )
,
( )
,
( )
(
( )
, where X = UZT , Y = UVT , in this way , we can find the best lowdimensional matrices U , V and Z with the partial derivative of the objective function ( 1 ) . Meaningful User Communities Discovery After we get the extraction results , it ’s easy to mine meaningful user communities : Each element uik ( k = 1 , , d ) in U encodes the preference of user i to latent community k , and each vjk in V can be interpreted as the affinity of topic j to the latent community k . The advantages of our model lie in : ( i ) It unifies the user following relationship and user content information simultaneously , which can help us find the meaningful communities effectively . ( ii ) We can regulate the weight of matrices C and T conveniently , thus helping us balance the biased impact of noises on the latent community discovery . ( iii ) By leading in the Gamma distribution parameters α and β , we make elements in the user community matrices non negative , which will make our experimental results more explainable and meaningful . 3 . EXPERIMENTS 3.1 Dataset and Parameter Settings To evaluate the performance of our community mining model , we build dataset including user following relationship and usercontent information with time interval of 16 days from October 29th , 2011 to November 13th , 2011 . After removal of users who post less than one tweet per day , we get 1879 users and 1640 topics . The influence parameter c was empirically set to be 0.5 to evenly weight the matrix C and matrix T . We also tune the parameter d which denotes the latent community dimension size from 4 to 30 , and find the best performance at d=12 eventually . As to the Gamma distribution parameters α and β , we set them as the best performance value of 10 , 0.02 respectively . 3.2 Results and Discussions To demonstrate the validity of the proposed model , non negative matrix factorization ( NMF ) method is conducted as the baseline , which only considers the user content information . Looking into the community mining results shown in Table 1 , we delightedly find that our model reveals more interesting phenomena of people ’s concerns in micro blogging : First of all , our method obtains more personalized clustering results , as shown in part I , both models mine the user community which concerns the topic of South Korea Street Shot very much , besides , our model successfully takes in people who focus on South Korean clothing that often appears on the South Korea Street Shot . Secondly , our method merges user communities whose topics of concern are very close , as shown in part II , two separate user communities concerning similar leisure topics show up through NMF approach , however , considering users’ close friendship , our method them . Thirdly , our method mines reasonably merges the meaningful community which can’t be mined with NMF relying on user content information , seeing Part III , our method mines people who care the Chinese drama The Rhino in Love very much , which is very popular but doesn’t show up through NMF approach . Thus , by integrating users’ interest of different aspects , we find more meaningful user communities , which will help us catch people ’s concerns better in micro blogging .
Table 1 . Community mining results in micro blogging
Interesting Phenomena
Part I
Part II
Part III
People ’s Concerns
NMF Based Model Our Integrating Model
South Korea Street Shot
Hey Gossip | Today ’s Fun
South Korea Street Shot & South Korean Clothing Hey Gossip & Today ’s Fun
Null
The Rhino in Love
Besides , we use the mean value of soft modularity metric Qs and users’ cosine similarity based on content information to evaluate our community mining results . The higher mean value μ means the closer friendship and closer topic interest of people falling into the same community . Table 2 shows the performance of our method compared to the NMF based model .
Table 2 . Performance evaluation on community mining results
Evaluation Metric
NMF Based Model
Our Unified Model
μ
0.1211
0.2718
From Table 2 , we can see that our unified model outperforms the baseline NMF based model , which only considers the usercontent information . The results reveal the validity of catching people ’s concerns from their multi interest distribution . It is due to our model could contain more valuable latent clustering information than the baseline . 4 . CONCLUSION In this paper , we propose a PFM based community discovery method by mining people ’s interest from their friendship network and content information . Preliminary experiments have proved the validity and effectiveness of our approach . The interesting clustering results will help us understand people ’s concerns and feel the pulse of our society easily . In the future , we would like to make advertising recommendations based on our existing work in micro blogging , which will be very promising and interesting . This research is supported by the NNSFC project 61172106 and the BJNSF project 4112062 . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Singh , VK , Gao , M . , Jain , R . 2010 . Situation Detection and Control
Using Spatiotemporal Analysis of Microblogs . In WWW’10 , pp . 1181 1182 .
[ 2 ] Wu , S . , Hofman , JM , Mason , WA , Watts , DJ 2011 . Who Says
What to Whom on Twitter . In WWW’11 , pp . 705 714 .
[ 3 ] Lin , Y . , Sun , J . , Castro , P . , Konuru , R . , Sundaram , H . , Kelliher , A . 2009 . MetaFac : Community Discovery via Relational Hypergraph Factorization . In SIGKDD ’09 , pp . 527 536 .
[ 4 ] Psorakis , I . , Roberts , S . , Ebden , M . 2011 . Overlapping Community Detection using Bayesian Nonnegative Matrix Factorization . Phys . Rev . E 83 , 066114 ( 2011 ) .
[ 5 ] Ma , H . , Liu , C . , King , I . , Lyu , MR 2011 . Probabilistic Factor
Models for Web Site Recommendation . In SIGIR’11 , pp265 274
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France506
