Partisan Scale
Sedat Gokalp Computer Science
Arizona State University
SedatGokalp@asuedu
Hasan Davulcu Computer Science
Arizona State University
HasanDavulcu@asuedu
ABSTRACT US Senate is the venue of political debates where the federal bills are formed and voted . Senators show their support/opposition along the bills with their votes . This information makes it possible to extract the polarity of the senators . We use signed bipartite graphs for modeling debates , and we propose an algorithm for partitioning both the senators , and the bills comprising the debate into binary opposing camps . Simultaneously , our algorithm scales both the senators and the bills on a univariate scale . Using this scale , a researcher can identify moderate and partisan senators within each camp , and polarizing vs . unifying bills . We applied our algorithm on all the terms of the US Senate to the date for longitudinal analysis and developed a web based interactive user interface wwwPartisanScalecom to visualize the analysis .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database applications ] : Data mining ; H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Clustering
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Community discovery , Link Analysis , Partitioning , Ranking , Scaling , HITS , Signed Bipartite Graphs , Spectral Clustering
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The United States has a bicameral legislature that comprises the US Senate as the upper house , and the US House of Representatives . The terms of the US Senate last for two years , and the senators serve three terms ( six years ) each . The terms are staggered in such a way that approximately one third of the seats are up for election every two years .
The Senate meets in the United States Capitol in Washington , DC to form and debate on motions , or bills . When debates conclude , the bill in question is put to a vote , where senators respond either ’Yea’ ( in favor of the bill ) or ’Nay’ ( against the bill ) . For most of the bills , only the total num
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . ber of ’Yea’ and ’Nay’ votes are recorded , except for the roll call votes . According to The Library of Congress1 ,
A roll call vote guarantees that every Member ’s vote is recorded , but only a minority of bills receive a roll call vote .
The current political party system in the United States is a two party system , which suggests a bipolar nature for both the senators and the bills ; such that , there exists two polarized camps of senators that oppose each others views , and two sets of bills that polarize the senators . It can be presumed that these camps would purely split according to the political parties of the senators , or the political parties of the sponsors of the bills . Although this is true to a certain extent , our analysis show that the actual behaviours can be different for a minority .
Senators show their support/opposition along the bills with their votes . This information makes it possible to extract the polarity of the senators . We use signed bipartite graphs for modeling the opposition , and we used our previous work ANCO HITS algorithm for partitioning both the senators , and the bills into two polarized camps . Simultaneously , our algorithm scales both the senators and the bills on a univariate scale . Using this scale , a researcher can identify moderate and partisan2 senators within each camp , and polarizing vs . unifying bills .
Partitioning and scaling help a researcher to better understand the structure of political debates in the Senate . While partisan ends of a scale may represent senators with irreconcilable viewpoints , moderate senators may represent viewpoints that are more amenable to engage in a constructive dialog through a set of unifying issues . Moderates may sympathize with some of the claims and grievances of the other side . Longitudinal analysis using our proposed algorithms could reveal interesting dynamics , such as , moderates from opposing camps could be in the process of forming a coalition by making the necessary compromises to reach a consensus .
Major contributions of this paper are : ( 1 ) a modification of our previous algorithm ANCO HITS , to propagate the scores on a signed bipartite graph to solve the partitioning and scaling problems described above ; ( 2 ) applying the algorithm on 112 terms of the US Senate for longitudinal analysis ; ( 3 ) developing a web based interactive user interface to visualize the analysis .
1http://thomaslocgov/home/rollcallvoteshtml 2Partisanship can be defined as being devoted to or biased in support of a party .
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France349 Figure 1 : Perfectly polarized bipartite graph
Figure 3 : Vote matrix for the 111th US Senate after scaling with ANCO HITS
Figure 2 : Partisan vs . Moderate senators
2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION
There are many applications [ 5 , 4 , 7 , 1 , 3 ] for recognizing political orientation , and bipartite graphs [ 2 , 6 , 8 ] have been widely used to represent relationships between two sets of entities . We use bipartite graphs to model the relationships between the senators and the bills . We use signed edges to represent the votes , where positive edges denote support , and negative edges denote opposition on a bill by a senator . Given
• G = ( U ∪ V , A ) is a bipartite graph consisting of sena tors U and bills V , and a signed vote matrix A
• U = {u1 , u2 , . . . , um} , a set of m senators • V = {v1 , v2 , . . . , vn} , a set of n bills • A ∈ Rm×n , where aij represents the vote of senator ui on bill vj
Find • X = ( x1 , x2 , . . . , xm ) , where xi ∈ R is the assigned value of the senator ui
• Y = ( y1 , y2 , . . . , yn ) , where yj ∈ R is the assigned value of the bill vj such that • xi value for a senator ui should be closer to the yj values of the bills that he supports , and further away from the yk values of the bills that he opposes . The magnitude of xi denotes the partisanship of the senators ui , and the magnitude of yj denote how polarizing the bill vj is . ie magnitudes closer to 0 meaning more moderate and larger magnitudes meaning more partisan .
Figure 1 depicts a perfectly polarized bipartite graph . The two axes X and Y represent the univariate scale for the senators and bills . The vertices to the right of zero have positive values , and the vertices to the left have negative values on the scale . A green solid line between a senator ui and a bill vj represents support , and a red dashed line represents opposition .
Figure 2 shows an example of two senators ; u1 being extreme and u2 being more moderate . u1 supports the bills of same polarity , and opposes the vertices of the opposite polarity . However , u2 has mixed support and opposition . Same relation holds between polarizing and unifying bills .
Although partitioning algorithms can be utilized to detect the polarity of senators and bills , it is not possible to distinguish partisans from moderates . Scaling overcomes this problem and makes it possible to compare two senators of same polarity . In this paper , we are not only able to compare pairs of senators , but also provide the exact locations on the scale , therefore providing valuable information about the shape of the distribution as well .
3 . ANCO HITS
In this study , we used a modified version of our previous work ANCO HITS . Algorithm 1 describes the steps of the ANCO HITS algorithm for the co scaling problem .
Data : Signed vote matrix A Result : Scale vectors X and Y Initiate X <0> = ( 1 , 1 , . . . , 1 ) ; Initiate Y <0> = ( 1 , 1 , . . . , 1 ) ; repeat
Update X ; Update Y ; until X vector converges ;
Algorithm 1 : Iterative update procedure for ANCO HITS
This research uses a different normalization scheme than the original ANCO HITS algorithm . The update functions for X and Y are modified such that the vectors X and Y would converge not only in direction , but also in value . x<k> i
= y<k> j
= n n j=1 j=1 aijy<k−1> j
|aijy<k−1> j
| m m i=1 i=1 i aijx<k> |aijx<k> i
( 1 )
|
The convergence values for X and Y vectors will satisfy
−1 ≤ xi , yj ≤ +1 .
Figure 3 represents the bipartite graph of the 111th US Senate data after scaling both the senate and the bills with ANCO HITS . The light green colored edges represent ’Yea’ votes , and dark red represents ’Nay’ votes . Similar to our motivating Figure 1 , this figure also shows partisan behavior in the 111th US Senate . u1 u2 u3 um 2 22um 1 um v1 v2 v3 vn 2 vn 1 vn X Y 0 u1 X Y 0 u2 X Y 0 WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France350 Figure 4 : A screenshot from PartisanScale.com showing the partisanship history for a senator
4 .
INTERACTIVE USER INTERFACE
The US Congress has been collecting data since the very first congress of the US history . This data has been encoded as XML files and publicly shared through the govtrack.us project3 . We collected the roll call votes of the US Senate for the terms 1 through 112 , covering the years 1789 2011 . We ran the ANCO HITS algorithm for each individual term . The sign of the ANCO HITS values are arbitrary ; therefore , we aligned consecutive terms by mirroring the scale if necessary . By analyzing more than 3,000,000 votes , we produced the web based interactive user interface wwwPartisanScalecom that allows the users to navigate through the history of the US Senate .
Figure 4 shows a screenshot of the user interface . Each term of the senate is shown as a column in the figure . The top row shows the terms and the years for each senate with the incumbent US president shown below . The senators are represented by boxes which are colored according to their political parties .
The vertical axis of the scale represents the bipolar nature of the US Senate . The polarity of each senator is represented by the location of each box . The dashed line shows the zero point . Senators around this point are calculated to be moderate , and the senators away from the dashed line are calculated to be more polarized . Hovering along these boxes will show the picture , the political party , and the amount of partisanship for the senator in focus . Clicking on the scale will further filter the figure to show the partisanship history . This filtering can also be done with the quick search tool on the top right corner . The auto completion feature will help the users easily select the senator .
For example , Figure 4 shows a senator that is calculated to be moderate for the 110th term . It can be seen that this senator was first elected in 1981 and served for 15 terms until the year 2010 . It also shows us that after 12 terms of service as a republican , he switches membership to the Democratic Party for the last 3 terms of his service .
3http://wwwgovtrackus/data
Figure 5 : Longevity of service
An introductory screencast video that shows the usage of the system can be found on the website .
5 . STATISTICS
Figure 5 shows the histogram for the number of terms each senator served . The average number of terms the senators served is 4.68 , and the longest run is 26 terms .
Figure 6 shows the partisanship displacement distribution for three ∆T values on a semi log scale . Partisanship displacement is defined as the absolute distance of partisan scale values for a senator between two terms T1 and T2 . C∆T ( d ) is the number of displacements ≥ d between any two terms T1 and T2 satisfying ∆T = T1 − T2 .
This figure shows three plots of C∆T values for ∆T = 1 , ∆T = 2 and ∆T = 3 . It can be clearly seen that the plots on the semi log scale form a linear function , which suggests an exponential distribution .
Figure 7 aggregates the party polarities . The mean partisanship values of the senators from each party is shown as a solid line . The shaded areas show 1 standard deviation along the mean for each term . This figure is helpful to identify the times of partisan politics within the US Senate .
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France351 Figure 7 : Aggregated Party Partisanship conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 239–248 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 3 ] W . Lin and A . Hauptmann . Are these documents written from different perspectives ? : a test of different perspectives based on statistical distribution divergence . In Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and the 44th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 1057–1064 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2006 .
[ 4 ] R . Malouf and T . Mullen . Graph based user classification for informal online political discourse . 2007 .
[ 5 ] T . Mullen and R . Malouf . A preliminary investigation into sentiment analysis of informal political discourse . In AAAI symposium on computational approaches to analysing weblogs ( AAAI CAAW ) , pages 159–162 , 2006 .
[ 6 ] M . Rege , M . Dong , and F . Fotouhi . Co clustering documents and words using bipartite isoperimetric graph partitioning . In Data Mining , 2006 . ICDM’06 . Sixth International Conference on , pages 532–541 . IEEE , 2006 .
[ 7 ] M . Thomas , B . Pang , and L . Lee . Get out the vote :
Determining support or opposition from congressional floor debate transcripts . In In Proceedings of EMNLP , pages 327–335 , 2006 .
[ 8 ] H . Zha , X . He , C . Ding , H . Simon , and M . Gu .
Bipartite graph partitioning and data clustering . In Proceedings of the tenth international conference on Information and knowledge management , pages 25–32 . ACM , 2001 .
Figure 6 : Partisanship displacement distribution
6 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we introduced a measure for partisanship , and applied it on 112 terms of the US Senate for longitudinal analysis . We further developed an interactive user interface wwwPartisanScalecom to visualize the analysis . The data set and the algorithm in source code are available online .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported in part by US DOD Minerva
Research Initiative grant N00014 09 1 0815 .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Bansal , C . Cardie , and L . Lee . The power of negative thinking : Exploiting label disagreement in the min cut classification framework . Proceedings of COLING : Companion volume : Posters , pages 13–16 , 2008 .
[ 2 ] H . Deng , M . Lyu , and I . King . A generalized co hits algorithm and its application to bipartite graphs . In Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD international
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France352
