Towards Multiple Identity Detection in Social Networks
Kahina Gani
Université Blaise Pascal
Clermont Ferrand 2 , LIMOS
UMR 6158 , France gani@isima.fr
Hakim Hacid
Bell Labs , Nozay France hakim.hacid@alcatel lucent.com
Ryan Skraba
Bell Labs , Nozay France ryan.skraba@alcatel lucent.com
ABSTRACT In this paper we discuss a piece of work which intends to provide some insights regarding the resolution of the hard problem of multiple identities detection . Based on hypothesis that each person is unique and identifiable whether in its writing style or social behavior , we propose a Framework relying on machine learning models and a deep analysis of social interactions , towards such detection .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Systems ] : Information storage and retrieval—On line Information Services
General Terms Experimentation
Keywords Social Networks , Authorship analysis , multiple identities
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Social networks offer the possibility for users to communicate behind one or multiple identities , whether their own , someone else ’s , or fantasy . Identity theft of a third party , including publishing a “ fake profile ” , can have serious consequences , by taking advantage of the reputation of a celebrity or a brand , or to ridicule someone in the public eye . A more serious use of multiple identities is to engage in cyber crime or fraud . In this context , investigators generally monitor the behavior of users by going through the suspected identities manually or with rudimentary tools . This is an arduous process since : ( i ) there is a large number of users generally involved in the network , ( ii ) several combinations of users are possible , ( iii ) the life time and the dynamics related to the interactions of the user , ( iv ) the diversity in the profiles an identity interacts with and , ( v ) if a user uses different identities for an illegal operation , she/he will try to hide as much details as possible to prevent leaving traces . The difficulty of the investigator is to identify such identities in a context where structural information are not enough reliable to make a decision .
We define the problem we are dealing with as follows : having a large set of social networks users and their associ
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . ated records of interactions , how to support analysts ( eg , criminal investigators ) in targeting the search for different identities corresponding to a specific user . The idea is then to transform the problem of finding different identities corresponding to the same user to a task manageable by a human brain by building reduced sets of users that the human brain can easily analyze and verify . It is mandatory that these reduced groups have to be built according to reasonable features which have to clearly capture the phenomena of multiple identities . To provide such support , our working hypothesis is the following : Even if a social network user decides to create several identities for different purposes , and even if she/he tries to hide the relations between the different identities she/he creates , a link may be established between those identities thanks to latent habits of the user which may manifest from , eg his writing styles , interests , temporal behaviors , etc . which construct the signature of the identity of the user . The idea is then to search for a possible representation of the signature of each user and then find a grouping strategy which may reveal a plausible link between the identities .
Existing work in this domain of authorship analysis[1 ] can be divided into three categories : ( i ) authorship identification , which compares anonymous texts against those belonging to identified entries[2 ] , ( ii ) authorship characterization , which attempts to determine the socio linguistic profile of the characteristics of the author[2 ] , and ( iii ) similarity detection , which compares texts , for example , in plagiarism detection[3 ] . As part of our study we considered a similarity detection approach . To the best of our knowledge , there is no work that provides authorship analysis using the special characteristics that may be found in social networks ( links , activities , tags , etc ) In fact , no work has tackled the problem , in the context of social networks . This is mainly due to the complexity of the problem , the huge amounts of data and the lack of labeled data .
2 . OUR APPROACH
Our proposed framework for the detection of multiple identities in social networks ( illustrated in Figure 1 ) uses the methods of authorship analysis combined with machine learning techniques , specifically a k means and a Kohonen map[4 ] . It consists of three layers : Representation Space for choosing and extracting features from content and relationships , Learning layer for applying clustering methods to group similar identities , and Validation which is the final step where human intervention makes decisions on which identities are managed by the same author .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France503 writing styles of the different identities . We obtain different results depending on the subspace used ( four subspaces are considered ) and the method used ( k Means or Kohonen Map ) as illustrated in Figure 2 . Clusters having a small number of identities may simplify the work of an investigator since she/he has a reduced set of identities to check . We observe that the two methods provide different groupings , but both of them provide almost the same proportion of clusters having few identities . k means is a more permissive model , providing a dominant cluster containing most of the identities and other very small clusters .
Figure 2 : Illustration of the obtained results with 1000 users and a configuration of 10 and 20 clusters .
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We have presented a framework for grouping similar identities , and supporting the discovery of multiple identities belonging to one author , through three levels : ( i ) representation space extraction , ( ii ) learning layer , and ( iii ) validation . Among the features which are already widely used in research in the field of authorship analysis ( lexical , syntactic and idiosyncratic ) , we have considered features characteristic of social networks ( activity and topology ) . It has been shown that since a user cannot manage an infinite set of identities , the threshold has been set to 20 . This needs to be validated by domain experts , but is already an interesting reduction of the search space for authors . As immediate future work , we plan mainly to evaluate the obtained groupings with a larger dataset and directly with experts .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] O De Vel . Mining e mail authorship . volume 30 , page 55 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] Malcolm Walter Corney . Analysing e mail text authorship for forensic purposes . 2003 .
[ 3 ] F Iqbal , R Hadjidj , B Fung , and M Debbabi . A novel approach of mining write prints for authorship attribution in e mail forensics . volume 5 , pages S42–S51 . Elsevier , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Jiawei Han . Data Mining : Concepts and Techniques .
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc . , San Francisco , CA , USA , 2005 .
[ 5 ] Inderjit S . Dhillon , Yuqiang Guan , and Brian Kulis . Kernel k means : spectral clustering and normalized cuts . In ACM KDD , pages 551–556 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] T . Kohonen , M . R . Schroeder , and T . S . Huang , editors . Self Organizing Maps . Springer Verlag New York , Inc . , Secaucus , NJ , USA , 3rd edition , 2001 .
Figure 1 : Methodology of the proposed framework
The features chosen in the Representation Space significantly affect the performance of our search for multiple identities . Our framework manages the following lexical features : average words length , average number words per message , average message length , ratio of uppercase letters , average number of short words , ratio of short words per message , ratio , standard deviation and variance of special characters , and ratio , standard deviation and variance of emoticons . The syntactic features include grammatical analysis to determine noun usage ( singular vs . plural and common vs . proper ) . We also monitor the use of 363 function words and 8 punctuation marks . Among the idiosyncratic features we use are intentional and unintentional spelling errors , using a dictionary and TF IDF . This is important since the nature of social networks encourages the creation of new ways to express oneself in short hand . An important contribution of our work includes social features , composed of Activity ( the ratio of message type sent by an identity over a given time interval , which gives us the degree of participation of the user in the network , and Topology which characterizes the social neighborhood of a specific user , such as ( in Twitter ) , links of friendship , followers or followings , as well as the density index of each identity .
As opposed to existing approaches that have a set of known authors being to unattributed work by supervised learning , our framework uses an unsupervised approach and especially two specific clustering algorithms : k means [ 5 ] and Kohonen Maps [ 6 ] , used to group the data into clusters of high similarity . In the Learning layer , we have decided to apply machine learning techniques on separate subsets of features ( that we call subspace from now on ) and merge the results , for the following reasons : ( i ) our initial hypothesis is that a user may intentionally or unintentionally disguise a subset of features between multiple identities , but cannot control all the features such as idiosyncratic features , and ( ii ) smaller feature sets provide better performance in machine learning tasks . The merge , or aggregation , of all the clusters obtained in the different sub spaces is performed by calculating a minimum frequency of co occurrence of each identity in the sub space clusters . This provides much smaller clusters than in each subspace separately , facilitating the analysis of the grouped identities .
3 . PRELIMINARY RESULTS
For applying the previous steps , we retrieved messages of over one million accounts of Twitter social network , and we studied the features of these messages relatively to the
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France504
