From Linked Data to Linked Entities : a Migration Path
Giovanni Bartolomeo
University of Rome Tor Vergata
Via del Politecnico , 1 00133 Rome , Italy
Stefano Salsano
University of Rome Tor Vergata
Via del Politecnico , 1 00133 Rome , Italy giovannibartolomeo@uniroma2it stefanosalsano@uniroma2it their
ABSTRACT Entities have been deserved special attention in the latest years , however troublesome . Existing approaches exploit ad hoc services or centralized architectures . In this paper we present a novel approach to recognize naturally emerging entity identifiers built on top of Linked Data concepts and protocols . identification is still
Categories and Subject Descriptors H [ Information Systems ] : Models and Principles ; H.1 [ Models and Principles ] : Miscellaneous ; H1m [ Miscellaneous ]
Keywords Entity , Identity , Linked Data non resources information
1 . INTRODUCTION The “ Identity and Reference on the Web ” ( IRW ) ontology [ 1 ] classifies into AbstractResources , ConceptualResources and PhysicalEntityResources . In order to explain what an abstract resource ( eg the weight force ) or a conceptual resource ( eg , a RJ45 plug or a Margarita cocktail ) is , it is sufficient – and necessary – to provide a formal definition , or a technical specification or maybe even a receipt . On the contrary , physical entity resources ( henceforth entities ) typically have more complex and vague “ explanations ” . Despite entities have been deserved special attention in the latest years , capturing their identity on the Web is still the subject of an open and lively debate1 . In this paper we will address the main conceptual aspects behind entity identification , as emerging from current state of the art solutions . Based on a better understanding of these aspects , we will rethink at the principles governing the association of descriptions to non information resources . In particular , we will explain why some of these principles might represent an obstacle to pass from the current Linked Data to a world wide global knowledge space that we call “ Linked Entities ” . Finally we will propose a possible “ migration path ” based on a methodology which allows identifiers by inspecting the natural evolution of equivalence links . to recognize emerging entity
1 See for instance P . Hayes . Message to www rdfcomments@w3org,2003http://listsw3org/Archives/Public/ww w tag/2003Jul/0198html
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . those including
( in particular ,
2 . RELATED WORKS The current Linked Data practice of using the owl:sameAs predicate to interconnect two “ similar ” resources supposed to represent the same entity is often a oversimplification which produces inconsistency between the statements asserted in the associated descriptions of the connected resources [ 2 ] . In fact , entity attributes may change over the time2 , and more generally over different contexts . Since RDF does not allow to model n ary relations time variables ) , corresponding individual property values ( such as age , work position , etc . ) may vary in different associated descriptions . Merging different subjects into a single node usually destroys contextualization and creates inconsistency . To mitigate the context loss effect ( a well known issue common to other predicates such as owl:imports ) the W3C Technical Architecture Group ( TAG ) has recommended to treat RDF statements as claims by different information providers rather than as actual facts . Many efforts have been devoted in finding alternatives to owl:sameAs . For instance , Hayes and Halpin [ 3 ] present four “ alternative readings ” of the way this predicate is currently used : misplaced references , referential opacity , identity in different contexts and similarity . They also present possible alternative predicates ( mainly from the SKOS vocabulary3 ) for each of these cases , but admit that in some cases choosing suitable alternatives to owl:sameAs might be difficult : “ their use may be a matter of opinion , as someone ’s close match may be another person ’s identical match ” . Jaffri [ 4 ] addresses the problem of coreferences in Linked Data . Coreferences may arise i ) when multiple URIRefs point at the same resource and ii ) when a single URIRef points at more than one resource . The author suggests a solution based on the introduction of a local “ Consistent Reference Service ” that groups together URIRefs referring to the same resource from different contexts . Jaffri also highlights that some URIRefs may change their “ meaning ” depending on the context in which they appear . Bouquet et al . [ 5 ] observe that entity identification is difficult because the “ good practice of associating the same URIRef to the same entity [ and using it consistently ] is not supported by any large scale Web infrastructure ” . Therefore , they propose a community supported entity profile repository called Entity Name System ( ENS ) . The ENS contains profiles of entities that have been assigned invariant and consolidated URIRefs . To issue new
2 See for instance the “ Dilibert ’s cubicles ” example presented by Dan Brinkley in his blog post on November , 3 2011 : http://danbriorg/words/2011/11/03/753
3 See http://wwww3org/2004/02/skos/vocabs
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France115 RDF statements about an entity , an information provider should contact the ENS in order to get the “ universally unique identifier ” associated to the entity , and then use this identifier in her RDF statements . The authors present an implementation in the context of the OKKAM project4 and discuss the main challenges of this approach : i ) finding the right granularity to classify entities ; ii ) providing suitable invariant attributes in each entity profile to allow to univocally identify the entity ; iii ) managing the centralized name system ( in terms of ownership , privacy , scalability and maintenance ) .
3 . PROPOSED APPROACH In Linked Data any resource is “ identified ” by a HTTP URIRef . The choice of the HTTP protocol has its rationale into two main advantages : i ) the facility to create identifiers in a totally decentralized fashion , which allows anyone to issue new URIRefs and avoids the disadvantage of maintaining a centralized naming authority ; ii ) the HTTP own ability of making information accessible by dereferencing the URIRefs . The second facility has been exploited in the successful introduction of a technique [ 6 ] allowing to redirect an URIRef assigned to a non information resource to an URIRef accessing an “ associated description ” of the non information resource . Unfortunately , this technique makes harder entity identification at a global scale as it leaves the description of a resource to single URIRef owners . This leads to the open problem of objectively expressing the degree of matching between similar resources . As opposite to these URIRefs , which he calls RDFURIs , Bouquet introduces OkkamIDs , identifiers that directly refer to entities [ 7 ] . Appealling to Kripke5 , the notion of direct reference is realized by means of an “ entity profile ” ( OkkamProfile ) which contains information agreed by the Web community ( and not simply provided by a single owner ) . Delivering information about the “ normative ” use of an entity identifier as agreed by the community , the entity profile answers one of the main arguments raised by Hayes and Halpin [ 8 ] , ie that the user tends “ to observe [ only ] a small portion of [ an URIRef ] use ” and thus to maintain an implicit ambiguity about the referent of an associated description . Having understood the fundamental disambiguation function performed by OkkamIDs , in the following we illustrate a possible methodology allowing to introduce the concepts of entity identifier and entity profile on top of Linked Data , without “ breaking ” the deployed base and without introducing external systems or specialized identifiers .
4 . METHODOLOGY We reuse classes and properties defined in the IRW ontology6 and introduce ( Fig 1 ) the concept of entity identifier ( EntityIDs ) and entity profile ( EntityProfile ) , performing identical functions as , respectively , OkkamID and OkkamProfile .
4 The OKKAM project co funded by the European Commission
( GA 215032 ) , ran from January 2008 to June 2010 , http://wwwokkamorg/
5 See Kripke , S . : Naming and necessity . Cambridge ,
MassaHarvard University Press , 1980 . 6 In the IRW ontology , “ RDFURIs ” are modelled as irw:SemanticWebURIs . is
EntityID is a subclass of SemanticWebURI . Unlike OkkamIDs , EntityIDs are decentralized and do not introduce any syntax restriction but the ones defined for their parent class . EntityProfile subclass of a ldow:AssociatedDescription . EntityProfiles contain only information agreed by the Web community , thus they fix the referent of an EntityID by community agreement . To answer the question of which irw:SemanticWebURIs should become EntityIDs ( and , consequently , which associated descriptions should become EntityProfiles ) , once more we refer to Kripke ’s “ chain of communication ” , a natural process which occurs to entity names when they are transmitted from people to people through the time and the space . Hayes refers that this process is not causal , rather it has the character of a communication process and may also fail if the provided information about an entity is not accurate enough or is not accurately reported ; some names may be lost , others might even change their referent7 . Nevertheless , we believe that this is part of a natural evolution of the language itself and that when the new referent is finally agreed by the community , its name arises to the role of an ( asymptotically ) stable identifier , eventually becoming part of the shared human knowledge about the reality . Therefore , rather than creating universally unique entity identifiers , we think that there should exist a natural tendency of some URIRefs to emerge and to become more popular and stable than others . The Linked Data practice to connect resources which are claimed to be similar is , in our opinion , a Web based realization of Kripke ’s “ chain of communication ” . Following these connections it should be possible to find URIRefs that are natural candidates to become entity identifiers . The search for community agreed entity identifiers then turns into the investigation of the most connected nodes in a RDF graph where the nodes are the target URIRefs and the arcs are RDF links expressing equivalence or similarity . From the analysis of the connectivity properties of this graph we expect to find the small world and scale free structure that characterizes natural networks8 . We plan to discover potential entity identifiers by splitting this RDF graph into clusters and by computing relevant properties of the nodes [ 10 ] in each cluster . After an entity identifier has been detected , its associated description could be easily turned into an entity profile conveying community agreed information useful to characterize the entity at a global scale . 5 . CONCLUSIONS “ The identity resolution problem in Linked Data will be naturally solved by a distributed and evolutionary strategy ” [ 11 ] . In order to effectively realize this vision , some underlying mechanisms need to be slightly modified . Our approach introduces the concept of entity identifier and community agreed entity profile on top of Linked Data , without “ breaking ” the currently deployed base . Entity identifiers are taken among the authorities of “ similarity networks ” which we conjecture to be small world and scale free .
7 See Evans , G . : The Causal Theory of Names . in Martinich , A . P . ed . : The Philosophy of Language . Oxford University Press , 1985 .
8 Ding [ 9 ] has recently proved that networks consisting in owl:sameAs statements are scale free and that they contain “ hubs ” and “ authorities ” from organizations such as DBpedia , OpenCyc , GeoNames and Semanticweborg
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France116 irw:URI irw:refersTo irw:Resource irw:Semantic
WebURI
EntityID
1 irw:NonInformation
Resource
+ irw:Information
Resource irw:identify irw:isAbout irw:Physical
Entity Resource irw:WebResource ldow:Associated
Description
EntityProfile
Figure 1 . EntityID and EntityProfile classes introduced in the IRW ontology .
This choice is fault tolerant : through the years , some authorities might naturally disappear , whereas new ones might arise . Even if entire organizations such as DBpedia or OKKAM could be dismissed , new ones could take their place and their URIRefs could arise to the role of new entity identifiers .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is partially sponsored by the European Commission under research grant ‘Convergence’ ( FP7 257123 ) .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Halpin , H . , Presutti , V . 2009 . An ontology of resources :
Solving the identity crisis . In : ESWC 2009 , Research Studies Press/Wiley .
[ 2 ] J . McCusker , J . , McGuinness , D . 2010 . owl:sameas considered harmful to provenance . In Proceedings of the ISCB Conference on Semantics in Healthcare and Life Sciences .
[ 3 ] Halpin , H . , Hayes , PP , McCusker , J . , Mcguinness , D . ,
Thompson , H . 2010 . When owl:sameas isn’t the same : An analysis of identity in linked data . In Proceedings of the 9th International SemanticWeb Conference .
[ 4 ] Jaffri , A . , Glaser , H . , Millard , I . 2008 . URI disambiguation in the context of linked data . In Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Linked Data on the Web .
[ 5 ] Bouquet , P . , Stoermer , H . , Niederee , G . , Mana , A . 2008 .
Entity Name System : The Backbone of an Open and Scalable Web of Data . In : Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Semantic Computing , ICSC 2008 554 561 IEEE Computer Society .
[ 6 ] Sauermann , L . , Cyganiak , R . , Volkel , M . 2007 . Cool URIs for the Semantic Web , Technical Report , TM 07 01 , DFKI . [ 7 ] Bouquet , P . , Palpanas , T . , Stoermer , H . , Vignolo , M . 2009 . A Conceptual Model for a Web scale Entity Name System , In Proceedings of 9th the Asian Semantic Web Conference .
[ 8 ] Hayes , P . , Halpin , H . 2008 . In defense of ambiguity .
International Journal of Semantic Web and Information Systems , 4(3 ) .
[ 9 ] Ding , L . , Shinavier , J . , Shangguan Z . , McGuinness , D . :
SameAs Networks and Beyond . 2010 . Analyzing Deployment Status and Implications of owl:sameAs in Linked Data . Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Volume 6496/2010 , 145 160 .
[ 10 ] Watts , D.J , Strogatz , S . 1998 . Collective dynamics of 'small world' networks . Nature 393 ( 6684 ) : 440 442 .
[ 11 ] Bizer , C . , Health , T . 2011 . Linked Data : Evolving the Web into a Global Data Space . Synthesis Lectures on the Semantic Web : Theory & Technology , 1:1,1 136 . Morgan Claypool .
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France117
