Using Toolbar Data to Understand Yahoo! Answers Usage∗
Giovanni Gardelli Yahoo! Europe Ltd . 125 Shaftesbury Av .
London , WC2H 8AD , UK gardelli@yahoo inc.com
Ingmar Weber
Yahoo! Research Barcelona Avda . Diagonal 177 , 8th floor
08018 Barcelona , Spain ingmar@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT We use Yahoo! Toolbar data to gain insights into why people use Q&A sites . We look at questions asked on Yahoo! Answers and analyze both the pre question behavior of users as well as their general online behavior . Our results indicate that there is a one dimensional spectrum of users ranging from “ social users ” to “ informational users ” and that web search and Q&A sites complement each other , rather than compete . Concerning the pre question behavior , users who first issue a question related query are more likely to issue informational questions , rather than conversational ones , and such questions are less likely to attract an answer . Finally , we only find weak evidence for topical congruence between a user ’s questions and his web queries .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ Information Systems ] : User/Machine Systems— Human factors
Keywords community question answering sites , web search , conversational vs . informational , Yahoo! Answers
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Users have a variety of tools for seeking information online . They can consult web search engines but they can also seek help via social networking sites or ask questions on Q&A sites . We use toolbar data to understand better why people submit questions to Q&A sites . By gathering browsing information for anonymous users we can not only observe the online behavior preceding the creation of a new question online , but we can also construct general user profiles . Understanding question asking behavior on Q&A sites is important as it allows web search engines to better understand alternative search strategies and take a more “ social ” approach to addressing information needs . ∗This research was partially supported by the Torres Quevedo Program of the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation , co funded by the European Social Fund , and by the Spanish Centre for the Development of Industrial Technology under the CENIT program , project CEN 20101037 , “ Social Media ” http://cenitsocialmediaes/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
2 . RELATED WORK
Harper et al . in [ 1 ] describe how to categorize questions in a informational vs . conversational taxonomy through machine learning . This taxonomy is a simpler form of the one proposed in [ 2 ] but , due to its simplicity and the categorization accuracy , we apply the binary distinction in our analysis . Relevant bibliography around Q&A behavior is usually focused on social networks , but some results are also applicable to Q&A sites [ 3 ] . While it is clear that search and Q&A can be perceived as competitors or complements , it is unclear when these perceptions change and why . Our work sheds some light on this issue by integrating both prequestion search behavior and general online behavior .
3 . DATA SET
We used anonymous data collected through the Yahoo! Tool bar from mid June 2010 to mid July 2011 . We excluded users with less than 1,000 or with more than 1,000,000 page views , or users whose toolbar language was not English . In the end , we used 27,262 distinct users who asked at least one question on Yahoo! Answers ( Y!A ) .
To obtain general user profiles , we classified a subset of URLs into five categories as follows . Q&A page view ( Y!A or Wiki Answers ) , Social page view ( Facebook , Myspace or Orkut ) , Knowledge page view ( Wikipedia , *.edu or *acuk ) , Web search page view ( Google , Yahoo! or Bing ) , and clicked search result page view ( referrer was web search ) .
We also looked at whether a question was preceded ( during 10 minutes ) by a related web search query . We deemed a ( question , web search query ) pair related if ( i ) they were classified as having the same Y!A topic ( see below ) , or if ( ii ) their Jaccard string token similarity ( after normalization and removing stopwords ) was ≥ 25 For preceding web queries , we also looked at whether at least 100 seconds passed after the result page view before another page view as such “ long ” clicks are better indicators of search success . For each user , we further categorized up to 1,000 web queries into one of the 26 first level Yahoo! Answers topics . The classifier works by issuing the normalized input string to the Yahoo! Answers Search API and doing a rank weighted majority voting on the categories returned .
We trained a machine learning algorithm to classify questions into informational vs . conversational . To obtain labeled data , we sampled 500 question instances from our data set ; each of these instances was labeled by two judges . There were 265 informational questions , 202 conversational ones , 32 split cases and one ignored case ( non English ) . A total of 467 labeled questions was then used to train an SVM with
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France509 a combination of token uni and bigrams as features . The trained classifier has 10 fold CV accuracy of 76 % , considerably higher than the 57 % for a trivial classifier . 4 . BASIC ANALYSIS
We wanted to analyze if general web usage is a predictor of question asking behavior . To obtain use profiles we normalized the total page views on Q&A , social , knowledge and web search pages respectively by dividing their count by the total number of page views recorded for that user . Using these fractions , we also bucketed users’ questions into 10 percentiles . We then computed regressions to test for correlation between the percentiles of one variable , and the mean of the percentiles of all the other variables . In general there is a positive correlation between the usage of Q&A sites and ( i ) web search percentiles and ( ii ) knowledge site percentiles ( respectively : y=0.213 , R2=0.848 ; y=0.225 , R2=0.828 ) , indicating Q&A sites are not a replacement for search engines or knowledge sites . For social network usage the correlation is negative ( y= 0.225 , R2=0828 )
As we observed a strong correlation between the type of question asked and the presence of a related search , we considered four categories : ( i ) no related searches observed ( aware users ) , ( ii ) presence of related searches but no clicks on results ( discouraged users ) , ( iii ) presence of related searches and short clicks on results ( failed users ) , and ( iv ) long clicks on results ( integration users ) . Fig 1 shows that if a user had already consulted a web search engine , his question is less likely to attract answers . We also see that questions without a preceding related web query are more conversational , potentially because their information need cannot be satisfied by a search engine . vs . 36.8 % response rate for conversational questions ; 21.8 % vs . 31.4 % for informational questions ) . 5 . TOPICAL PREFERENCE
Do people ask questions about the same topics they search for ? To answer this question we took several approaches . First , we looked at the probability of observing a matching topic pair when one topic is generated according to the user ’s web search topic distribution and the other topic is ( i ) also generated according to this distribution , or ( ii ) is the topic of the user ’s asked question . Concretely , let pi t be the web search topic distribution across topics t for the user pertaining to question instance i . Let t(i ) be the topic of this question instance . Then for each given i we compute both ( i ) pi t and ( ii ) pi t(i ) . As for many instances i we have pi sq this indicates that users do not ask about topics they frequently search for as the match probability is smaller by random chance . sq = ss = t · 1t(i)=t = pi ss > pi t · pi t pi t pi type #q 8,136 inf conv 2,477 ss > pi pi sq 79.7 % 86.5 % pi sQ > pi sq 49.8 % 48.1 % pi Sq > pi sq 40.7 % 43.5 %
Table 1 : Analysis showing the results of the three different tests about users’ topical preference .
Second , we corrected for the fact that topics asked online do not follow the same distribution as topics searched for . For example adult topics are prominent in search but banned from Q&A sites . Hence , we looked at the topic match probability when one topic is generated according to pi t and the other topic is ( i ) generated according to the general question topic distribution on Y!A or ( ii ) is the topic of the user ’s asked question ( as before ) . Concretely , let pi sq be defined as before . Define ps t to be the question topic distribution across topics t for site s . For a question instance i let s(i ) be the site pertaining to that instance . Then for each t pi instance i we compute pi in addition to the pi sq as before . Now we have that pi sq , indicating little influence of personal search history once a general “ bias ” is taken into account . sQ = t · ps(i ) sQ ≈ pi t and pi t
Finally , we also corrected for the global topic differences by looking at the probability of observing a matching topic pair when one topic is the topic of the pertaining question and the other topic is ( i ) sampled from a general web search topic distribution , or ( ii ) is sampled from the user ’s web search topic distribution . Case ( i ) pertains to pi Sq defined analogously to before and Case ( ii ) pertains to pi sq . With this correction , users on Yahoo! Answers tend to ask about their more frequent web search topics . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] F . M . Harper , D . Moy , and J . A . Konstan . Facts or friends ? Distinguishing informational and conversational questions in social Q&Asites . In CHI , pages 759–768 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] M . Harper , J . Weinberg , J . Logie , and J . A . Konstan .
Question types in social Q&Asites . First Monday , 15(7 ) , 2010 .
[ 3 ] M . R . Morris , J . Teevan , and K . Panovich . What do people ask their social networks , and why ? : a survey study of status message Q&Abehavior . In CHI , pages 1739–1748 , 2010 .
Figure 1 : Yahoo! Answers questions are split according to users’ pre question behavior .
Though general pre question search activity is an indicator for informational questions , questions preceded by related web queries and long clicks have a comparatively high fraction of conversational queries . This might indicate an attempt to integrate information found with users’ opinions or suggestions . We also observed a correlation between the presence of a knowledge view before the question posting and the answer probability . On Y!A , given the type of question , there is a much lower chance to receive an answer if there is a knowledge page view right before asking ( 26.3 %
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France510
