BlueFinder : Estimate Where a Beach Photo Was Taken
Liangliang Cao , John Smith , Zhen Wen
IBM Watson Research Center
{lcao,jsmith,zhenwen}@usibmcom
Zhijun Yin , Xin Jin , Jiawei Han
University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign
{zyin3,xinjin3,hanj}@illinois.edu
ABSTRACT This paper describes a system to estimate geographical locations for beach photos . We develop an iterative method that not only trains visual classifiers but also discovers geographical clusters for beach regions . The results show that it is possible to recognize different beaches using visual information with reasonable accuracy , and our system works 27 times better than random guess for the geographical localization task .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing
General Terms Algorithm
Keywords Geographical estimation , beach photos , geographical clustering
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Beaches are among the most attractive places people would like to go to during vacations and holidays . Beautiful beaches , especially those famous ones , are often of unique characteristics and bear a lot of photos taken by tourists . People are often very interested in recognizing the location of beach photos . They like to organize photos by locations and share with their friends . These phenomena motivate us to ask one question : Is it possible to design a photo management system which automatically estimates the geographical location of beach photos ?
The general problem of geographical estimation based on visual features is very difficult for unconstrained photos . As observed by previous studies , estimation based on visual features only is no better than random guess [ 2 ] . Previous studies usually rely on user tags [ 1 ] [ 2 ] or travel histories , which limits the applications when no user information is given . In this paper , we argue that localizing the beach photos are easier than general photos . Beach scenes are less diversified , and the photos enjoy special characteristics like sands , unique water color , and coastlines that are related to their geographical locations . Figure 1 illustrates some examples of beach photos clustered by different locations.It is easy to observe the visual similarities of beach photo in the same cluster .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Figure 1 : Examples of photos from different locations .
The problem of beach photo localization is also different from that of landmark recognition . One landmark usually corresponds one view or one subject with unique appearance , while a beach scene may contain a lot of clues including water , boats , people dresses , buildings and plants . Moreover , a landmark is usually limited to a point on the earth , while a beach usually covers a region . It is often inaccurate and also unnecessary to estimate the exact GPS coordinate for each query and we only need to estimate a coarse location for the beach photo .
To address the uniqueness of beach photo localization , an important component in beach photo localization is to find meaningful geographical clusters corresponding to different beaches . The use of geographical clusters benefits the problem of localization in two aspects : On the training stage , geographical clusters provide more training samples and hence lead to better recognition accuracy ; on the testing stage , estimation of the most possible region for each query photo will be relatively easier than the estimation of GPS coordinates , while the information of geographical cluster will be good enough for trip planing and photo organization applications . It is challenging to find meaningful geographical clusters . A naive way is to use fix grid to separate the earth surface into small regions . However , this method does not work for our system since the beach regions are of irregular shapes , and the grid may split a beach into several pieces . Another way is to use country borders to separate the geographical regions , which will become too coarse for large countries but too fine for small ones . This paper employs a density based clustering method [ 1 ] to find the initialization of meaningful geographical clusters . The initialized cluster
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France469 may not be optimal for beach localization since no visual features are considered in this stage . To develop a reliable beach recognition system , we need to take both visual similarity and geographical information into account . In this paper , we will introduce our geographical refining strategy which simultaneously learns visual characteristics and refines the geographical clusters . The details of our system will be explained in the following sections .
2 . DATASET
A lot of beach photos are available in social media web sites associating with GPS tags . We collect 35K photos of Flickr photo with the tag of “ beach" or "coast" , of which each photo is labeled by a two dimensional GPS coordinate vector . To provide a fair evaluation , we hand select 1.1K testing photos with typical beach scenes , while removing photos with non typical scenes such as personal portraits , and indoor pictures . The testing photos are evenly distributed in the world scale and there is no overlap between training and testing sets .
3 . METHOD AND PERFORMANCE
Algorithm 1 illustrates the procedure of our system . We simultaneously train visual classifiers and refine geographical clusters in an iterative manner . At each iteration , we first refine geographical clusters using the GPS coordinates of beach photos . We select the efficient low dimensional mean shift algorithm for the clustering task because it does not require predetermined cluster numbers and is scalable to millions or even billions of samples . Then we train a visual classification model for each cluster based on SIFT features . Given C geographical clusters , we decompose the learning problem into a series of C(C − 1 ) small problems , each of which corresponds to finding a decision boundary to separate photos from two clusters . In this case , each geographical cluster will at most win C − 1 votes in the pairwise comparison . The estimated label is the class which won the largest number of votes . It is easy to see that an imperfect geographical cluster will harm the recognition accuracy . To refine geographical clusters , we evaluate the prediction scores for training photos , and compute the false alarm rate F A , together with the missed detection rate M D . For those with high F A scores , they usually cover a large region of land , we will split it into smaller regions . For those with low M D scores , they usually cover non distinguishable regions and should be removed in training . Then the geographical clusters are refined and we will retrain the visual classification models for the next iteration . The iterative process will stop when geographical clusters are finalized with no splitting or removing operation . Figure 2 plot the distribution of beach photos and their corresponding geographical clusters in roughly different colors .
We compare the recognition results using our method , random
Algorithm 1 Simultaneously train visual classifiers and refine geographical clusters .
Input : Photos annotated with their GPS coordinates . Initialize geographical clusters using efficient meanshift clustering . repeat
Train visual recognition model for each geographical cluster Based on the recognition model , associate each geographical cluster with photos according their visual recognition results Refine the clusters : split clusters with large F A and remove clusters with large M D until The clusters are fixed .
Figure 2 : The geographical distribution of beach photos in the world . The horizontal and vertical axes denote longitude and latitude , respectively . The 144 geographical clusters are denoted by different colors .
Method Accuracy
Table 1 : Recognition accuracy nearest neighbor random guess
0.7 %
10.3 % our method
19.3 %
Table 2 : Percentage of localization within ≤ 5◦ neighborhood
Method Percentage nearest neighbor our method
6.7 %
17.5 % guess and the nearest neighbor method [ 3 ] . The accuracy measures whether a testing photo is classified into the correct clusters . As shown in Table 1 , our system using visual features works 193/07 = 27 times better than random guess , and also better than the nearest neighbor method . Another intuitive way to evaluate our system is to check how far is the estimated location from its true GPS coordinates . We use the center of geographical cluster as the estimated location and compute the distance between estimation and GPS coordinates . As shown in Table 3 , about 17.5 % of testing photos are localized within a GPS coordinate neighborhood of 5 degrees .
4 . DISCUSSIONS
This paper describes a system that can identify the geographical cluster and estimate the geographical locations for beach photos . In the future work , we will extend the current system for other concepts like buildings or landscapes , incorporate external knowledge of satellite photos , and design algorithms that are more reliable to noise effects .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Cao , J . Yu , J . Luo , and T . Huang . Enhancing semantic and geographic annotation of web images via logistic canonical correlation regression . In ACM Multimedia , 2009 .
[ 2 ] D . J . Crandall , L . Backstrom , D . P . Huttenlocher , and J . M . Kleinberg .
Mapping the world ’s photos . WWW , 2009 .
[ 3 ] J . Hays and A . A . Efros . IM2PGS : estimating geographic information from a single image . In CVPR , 2008 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France470
