Semi structured Semantic Overlay for Information
Retrieval in Self organizing Networks
Supervised by : Sylvie Calabretto and Lionel Brunie
Yulian Yang Université de Lyon
LIRIS UMR 5205 INSA Lyon
7 , Avenue Jean Capelle
69621 , Velleurbanne Cedex , France yulianyang@insa lyonfr
ABSTRACT As scalability and flexibility have become the critical concerns in information management systems , self organizing networks attract attentions from both research and industrial communities . This work proposes a semi structured semantic overlay for information retrieval in large scale selforganizing networks . With the autonomy to their own resources , the nodes are organized into a semantic overlay hosting topically discriminative communities . For information retrieval within a community , unstructured routing approach is employed for the sake of flexibility ; While for joining new nodes and routing queries to a distant community , a structured mechanism is designed to save the traffic and time cost . Different from the semantic overlay in the literature , our proposal has three contributions : 1 . we design topicbased indexing to form and maintain the semantic overlay , to guarantee both scalability and efficiency ; 2 . We introduce unstructured routing approach within the community , to allow flexible node joining and leaving ; 3 . We take advantage of the interaction among nodes to capture the overlay changes and make corresponding adaption in topic based indexing .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information storage and retrieval ] : Information search and retrieval—Selection process , Clustering
Keywords Information retrieval , Self organizing networks , Topic based indexing , Query routing , Semantic overlay
1 . BACKGROUND
Self organizing networks are distributed networks without central control . Resources are distributed in the nodes , and tasks are performed through the cooperation among the nodes ( ie peer to peer network ) . It has a promising potential of scalability and flexibility , and attracts increasing research interests as an alternative to centralized information systems . One of the typical applications is Information Retrieval(IR ) in self organizing networks . In this task , each node manages a document repository , and works as both a
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . resource provider and a resource searcher in the network . Since the documents aren’t necessarily indexed by a central server , the single point of failure is avoided . Given a query , the relevant documents are often stored in remote nodes . Hence , IR in self organizing networks mainly involves node selection and query routing .
In centralized IR systems , efficient IR mainly implies returning an effective result list from a pre crawled document repository in a short time . In self organizing networks , to perform efficient IR has more challenges . Appropriate nodes need to be located not only in a short time but also at a low traffic cost ; the network changes dynamically . For example , the resources are constantly changing and the nodes are joining and leaving the network frequently . To meet these challenges in one system is not a trivial work . Traditionally , query routing is performed either randomly in unstructured network [ 8 ] or by inquiring indices stored in distributed hashing table(DHT ) in structured network [ 7 , 23 ] . The problems lie in : the former facilitates dynamic change in the network , but has the limitation in efficient query routing ; the latter performs efficient query routing but spends a lot for dynamic network change(ie frequently index updating and network churn ) .
Semantic overlay networks [ 9 ] and small world model [ 13 ] are then introduced . They share a common idea : a logical overlay is built by connecting nodes using tight or loose links . Nodes with similar resources are connected by tight links . The node communities collected by tight links are connected by loose links . Construction of tight links is the major concern of research , while loose links are often built by randomly connecting two nodes in different communities . This makes it difficult for a new node to efficiently find its community in large scale networks . In addition , the similarity is often measured by exact term matching [ 27 , 6 ] . The semantics are missed in this way . In [ 18 ] , a structured small world is proposed to perform efficient semantic search . But the scale of its structure would increase as the network size increases .
In this work , the self organizing network is envisioned as a large scale dynamic network , where IR problem can not be handled efficiently by only structured or unstructured approaches . we propose a semi structured semantic overlay to integrate the advantages from both sides . We index the nodes in the network by the topics of their resources . A structured super node layer is designed to maintain the topic based indices . New node joins in the network by in
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France203 quiring the indices and gets access to the nodes with topically similar resources . Once it finds similar nodes , flexible communication among them is allowed . In return , the flexible communication helps to capture the changes of the overlay structure . An adaptation mechanism is designed to make the indices adaptable to the changes . Specifically , our proposal and contributions are as follows :
• We extract topics from the network resources by measuring their semantic similarity in the subspace of a full semantic space . Refined semantic relationship is expected to be discovered in this way . This settles an effective basis for IR in self organizing networks .
• We index the extracted topics , and store it on a structured super node layer . By inquiring the topic indices , nodes with similar resources are connected via an efficient way and semantic overlay is built accordingly . For node joining and inter community query routing , efficiency can also be guaranteed by the topic based indexing .
• Each node is allowed to communicate freely with the neighborhood on the semantic overlay . This facilitate flexible searching within a community . In addition , changes(eg community shrinking and topic changing ) in the network are expected to be captured by the flexible neighborhood communication . It motivates an adaption mechanism of the topic based indexing .
The rest of this paper is structured as follows : Section 2 presents the state of the art ; Our proposal is demonstrated in Section 3 . Key issues and their solutions are described in Section 4 and 5 .
2 . STATE OF THE ART
To perform information retrieval in self organizing networks , an efficient approach is to index the resources and store them in distributed nodes . A DHT based infrastructure is implemented in this approach which provides efficient querying routing . But it costs too much for maintenance , especially when the network is a large scale and dynamic one as envisioned in our work [ 15 ] . The approach based on unstructured network , on the other side , spends less to maintain the network infrastructure , but costs more to search relevant information stored in remote nodes [ 29 ] . Plenty of works have been done to improve the searching performance in unstructured networks , for example neighbor indexing [ 8 ] , small world model [ 13 ] and semantic overlay network [ 9 ] . However , these works can only perform efficient IR when the relevant information to a query is stored in the neighborhood of the initiating node . In addition , it is costly to join a new node in the network , because random message dissemination is employed to find neighbors for the node . IR in hybrid system is proposed to combine the advantages of IR in both structured and unstructured networks , which is also the motivation of our work . 2.1 DHT based IR in self organized network DHT based IR in self organizing networks stores resources as {key , data} pairs in DHT and provides inquiring service given a key [ 17 ] . In ALVIS [ 19],terms are indexed for each document . It achieves efficient search performance , but costs too much to update the indices . Moreover , the indices are not scalable to the amount of documents . In Minerva [ 2 ] , terms are indexed for each node instead of document ; In [ 23 ] and TSS [ 4 ] , terms are replaced by highly discriminative keys(HDK ) which improves the scalability . In PCIR [ 21 ] a cluster based approach is proposed for publishing indices at low traffic cost . Besides , semantic searching is implemented in pSearch [ 7 ] , where CAN , a distributed indexing strategy for multi dimensional data , is employed to index document vector generated by latent semantic analysis(LSA ) . An extension of pSearch is proposed in [ 5 ] . 2.2 Query routing in unstructured network
In unstructured network , nodes join and leave without causing too much traffic cost . IR doesn’t rely on well structured indices , and queries are forwarded mainly in two ways : blind informed ways . In blind query forwarding , no hint is utilized to guide the query ’s next hop . Typical works include random walk [ 11 ] and iterative deepening [ 28 ] . In informed approaches , query forwarding is supervised by hints , for instance , routing indices [ 8 ] , small world links [ 13 ] , social communities [ 3 ] and semantic overlay networks [ 9 ] . Small world is a phenomena in social network , where any two peers can be connected by mutual acquaintances [ 16 ] . They have two properties : high cluster coefficient and low average hop between any two randomly chosen peers . The idea is introduced in unstructured network to construct both short and long links for nodes [ 14 , 24 ] . Short links are used to cluster nodes with similar resources , and long links to connect node clusters . The long links are often built based on those nodes whose resources belong to multiple clusters [ 12 , 9 , 1 ] . 2.3 IR in hybrid network
In [ 10 ] , a super peer based similarity search strategy is proposed for high dimensional data . The data is indexed by only few super peers . The sub peers with similar resources are connected to the same super peer . Since the querying task is loaded on only few super peers , this work might suffer from certain scalable problems when the network is in a very large scale . Other IR approaches involve small world model in CAN based IR approach [ 20 , 26 ] , small world model in super peer based network [ 6 ] , peer clustering based on CAN infrastructure [ 18 ] , and semantic overlay networks in structured network [ 27 ] .
3 . PROPOSAL
We show our semi structured semantic overlay in Figure 1 . A topic based indexing approach is designed on the structured super node layer . The indices are designed as <topic,node> pairs . Only the relatively stable nodes for each topic are indexed in order to save maintenance cost . New nodes can join in the overlay by inquiring the indices with its topic and getting access to the nodes having similar resources . Nodes with similar resources are allowed to connect and communicate to each other randomly . The semantic overlay is formed accordingly . By the random communication within the neighborhood on the semantic overlay , community shift(community enlarging and shrinking , and community topic shift ) could be captured . It could then be submitted to the structured super node layer , as a feedback to update the topic indices . We call it dynamic adaption in the rest of the paper . For searching information within the neighborhood/a community , query routing is performed using the random connections among nodes . For searching
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France204 Structured super node layer
Topici extraction
Indexing
Dynamic adaption
Communities
Unstructured node layer(semantic overlay )
Figure 1 : Semi structured semantic overlay information in distant community , we inquiry the topic indices stored on the super node layer , and then forward the query to corresponding community .
We will evaluate the performance of our proposal by considering its search efficiency , its cost in node joining and the scalability of its indices . The classic recall precision metrics will be employed to measure the searching efficiency ; Both the time and traffic cost will be evaluated for the node joining ; The scalability of the indices will be measured by observing if the increase of the network scale would also cause the increase of the index scale . We will compare our proposal with both the structured and unstructured approaches in the literature .
4 . TOPIC BASED INDEXING
The basic idea is to extract topics from the network resources as the indexing granularity . It is motivated by pivotbased metric space indexing [ 22 ] , where a small number of objects from the metric space are selected as pivots , and the index is built by storing the distances from each of them to the objects of the database . Searching space is sharply reduced by only comparing the distance between the query and the pivots . Since the topics as well as the super nodes are relatively stable in the network , this infrastructure is supposed to consume less maintenance cost and provides an efficient performance for node joining and inter community query routing . In addition , only the representative nodes for each topic are indexed on the structured super node layer . In other words , most of the nodes are not tightly controlled by the structured super node overlay once they join the network . They can build their own connections to the other nodes in the neighborhood . 4.1 Topic extraction
Problem statement Let {N1 , N2 , N3Nn} be n nodes in the self organized network . The topic of each node is represented by a vector Vi = {vi,1 , vi,2 , vi,3vi,D} with dimension D , which could be a semantic vector achieved by data mining techniques , the topic modeling approach Latent Dirichlet allocation for instance . Each element in the semantic vector refers to the contribution of corresponding dimension to the node ’s topic . The higher an element is , the more contribution the corresponding dimension makes . The topic vectors of all the nodes can be located as one point in this D dimensional space , which we call semantic space . Their similarity is measured by the distance of their locations . Our aim is to extract the topics shared by the topic vectors and design appropriate data structure to maintain them . They are supposed to work as the pivots in [ 22 ] .
Principally , a good set of pivots should be selected according to the data distribution(internal complexity ) in metric space . Since similar topic vectors tend to aggregate in the semantic space , every bunch of aggregated vectors corresponds to certain topic . To our best expectation , if the pivots are scattered on the central of aggregated vector bunches , new vector can easily find its brunch by comparing its distances to the pivots . The challenge in our case is how to extract the shared topics in an incremental way , because the topic vectors arrives incrementally along with new nodes joining the network .
Solution According to the formation of topic vectors , two vectors are similar to each other if only they are similar in a subspace of the full dimension which has high contribution to the topic . Therefore , we propose a subspace clustering approach to extract topics and represent them in subspaces . We collect a set of vector samples from the semantic space . By mapping the vectors into their D dimensions , we get D 1 dimension value sets . L principle values {pd,1 , pd,2 , pd,3pd,l} are selected from the value set in each dimension according to their intrinsic complexity . The selection of principle values in each dimension is performed as presented in [ 22 ] . The d refers to the dth dimension , and l refers to the lth principle value in this dimension .
After selecting principle values in each dimension , we remap the vector samples to the closest principle values in each dimension . Each vector is represented by its mapping route {p1,l , p2,l , p3,lpD,l} We extract the sub routes that pass h highest principle values in any dimension , and set it as one of the bootstrap pivots if it hosts a lot of vectors(this can be achieved via ordering decreasingly the number of vectors in each extracted route and selecting the first N routes {P1 , P2 , P3PN} ) We reserve the dimensions as well as the values for each pivot which are taken account for pivot selection as P dn = {(d , pd,l)} . In this way , the vector collection in the semantic space is divided into N + 1 brunches {C1 , C2 , C3CN+1} by the following measurement :
.
Vi ∈
Cn CN+1 if ∀d ∈ P dn,|vi,d − pd,l| ≤ M αd if Vi . Cn
( 1 )
Where vi,d is the dth element in Vi , pd,l is the dth element in pivot Pn , and M αd is the distance from the principle values pd,l to its adjacent principle value in the same dimension .
This operation is repeatedly performed when the number of vectors in one brunch is above a prefixed threshold . Finally , a tree structure is generated as showed in Figure 2 . The vectors are inserted in the tree by being associated with appropriate leaves via top to down lookup . The vectors in each leaf have similar topic and correspond to a bunch objects in the semantic space . Moreover , leaves whose vectors are in the adjacent neighborhood can also be connected by inquiring the tree . We assign unique identification for each node in the tree structure . Accordingly , we can generate a key for each topic vector by concatenating the identification of the nodes it passes . For example in Figure 2 , topic vectors V9 and V17 have the key OCC . The code for each node can also be calculated by other approaches .
4.2 Distributed indexing
Problem statement Since there is no central control in the network , indices have to be maintained in the distributed nodes and inquired distributively . In the literature , the only way to perform this task is the DHT based infrastructure .
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France205 O
Root
B
{5 , 0.32} {6 , 0.24}
A
{1 , 0.45} {2 , 0.28}
C
V2 V6 V8 V9 V10 V12 V13 V16 V17
V3 V4 V6 V7 V11 V18 OA
V1 V5 V14 V19
OB
A
{3 , 0.65} {6 , 0.20}
V2 V9 V13 V16
OCA
B
{3 , 0.65} {4 , 0.28}
V6 V8 V10 OCB
C
V9 V17
OCC
Figure 2 : Tree hierarchy of topic vectors
Specifically , it represents data objects as {key , object} pairs and keeps them in distributed nodes . Keys are distinguished for different data objects . In classic DHT based IR , the key is calculated by a predefined hashing function like SHA1 [ 19 ] or a pre trained model like LSA [ 5 ] . In this work , the keys for topic vectors can be calculated by checking the tree structure . It means each node in the network must keep the information about the tree in order to calculate the keys . However , it ’s not flexible to save the entire tree in every node .
Solution Suppose there is only one super node identified as O in the network at the very beginning . It corresponds to the root in the tree based index structure . As new nodes join in , their topic vectors are aggregated in this supernode . If the super node becomes overloaded , for example if the number of vectors are above a threshold , a set of pivots are selected . The vectors are divided into several brunches in this way . This is corresponding to branching a leaf in tree based index structure . We join several new super nodes in the network , and make each super node to manage one branch as well as its branching history . Super nodes refer to those nodes with longer online time and better communication bandwidth . They could be servers or ordinary nodes . The ID of each super node is assigned as the same as key of the data it stores . The super nodes are then organized into a Chord ring in am increasing order by their IDs , as showed in Figure 3 . Each super node stores indices of the topic vectors whose keys are the same to its ID . It also stores the branching history to calculate the keys for new joining nodes . It ’s also possible for one super node to manage the indices in more than one leaf if it has more power . In that case , the ID of the super node is assigned as the shared substring of the keys in its indices . For maintaining the network and forwarding the message , each super node keeps connections with its two adjacent neighbors in the ring . It also keeps a routing table which stores the information about the nodes 2m hops away , where m ≤ 0 and 2m ≤ n .
When a new node joins in the network by randomly connecting node Nr , its topic vector is sent to the super node of Nr . The key for the vector is calculated in this supernode and then forwarded to the super node which storing indices of this key . Since each super node only keeps part of the tree structure ( branching history of the leaves in it ) , it is unable to calculated a complete key for a topic vector out of its managing scope . In this case , we use the local tree structure to estimate a partial key for the new node , and forward it to a super node whose ID is partial matched to the key . In the new super node , the key is expected to
( cid:50 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50 )
( cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 ) ( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:50)(cid:36 )
( cid:85)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:74)fi(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:92 )
( cid:36 )
( cid:50 )
( cid:36 )
( cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:74)fi(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72 ) ( cid:50)(cid:36)ffi ( cid:50 ) ( cid:50)(cid:36)ffi ( cid:50 ) ( cid:50)(cid:36)ffi ( cid:50 )
Figure 3 : Chord based super node layer be completed and forwarded to the target super node . For inter community searching , the same operation is employed .
5 . DYNAMIC ADAPTION
As described in Section 3 , we only store the information of those relatively stable nodes in indices . The nodes within a neighborhood are connected by random links . In this way , more flexible node joining and leaving is allowed . While as described in [ 25 ] , dynamic node joining and leaving could effect the structure of the semantic overlay . We utilize the random links among nodes to detect these changes and submit them to the super node layer as a feedback . On our super node layer , the module of dynamic adaption is activated to make corresponding modification to the indices .
The structure changes we deal with include community enlarging , community shrinking and community topic shift . We formalize these changes as follows :
Definition 1 . Suppose in a fixed region of the semantic space R , there are M nodes forming a community . If more and more new nodes join in this region , we call it community enlarging ; If a large amount of nodes in this region are leaving the network , we call it community shrinking ; If no node leave , only their topics change and their locations move outside the region , we call it community topic shift .
The community enlarging can be detected by the super node that stores the community ’s index . For the community shrinking , it can be detected simply by routing through the random connection between nodes on the semantic overlay . A specifically defined message is activated periodically in a indexed node of the community . This message is flooded through the random links , and the number of the nodes is collected finally . If the number decreases largely comparing to the previous result , an adaption action is activated accordingly .
To perform the adaption , each node in the community inquiries the indices to find other community in the neighborhood . The connections are made between this node and those from the closest community , while this node dose not need to change its identification . By doing this , the shrinking community could not be isolated in the semantic overlay . If the node detects that its topic is closer to the nodes from the neighborhood community , the index for that community is modified to include this node as its member . In other words , the region of that community need to be enlarged ,
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France206 which corresponds to modifying one of the tree branches of the topic structure . Once the branch is modified , all the super nodes that keep this part of the tree need to be notified . This operation is performed by the infrastructure of the structured super node layer .
6 . CONCLUSION
In this proposal , we designed a topic based indexing approach to facilitate the formation of semantic overlay in selforganizing networks . It would achieve scalable and efficient node joining and inter community query routing . In addition , flexible communication is allowed among the nodes within the community , for the sake of network dynamics . he prototype of our proposal is being developed .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is funded by the co operation program between
China and UT INSA of France .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Bawa , G . S . Manku , and P . Raghavan . Sets : search enhanced by topic segmentation . In SIGIR , pages 306–313 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] M . Bender , S . Michel , J . X . Parreira , and T . Crecelius . P2p web search : Make it light , make it fly ( demo ) . In CIDR , pages 164–168 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] M . Bertier , D . Frey , R . Guerraoui , A M Kermarrec , and V . Leroy . The gossple anonymous social network . In Middleware 2010 , volume 6452 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 191–211 . 2010 .
[ 4 ] H . Chen , J . Yan , H . Jin , Y . Liu , and L . Ni . Tss :
Efficient term set search in large peer to peer textual collections . Computers , IEEE Transactions on , 59(7):969 –980 , 2010 .
[ 5 ] Y . Chen , Z . Xu , and C . Zhai . A scalable semantic indexing framework for peer to peer information retrieval . In SIGIR HDIR ’05 ) , volume 51 , page 20 , 2005 .
[ 6 ] L . T . M . Choong Yong Liang . Small world bee :
Reduce messages flooding and improve recall rate for unstructured p2p system . IJCSSNS , 11(5):88–99 , 2011 .
[ 7 ] T . Chunqiang , X . Zhichen , and D . Sandhya .
Peer to peer information retrieval using self organizing semantic overlay networks . SIGCOMM ’03 , pages 175–186 , 2003 .
[ 8 ] A . Crespo and H . Garcia Molina . Routing indices for peer to peer systems . In Distributed Computing Systems , 2002 . Proceedings . 22nd International Conference on , pages 23 – 32 , 2002 .
[ 9 ] A . Crespo and H . Garcia Molina . Semantic overlay networks for p2p systems . In AP2PC , pages 1–13 , 2004 .
[ 10 ] C . Doulkeridis , A . Vlachou , K . Nørv˚ag , Y . Kotidis , and M . Vazirgiannis . Efficient search based on content similarity over self organizing p2p networks . Peer to Peer Networking and Applications , 3(1 ) , 2010 .
[ 11 ] C . Gkantsidis , M . Mihail , and A . Saberi . Random walks in peer to peer networks . In INFOCOM , volume 1 , 2004 .
[ 12 ] J C Huang , X Q Li , and J . Wu . A semantic searching scheme in heterogeneous unstructured p2p networks . Journal of Computer Science and Technology , 26(6):925–941 , 2011 .
[ 13 ] H . Jin , X . Ning , and H . Chen . Efficient search for peer to peer information retrieval using semantic small world . WWW’06 , pages 1003–1004 , 2006 .
[ 14 ] W . Ke and J . Mostafa . Strong ties vs . weak ties : Studying the clustering paradox for decentralized search . In LSDS IR’08 , pages 49 – 56 , 2008 .
[ 15 ] W . Ke and J . Mostafa . Scalability of findability : effective and efficient ir operations in large information networks . In SIGIR , pages 74–81 , 2010 .
[ 16 ] J . Kleinberg . Small world phenomena and the dynamics of information . In NIPS , page 2001 . MIT Press , 2001 .
[ 17 ] J . Li , J . Stribling , T . M . Gil , R . Morris , and M . F .
Kaashoek . Comparing the performance of distributed hash tables under churn . In IPTPS04 , 2004 .
[ 18 ] M . Li , W C Lee , A . Sivasubramaniam , and J . Zhao .
Ssw : A small world based overlay for peer to peer search . IEEE Trans . Parallel Distrib . Syst . , 19(6):735–749 , 2008 .
[ 19 ] T . Luu , G . Skobeltsyn , F . Klemm , M . Puh , I . P .
ˇZarko , M . Rajman , and K . Aberer . Alvisp2p : scalable peer to peer text retrieval in a structured p2p network . VLDB , 1:1424–1427 , 2008 .
[ 20 ] G . S . Manku , M . Bawa , and P . Raghavan . Symphony :
Distributed hashing in a small world . In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems , 2003 .
[ 21 ] O . Papapetrou , W . Siberski , and W . Nejdl . Pcir :
Combining dhts and peer clusters for efficient full text p2p indexing . Computer Networks , pages 2019–2040 , 2010 .
[ 22 ] O . Pedreira and N . R . Brisaboa . Spatial selection of sparse pivots for similarity search in metric spaces . SOFSEM ’07 , pages 434–445 , 2007 .
[ 23 ] I . Podnar , M . Rajman , T . Luu , F . Klemm , and
K . Aberer . Scalable peer to peer web retrieval with highly discriminative keys . In ICDE , 2007 .
[ 24 ] P . Raftopoulou and E . G . M . Petrakis . icluster : A self organizing overlay network for p2p information retrieval . In ECIR , pages 65–76 , 2008 .
[ 25 ] P . Raftopoulou and E . G . M . Petrakis . Peer rewiring in semantic overlay networks under churn . OTM ’10 , pages 573–581 , 2010 .
[ 26 ] X . Sun . Scan : a small world structured p2p overlay for multi dimensional queries . In WWW’07 , pages 1191–1192 , 2007 .
[ 27 ] J . M . Tirado , D . Higuero , F . Isaila , J . Carretero , and
A . Iamnitchi . Affinity p2p : A self organizing content based locality aware collaborative peer to peer network . Computer Networks , 54(12):2056–2070 , 2010 .
[ 28 ] B . Yang and H . Garcia Molina . Improving search in peer to peer networks . In Distributed Computing Systems , pages 5 – 14 , 2002 .
[ 29 ] Y . Yang , R . Dunlap , M . Rexroad , and B . F . Cooper .
Performance of full text search in structured and unstructured peer to peer systems . In INFOCOM , pages 1 –12 , 2006 .
WWW 2012 – PhD SymposiumApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France207
