CASIS : A System for Concept Aware Social Image Search∗
Ba Quan Truong bqtruong@ntuedusg
Aixin Sun axsun@ntuedusg
Sourav S . Bhowmick assourav@ntuedusg
School of Computer Engineering , Nanyang Technological University , Singapore 639798
ABSTRACT Tag based social image search enables users to formulate queries using keywords . However , as queries are usually very short and users have very different interpretations of a particular tag in annotating and searching images , the returned images to a tag query usually contain a collection of images related to multiple concepts . We demonstrate Casis , a system for concept aware social image search . Casis detects tag concepts based on the collective knowledge embedded in social tagging from the initial results to a query . A tag concept is a set of tags highly associated with each other and collectively conveys a semantic meaning . Images to a query are then organized by tag concepts . Casis provides intuitive and interactive browsing of search results through a tag concept graph , which visualizes the tags defining each tag concept and their relationships within and across concepts . Supporting multiple retrieval methods and multiple concept detection algorithms , Casis offers superior social image search experiences by choosing the most suitable retrieval methods and concept aware image organizations .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Information Filtering
Keywords Flickr , TagIR , Tag Concept , Tag Relation , Image Search
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The availability of social tags on various image sharing platforms ( eg , Flickr ) raises the opportunity of building effective tag based social image retrieval systems . In contrast to content based image retrieval paradigm , which searches for visually similar images of a given query image , tag based image retrieval ( TagIR ) enables users to formulate semantic queries using textual keywords through an interface similar to Web search engines . Interestingly , similar to general Web search queries , the queries for tag based image search are usually very short , consisting of 2.2 tags on average for each search [ 10 ] .
A short query , particularly a single tag query , usually leads to a large number of potentially relevant images . More importantly , ∗ This work was supported by Singapore MOE AcRF Tier 1 Grant RG13/10 . Casis webpage : http://wwwntuedusg/home/axsun/casishtml
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
( a ) Query Qr(rock )
( b ) Query Qs(sea )
Figure 1 : Results for single tag queries : Qr(rock ) , Qs(sea ) . these images often represent multiple concepts because : ( i ) a singletag has limited expressiveness in precisely defining the information need , and ( ii ) social tags are noisy in nature as different users might have very different understandings of a particular tag in annotating and searching images . Figures 1(a ) and 1(b ) depict the search results of two sample single tag queries , Qr(rock ) and Qs(sea ) , respectively1 . Observe that the results of Qr capture two different concepts . Specifically , the highlighted images ( in green border ) are about rock music while the other images are related to stone rock or mountain . Similar phenomenon is observed for Qs . Although most images returned for Qs are good matches to the query , the highlighted ones are mainly related to ship and the remaining ones deal with seascape ( beaches , sky , clouds , etc ) This multiple concepts phenomenon might be attributed to the ambiguity of the query itself ( eg , rock ) or the different aspects of the query ( eg , sea ) , among other reasons . Importantly , a user is usually interested in only one of the concepts and not all of them . Consequently , displaying images representing multiple concepts in a single ranked list may adversely affect image search experiences .
In this demonstration , we present a social image search system called Casis ( concept aware social image search ) , which exploits the notion of tag concept ( or simply concept ) to address the aforementioned problem . The intuition is that a specific meaning or aspect of a short ( particularly single tag ) query can be well described by a group of highly related tags . Each such group of tags is referred to as a tag concept . Accordingly , images matching the query can be organized into groups , each of which matches one tag concept . For instance , Figure 2 depicts the reorganization of the search results of Qr(rock ) and Qs(sea ) in Casis according to their corresponding tag concepts . Note that , Casis supports queries consisting
1For clarity , we recommend viewing all figures presented in this paper directly from the color PDF , or from a color print copy .
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France425 a glance at image thumbnails could easily tell a user whether a set of images are relevant . Secondly , Web search results and social images are represented in very different feature spaces which calls for different clustering techniques . These two key differences pose new challenges toward realizing concept aware social image search . Particularly , it is important for Casis to provide an intuitive user interface to facilitate quick judgment of relevance as well as the flexibility in browsing multiple tag concepts . 2 . RELATED WORK Image Search Results Clustering . Most approaches for clustering image search results exploit low level visual features [ 3 ] . However , these approaches suffer from two problems : ( a ) semantic gap between the low level features and high level semantics and ( b ) low efficiency due to curse of dimensionality . IGroup [ 12 ] took a step towards addressing these limitations by exploiting textual features such as image captions , snippets , surrounding texts . The clustering is then accomplished by combining both visual features and textual features . In the context of social tagged images , shared nearest neighbors algorithm ( snn ) was applied to cluster images in a collection using both tag features and visual features [ 5 ] . In Casis , we aim to detect the concepts associated with a tag query and group the images according to the detected concepts . To be detailed in the next section , Casis is flexible enough to easily accommodate different clustering algorithms ( snn could be one of them ) . Tag based Image Browsing . Using tags in searching and browsing social images has been explored from multiple dimensions . The systems presented in [ 4 ] and [ 1 ] explore temporal and spatial dimensions , respectively . Other systems utilize multi faceted browsing to produce coherent image groups . The facets can be manually specified [ 11 ] or automatically detected using WordNet [ 7 ] or Wikipedia [ 6 ] . MediaFaces [ 11 ] extracts location , celebrity , movie entities from pre determined sources such as Yahoo!Travel , GeoPlanet , Wikipedia , etc . A query is then mapped to a stored entity whose related facets are then used to produce groups of semantically related images . Olive [ 7 ] extracts concepts from WordNet nouns for faceted browsing . WordNet , however offers relatively low coverage for the fast changing keywords such Flickr tags . To address this problem , Wikipedia is considered in [ 6 ] for improving the coverage which is then used in TagExplorer [ 8 ] , a faceted browsing system for Flickr photos . Different from faceted browsing where the facets are often pre determined , Casis detects tag concepts automatically in real time from the tagged images . Tag based Image Searching . Concept aware social image search relies on an effective TagIR ranking method to retrieve the images that best match the query before these images can be grouped into different concepts . In Casis we adopt the TagIR framework consisting of five orthogonal dimensions for flexibly defining a specific TagIR ranking method [ 10 ] . The five dimensions include tag relatedness for measuring the degree of effectiveness of a tag describing the tagged image , tag discrimination for quantifying the degree of discrimination of a tag with respect to the image collection , tag length normalization analogous to document length normalization in Web search , tag query matching model for computing matching score between an image tag and a query tag , and query model for rewriting tag queries . A systematic evaluation of hundreds of TagIR methods is reported in [ 10 ] . In [ 9 ] , we show that tag concepts can be used to improve image tag recommendation . 3 . SYSTEM OVERVIEW
In this section , we give an overview of the Casis system . Figure 3 depicts the system architecture . The tagged image retriever
( a ) Rock stone and Rock music Figure 2 : Results matching concepts for Q(rock ) and Q(sea ) .
( b ) Seascape and Ship of single or multiple tags . In this paper , we mainly use single tag queries for illustration purpose .
Intuitively , for a given query , Casis retrieves a set of images best matching the query mainly based on the relevance scores between the query tag(s ) and the images . This list of images serves as the initial search results to be presented to the user . From the initial results , the co occurring relationships among the frequent tags are identified to form a Tag Relation Graph ( trg ) . A node in a trg is a tag and the weight of an edge between two tags represents the strength of the co occurrence of the two tags . Figure 5(a ) gives an example trg for Qs(sea ) . A graph cut algorithm is then applied to ( softly ) cut the trg to form a Tag Concept Graph ( tcg ) . A tcg is a graph with meta nodes , each representing a group of tags . Tags in each group , linked by co occurrence relationships , jointly represent a tag concept . The links across meta nodes indicate the relationships between tag concepts . Note that two tag concepts associated with a query may be unrelated ( eg , rock music and rock stone ) or related ( eg , ship and seascape ) to each other . The concepts may also overlap if they share some identical tags . A tag concept may even subsume another by containing all the latter ’s tags as semantically concepts can be defined at different levels of abstraction . For visualization , trg and tcg are superimposed to illustrate the relationships between tags and tag concepts ( See Figure 5 ) .
The benefit of Casis is two fold . First , the search results in Casis are better organized into groups where each group of images is relevant to a more cohesive tag concept . Note that an end user may not always be aware of the existence of such concepts due to the collaborative nature of social tagging . Different users may use the same tag for different purposes and in very different manners . Hence , the tag concepts provide a superior mechanism to browse the search results . Second , by automatically identifying the tag concepts , the original tag query can be enriched by adding the concept specific tags . As the information need is now much more clearly defined , accurate image search results are expected for each concept enriched tag query . Note that in [ 10 ] we have empirically demonstrated that the search accuracy of a single tag query is largely affected by the choice of tag relatedness measure ( ie , the effectiveness of a tag in describing its annotated image ) and the matching model between the query tag and an image ’s tag ( see Section 2 for more details ) . However , for a multi tag query , the presence of all query tags in an image largely guarantees a very good match . Thus , Casis facilitates refinement of the original query by adding concept specific tags as well as retrieval of concept relevant images within the initial search results of the query .
Clustering search results and presenting the results in groups have been studied in traditional Web search setting ( see [ 2 ] for a survey ) . However , there are at least two key differences between Web clustering engines and concept aware TagIR . Firstly , there exists a fundamental difference in the way users perceive text and image data . In Web search engines , a user needs to read the title/snippet of a hit to judge its relevance , one by one . In contrast ,
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France426
Figure 3 : System architecture of Casis .
Figure 4 : Screenshot of the GUI of Casis for query Qs(sea ) . module retrieves a relatively large number of images for further processing by the initial results processor . The latter delivers the final results to the user through the user interface . We elaborate on various modules and components in turn . 3.1 User Interface
Recall that the user interface design is crucial in addressing the challenges in concept aware TagIR . Figure 4 depicts the the main gui of Casis using the query Qs(sea ) . It consists of three panels . User issues a tag query by keying keyword(s ) and the desired number of h image hits in the search panel ( Panel 1 ) . Clicking on the Casis label ( purple color ) will invoke the configuration dialog box to set various parameters . Once the query is processed , the top h image hits are displayed in the first tab ( labeled "All" ) in result panel ( Panel 2 ) . When we mouse over each image , its associated tags are displayed sorted by descending order of tag relatedness . Clicking on tab id on the top left corner of the result panel displays the top h image hits for the concept id . For example , in Figure 4 , the image hits for the tag concept ship , boat are displayed in Panel 2 . The corresponding tag concept id is highlighted in the tag concept graph visualized in Panel 3 , showing the relationship between tags within and across the concepts . Mouse hovering on the other parts of the tcg brings up other concept ids . Doubleclicking a tag in the graph refines the query by adding the tag into the query box in Panel 1 . The tcg visualization is implemented using Prefuse package2 allowing color coded tag concepts with overlapping and containment relationships . Mouse hovering a large
2http://prefuse.org/ concept may reveal sub concepts contained in it . Tag concepts are visualized using different background colors . 3.2 Tagged Image Retriever Module
Given a query Q containing one or more query keywords , this module retrieves top N images that best match Q where N is the predefined size3 of initial search results ( default setting N=5000 ) . Most TagIR algorithms can be adopted by this module , and in our implementation , we adopt the framework in [ 10 ] for supporting various settings in TagIR ( see Section 2 ) . This module relies on two databases , the tagged images and the tag index where the tag features are extracted by Global Tag Feature Extractor . The indexes are implemented using MySQL and Lucene , respectively . The images in the initial search results are then indexed in an in memory Lucene index for further processing . This in memory index will be used to search for concept specific images . Global Tag Feature Extractor . This component extracts queryindependent tag features ( eg , tag frequency , tag relatedness , tag associations , etc . ) from the collection of social images . We briefly discuss a subset of features used in Casis . Tag frequency of a tag t is the number of images annotated with t . Tag co frequency between two tags t1 and t2 is the number of images annotated by both t1 and t2 . These two features are used to compute tag associations ( or co occurrences ) using different measures ( eg , Jaccard coefficient , Pointwise Mutual Information , Pointwise KL divergence ) . To support the framework in [ 10 ] , the tag relatedness between an image and any of its annotated tags is computed and stored . The default tag relatedness is by neighbor voting . A tag t receives a high relatedness score towards image d if many of the nearest neighbors of d by visual similarity are also annotated by t . 3.3 Initial Results Processor Module
This module is responsible for constructing query dependent tag relation graph and tag concept graph . We detail the three major components in this module . Local Tag Feature Extractor . This component first extracts the tags that are most related to the query tags from the initial results . Hence the tags and their features extracted are query dependent . The features for the tags include tag frequency and tag co frequency for constructing tag relation graph . Given that there can potentially be a large number of distinct tags associated with all the images in the initial results , the key issue here is to determine which tags to consider for subsequent processing .
Let Td be the set of tags associated with an image d . For each image , we extract its top r related tags ordered by tag relatedness , where r = max(τ,fiρ∗|Td|' ) . Both τand ρare configurable in Casis ( ρ = 0.1 and τ = 4 by default ) . In other words , for each image , we want to consider a reasonably small set of tags that best visually describe the image . The main reason is that tags are noisy in nature and as a result many of them do not effectively describe the images . On the other hand , some images may not be well tagged and |Td| can be very small ; τis introduced to avoid a very small r . The extracted tags are then considered as candidate tags for constructing the tag relation graph , and subsequently tag concept extraction . Tag Relation Graph Constructor . This component constructs the tag relation graph ( trg ) from the initial results . The nodes in a trg are the most frequent tags among the candidate tags identified by the local tag feature extractor with respect to the tag frequency in the entire dataset . Let DQ be the initial results for query Q , and D be the entire dataset . The normalized relative frequency of a tag t
3If a query has fewer than N matching images , then all matching images are retrieved .
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France427 ( a ) Tag relation graph
( b ) K Nearest Neighbor
( c ) Affinity Propagation
( d ) Markov Clustering
Figure 5 : Tag relation graph for Qs(sea ) , and the tag concepts detected by different clustering algorithms .
Using this dataset , we aim to showcase the functionality and effectiveness of Casis in identifying multiple tag concepts and presenting concept aware TagIR results . Specifically , we shall showcase the followings . Tag Relation Graph and Concept Graph . Through our gui , we shall demonstrate how Casis identifies closely related tags as concepts from the initial query results , and visualizes tag relationships within and across tag concepts . We shall also showcase the effect of various tag association measures and clustering algorithms for concept detection problem . Concept Aware Image Search and Results Browsing . Using Casis , we shall demonstrate concept aware image search in action and real time visualization of results categorized by concepts . Recall that tags in concepts are also good candidate tags for query refinement . Hence , end users will also be able to interactively experience superior topic specific social image search when they select some of the tags ( by clicking nodes in tcg ) to refine their queries . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Ahern , M . Naaman , R . Nair , and J . H I Yang . World explorer : visualizing aggregate data from unstructured text in geo referenced collections . In JCDL , pages 1–10 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] C . Carpineto , S . Osi´nski , G . Romano , and D . Weiss . A survey of web clustering engines . ACM Comput . Surv . , 41:17:1–17:38 , July 2009 . [ 3 ] Y . Chen , J . Z . Wang , and R . Krovetz . Content based image retrieval by clustering . In MIR , pages 193–200 , 2003 .
[ 4 ] M . Dubinko , R . Kumar , J . Magnani , J . Novak , P . Raghavan , and
A . Tomkins . Visualizing tags over time . In WWW , pages 193–202 , 2006 .
[ 5 ] P A Moëllic , J E Haugeard , and G . Pitel . Image clustering based on a shared nearest neighbors approach for tagged collections . In CIVR , pages 269–278 , 2008 .
[ 6 ] S . E . Overell , B . Sigurbjörnsson , and R . van Zwol . Classifying tags using open content resources . In WSDM , pages 64–73 , 2009 .
[ 7 ] A . Popescu and P A Moëllic . Olive : a conceptual web image search engine . In ACM Multimedia , pages 147–148 , 2007 .
[ 8 ] B . Sigurbjörnsson and R . van Zwol . TagExplorer : Faceted browsing of flickr photos . Technical Report YL 2010 005 , Yahoo! Research .
[ 9 ] A . Sun , S . S . Bhowmick , and J A Chong . Social image tag recommendation by concept matching . In ACM Multimedia , pages 1181–1184 , 2011 .
[ 10 ] A . Sun , S . S . Bhowmick , K . T . Nam Nguyen , and G . Bai . Tag based social image retrieval : An empirical evaluation . JASIST , 62(12):2364–2381 , 2011 .
[ 11 ] R . van Zwol , B . Sigurbjörnsson , R . Adapala , L . G . Pueyo ,
A . Katiyar , K . Kurapati , M . Muralidharan , S . Muthu , V . Murdock , P . Ng , A . Ramani , A . Sahai , S . T . Sathish , H . Vasudev , and U . Vuyyuru . Faceted exploration of image search results . In WWW , pages 961–970 , 2010 .
[ 12 ] S . Wang , F . Jing , J . He , Q . Du , and L . Zhang . Igroup : presenting web image search results in semantic clusters . In CHI , pages 587–596 , 2007 .
|DQ| − d f ( t,D )
|D| is d f ( t,DQ ) , where d f ( t , S ) denotes the number of images in set S annotated by t . The number of nodes in a trg is n × log(|DQ| ) where n is configurable and set to 1.5 by default . An edge between two tags in a trg can be computed using any first order co occurrence measure . Casis also supports second order co occurrence . Specifically , for each tag in the trg node set , we get its top . most associated tags within the candidate tags by a selectable first order co occurrence measure ( . = 20 by default for efficiency ) . Together with the co occurrence scores , each tag is represented by a vector with . non zero entries . The second order co occurrence between two tags is computed by cosine similarity between two such vectors .
With second order co occurrence , edge weights between any pair of nodes in a trg are likely to be non zero , making the trg almost a complete graph . Thus , the edges are further filtered using k nearest neighbor and ε neighborhood models . The k nearest neighbor model keeps top k highest weight edges for each node . The ε neighborhood model prunes all edges whose weights are below a threshold ε . In Casis , we set k = 5 and εequals to the median of all edge weights . Tag Concept Graph Constructor . Finally , this component detects tag concepts from the trg using an existing graph cut or clustering algorithm . Notably , this component is designed to seamlessly incorporate different clustering algorithms ( both hard and soft clustering ) with different configurations , allowing users to explore different possible concepts . Casis currently supports five clustering algorithms , namely , Border Flow ( bf ) , Chinese Whisper ( cw ) , KNearest Neighbor ( knn ) , Affinity Propagation ( ap ) , and Markov Clustering ( mcl ) ( mainly based on the Cluster Visualization Kit4 ) . As it is unrealistic to predict the number of concepts in a search , we choose those clustering algorithms which do not require the number of pre defined clusters . Among them , bf , cw , and mcl support soft clustering enabling overlapping and subsumed tag concepts . Figures 5(b ) , 5(c ) , and 5(d ) , show the concepts detected for Qs(sea ) by knn , mcl , and ap , respectively . The concepts detected by bf are shown in Figure 4 . Note that , the query tag ( ie , sea ) is not shown in trg or tcg as it is related to all tags and all concepts .
For each detected concept , its tags are used to refine the query to get the concept specific results from the initial results , and then display them under a numbered tab ( id ) in the result panel . That is , Casis presents both the tags ( and their relationships ) defining each concept and the corresponding image results for the concept . 4 . DEMONSTRATION OVERVIEW
Our demonstration will be loaded with nus wide dataset . The original tags ( without cleaning ) of images are used in this demonstration . All global features ( eg , tag frequency , tag association , tag relatedness ) are pre computed by Global Tag Feature Extractor .
4http://borderflowsourceforgenet/
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France428
