Privacy Management for Online Social Networks
Gorrell P . Cheek , Mohamed Shehab
College of Computing and Informatics University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Charlotte , NC gcheek , mshehab@uncc.edu
ABSTRACT We introduce a privacy management approach that leverages users’ memory and opinion of their friends to set policies for other similar friends . We refer to this new approach as Same As Privacy Management . To demonstrate the effectiveness of our privacy management improvements , we implemented a prototype Facebook application and conducted an extensive user study . We demonstrated considerable reductions in policy authoring time using Same As Privacy Management over traditional group based privacy management approaches . Finally , we presented user perceptions , which were very encouraging .
Categories and Subject Descriptors D46 [ Security and Protection ] : Access Controls ; H53 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Group and Organizational Interfaces
General Terms Security , Human Factors
Keywords Privacy , Access Control , Policy , Social Network
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The large amount of content online coupled with the significant number of users makes maintaining appropriate levels of privacy very challenging [ 1 ] . We believe that tools need to be placed in the hands of users to aid them in managing their privacy . We aim to provide an improved approach for managing access to user profile data/content in online social networks . Our contribution is two fold : First , we introduce a privacy management approach for online social networks that leverages users’ memory and opinion of their friends to set policies for other similar friends , which we refer to as Same As Privacy Management . Using a visual policy editor that takes advantage of friend recognition and minimal task interruptions , Same As Privacy Management demonstrated improved performance and user perceptions over traditional group based privacy management approaches . Second , we implemented a prototype Facebook application and
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . conducted an extensive user study evaluating our improvements to privacy management in online social networks .
2 . SAME AS POLICY MANAGEMENT
In group based privacy management , the user must first group their friends . After which , they must select group permissions ( setting the group policy ) . Finally , friend level exceptions to the group policy are set . The user ’s attention ( mental model ) is focused on multiple areas . Whereas , in Same As Privacy Management , the user ’s attention is focused on a specific friend . The user leverages their memory and opinion of a friend to set policies for other like friends . In essence , we use a friend recognition approach , with minimal task interruptions , to aid the user in setting policies [ 2 ] . A representative friend is selected ( Same As Example Friend ) , profile object permissions are assigned to this example friend and other similar friends ( Same As Friends ) are associated with the same set of object permissions . Figure 1 illustrates our model . In the figure , the Same As Example Friend is depicted in front of the user ’s other similar friends who have been assigned the same set of object permissions .
Figure 1 : Same As Privacy Management Model
First , the user selects a friend ( Same As Example Friend ) that is representative of a subset of their friend set . The notion is that we all have subsets of friends that have similar levels of trust . The user selects one easy to remember friend from each subset as its respective representative .
Second , using our visual policy editor , the user assigns the appropriate object permissions for each object within their profile to this Same As Example Friend . For the purposes of our prototype , we presented three profile object categories : Albums , About Me and Education and Work . Within each profile object category , objects are presented . For example , About Me includes Birthday , Status , Current City , email , etc , see Figure 2 . The user can allow or deny access to any profile object or object category by simply clicking on the object or object category . For example , if the user doesn’t want the Same As Example Friend to have access to a spe
    WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France475 cific photo album , they merely click on that album and the object permission is set to deny . The selected photo album will be grayed out . Or , for example , if the user doesn’t want to allow access to any of their education and work information , they click on the object category Education and Work and the entire object category will be grayed out , thus effectively setting the permissions to deny for each profile object within that category . Any permutation of permissions are allowed .
Figure 2 : Visual Policy Editor
Third , after the permissions are set for the Same As Example Friend , other like or similar friends ( Same As Friends ) are assigned to the policy . The visual policy editor presents to the user their friend set , where the user can associate a friend to an already defined Same As Example Friend . Or , the user can designate a friend as a new Same As Example Friend , thereby setting a new policy which would be assigned to other similar friends .
3 . STUDY RESULTS
We compared the policy authoring times between Group Based Privacy Management and Same As Privacy Management . In analyzing these results , we found that there is statistical significance across all Westin user categories [ 3 ] , ie , Unconcerned Users ( p = 0.036 ) , Pragmatists ( p < 0.001 ) and Fundamentalists ( p =< 0001 ) Overall , Same As outperformed Group Based in policy authoring time . Across the board , we observed more than a two fold decrease in the amount of time it took a user to author their policy . One factor attributing to this reduction is the steps involved in authoring a policy . Group Based approaches have three distinct steps : 1 ) group friends , 2 ) set group policy and 3 ) assign friend level exceptions . Using this approach , the user first focuses on the friend ’s relationship in order to group them appropriately . Next , the user switches their attention to the group in order to set the group policy . Finally , the user switches their attention back to the friend in order to set any friend level exceptions to the group policy . Whereas , using our Same As approach , the user simply leverages their memory and opinion of a friend to set policies for other similar friends . As a result , users can author policies in less time and thus ease the burden associated with managing their online privacy settings .
We measured Policy Openness relative to a user ’s profile object ( ie , email address ) and found , for Unconcerned Users , no statistical significance between Group Based and Same As ( p = 0596 ) Unconcerned Users have “ little problem with supplying their personal information ” to others in either approach . However , we do see statistical significance between Group Based and Same As for Pragmatists ( p = 0.006 ) , Fundamentalists ( p = 0.022 ) and for the population as a whole ( p = 0002 ) Using Group Based , users associate the policy with a group . Whereas , using SameAs , users associate the policy with a friend and in doing so have the friend in the forefront of their mind . This allows users to be more selective and careful in assigning permissions . Users are thinking of people , not groups . In addition , as would be expected , our results show that Fundamentalists write more conservative policies than Pragmatists and Unconcerned Users .
Overall , users found Same As easier to use than Group Based , 5.97 versus 5.38 on a 7 point Likert scale , where 7 is Strongly Agree . We found statistical significance in our comparison ( p = 0007 ) Using Same As over Group Based , we observed statistical significance and improved Ease of Use ratings for Unconcerned Users ( p = 0.045 ) and Pragmatists ( p = 0008 ) We attribute the improved ratings to reasons similar to what was discussed with regard to the reduction in policy authoring time : reduced number of steps for authoring policies , our visual policy editor and consistent focus with limited memory interruption . However , from an Ease of Use perspective , there was no statistical significance for Fundamentalists ( p = 0604 ) One possible reason is that fundamentalists are very concerned about privacy and may consider privacy “ hard ” to attain regardless of the approach . Users found Same As to be substantially more readable than Group Based . There is statistical significance across all user categories . We attribute these high ratings to the simplicity of the Same As approach . Users could easily understand who had access to what profile object . Users found the organization of the information on the screen to be decipherable and ease to read . Using Same As , a user need only to recall their opinions of their friends in order to set access control policies . This was accomplished all on one screen . Whereas , the Group Based approach was more complex with multiple steps and screens .
4 . CONCLUSION
We introduced Same As Privacy Management , which leverages a user ’s memory and opinion of their friends to set policies for other similar friends . Our visual policy editor uses friend recognition and minimal task interruption to obtain substantial reductions in policy authoring times . In addition , Same As Privacy Management was positively perceived by users over traditional group based approaches .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Bonneau and S . Preibusch . The privacy jungle : On the market for data protection in social networks . In WEIS’09 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] S . T . Iqbal and B . P . Bailey . Investigating the effectiveness of mental workload as a predictor of opportune moments for interruption . In CHI’05 , 2005 . [ 3 ] P . Kumaraguru and L . F . Cranor . Privacy indexes : A survey of westin ’s studies . ISRI Technical Report , 2005 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France476
