Towards Situational Pattern Mining from Microblogging Activity
Nathan Gnanasambandam
Xerox Innovation Group
Xerox Corporation 800 Phillips Road Webster , NY 14580
Keith Thompson
Watson Institute of Systems
Excellence
Binghamton University Binghamton , NY 13902
Ion Florie Ho
Watson Institute of Systems
Excellence
Binghamton University Binghamton , NY 13902 nathang@xerox.com kthomps6@binghamton.edu iho1@binghamton.edu
ABSTRACT Many useful patterns can be derived from analyzing microblogging behavior at different scales ( individual and social group ) . In this paper , we derive patterns relating to spatiotemporal traffic flow , visit regularity , content and social ties as they relate to an individual ’s activities in an urban environment ( eg , New York City ) . We also demonstrate , through an example , methods for reasoning about the activities , locations and group structures that may underlie the microblogging messages in the aforementioned context of mining situation patterns . These individual and group situational patterns may be very crucial when planning for disruptions and organized response . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data mining ; K42 [ Computing Milieux ] : Computers and Society – social issues ; H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous . General Terms Experimentation , Measurement . Keywords Social media mining , Information management , situational awareness 1 . INTRODUCTION Social microblogging activity ( on such sites as Twitter , Tumblr etc . ) has been used for various research purposes including detecting emerging topics of interest in real time [ 1 ] and predicting the box office [ 2 ] . Microblogging data also contains valuable information that may be analyzed and applied toward situation pattern discovery . For instance , entity extraction and from microblogging activity have been used to detect earthquakes in real time and , thus , alert people to possible danger [ 3 ] . In this paper , we analyze a trace from a popular microblogging platform and attempt to deduce the characteristics of human movement in an urban environment . Furthermore , once we are situationally aware of inter block human flow and regularity patterns in a city ( we consider New York City ) and other contextual patterns based on location , we may be able to relate it to how it will affect an individual ’s activities in the event of a disruption or disaster . 2 . MINING MIROBLOGGING FEEDS Over a period of about seven months in 2010 , microblogging feeds generated by a community of users in the greater New York
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . the success of movies at location estimation
=
City area ( within the rectangular grid bounded by {40.45° latitude , 74.5° longitude} at the southwest corner and {41° latitude , 73.5° longitude} at the northeast corner ) were collected . These feeds contain spatio temporal information , conversational content and social ties between individuals . Our first objective is to isolate movement patterns in specific areas of the city . From these patterns , we hope to understand likely movement patterns of people or social groups . Our second objective is to derive a likely home base ( ie the centroid of the most frequented location cluster ) at an individual level and a characterization of various activities that this individual may be involved in either alone or with a group . With the help of the home base we determine which grids are regular with respect to a given set of users . Subsequently , we also utilize the content in the microblogging activity to inform us further about the situation . Our hypothesis is that we can utilize the knowledge so mined to reason about an individual ’s situational risk at a particular urban location . 3 . SITUATIONAL PATTERN MINING 3.1 Data Description As mentioned above , we consider a trace of microblogging activity in the greater New York City area . The data consists of GPS coordinates from which users either microblog or “ check in ” . From the data , it is apparent that the people are moving from place to place , often as a group . For the purpose of this study , users who have posted for a hundred times or more in the selected area have been retained , along with the GPS data , content and time stamp for each post . The resulting subset contains 1494 users . A typical post is in the format of :
Chilling in <event A> suite thx guys! ( @ Madison Square Garden w/ <person B> ) <hyperlink C>
The entities of interest in this post include the event ‘<event A>’ , the place ‘Madison Square Garden’ , the friend ‘<person B>’ and the attached hyperlink . From the messages , over time , we can infer the social ties between people . The attached hyperlink , ‘<hyperlink C>’ provides further information about the particular place in the post . 3.2 Flow Patterns The geographic area being studied covers over 5000 square kilometers . In order to establish the flow patterns at a granular level we divide the map area into 5500 virtual grids , each with an area of about one square kilometer . Any situational pattern we identify is with respect to a single grid . We first characterize what we mean by a flow . We delineate all time stamped and GPS marked activity at the granularity of a day or portions thereof . During the course of a day , we track the movement of people from place to place , or alternately from grid to grid using pairs of messages ( mi , mi+1 ) of the same person taken from the trace .
WWW 2012 – SWDM'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France661 These daily movement patterns form the basis for computing the inand out flows with respect to every grid . For each grid we compute the number of messages that either terminate at or emanate from it . We also keep track of the cardinal and intermediate directions from which these movements originate or proceed towards . As a result , we get two 8 vectors Finj and Foutj constituting the in and outflows for each grid j . In Figure 1 , we show the flows computed for a certain portion of New York City . are likely to aggregate ( and microblog ) from those locations . To the contrary regions with negative netflow may be closer to transportation routes . With such flow information , we can reason about a specific group of individuals . Such information will not only inform us to the likely change in movement behavior but also which grids specific groups of people visit or leave . This also raises an interesting question as to why people stay close to certain grids . In the next section , we attempt to infer some aspects that further characterize these grids .
Figure 1 . Inflows on a portion of New York City ( size is proportional to number of microblogging messages )
From Finj and Foutj , we know the proportion of flows in different directions for every grid . We represent these fractions as a pie chart at the center of each grid . Not all grid locations are shown as they do not exceed the minimum threshold of messages ( in this case at least 30 visits by our population of 1494 subjects ) . These flow numbers give a precise indication of where people come from or go to . For example , in Figure 2 we show two inflows – the one of the left shows inflows in every direction whereas the flow from the right grid indicates that people travel from the East , South East , South , South West and West directions . These pie charts also show the change in flow conditions from the previous observed month . While many factors including where people reside influence these flows , we also know that the grid indicated in Figure 2(a ) is close to a many dining spots and likely attracts people from various directions . Using just microblogging activity , we have also been able to compute the changes of incoming traffic patterns relative to the previous month from the various directions .
Figure 3 . Net flow information for a portion of Manhattan , NY ( a ) indicates the flow over a busy portion of Manhattan
( b ) inflow outflow for the same grid for the same region within Manhattan
3.3 Regularity Patterns With respect to the same grid structure , we can determine if people visit some grids more regularly than others . The grids that are regularly visited by a group of users are also called nontransient grids . These grids might be areas that are closer to a person ’s home or workplace . By the same token , grids that are primarily used as “ pass through ” grids are called transient grids . In [ 4 ] , we propose an algorithm to differentiate between transient and non transient grids . An example of such regularity behavior is shown in in Figure 4 . Determining regularity is predicated on what the likely operating base of a user is and , as shown in [ 4 ] , estimates based on microblogging activity are possible .
Figure 2 . ( a ) ( clockwise from orange ) Fraction of inflows in different directions {N , NE , E , SE , S , SW , W , NW} and ( b ) ( clockwise from blue ) Fraction of inflows in the directions {E , SE , S , SW , W} and changes from the previous month
Furthermore , from just the microblogging activity we can also compute the net flows ( ie Fj = Finj Foutj ) with respect to the same grids as shown in Figure 3 . With Fj , we can estimate where people are likely to arrive or depart . Regions with positive netflow ( as indicated by the color blue in Figure 3b ) indicate more people
Figure 4 . Transient and Non transient grids for a group of people visiting Manhattan , NY
At the core of estimating whether some grids are transient or regular with respect to visits by a person or group is the concept of a home base . In our case , the home base is estimated by performing density based clustering ( using DBSCAN ) over all coordinates visisted by a user to determine the most probably location(s ) .
WWW 2012 – SWDM'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France662 3.4 Content and Social Patterns Even microblogging may have enough content to establish patterns on the basis of what the users do along with their social circle . In this particular case , we have been observing what areas were visited by our target population . For example , the user A has been frequenting a lot of restaurants and bars in the New York City area . Shown in Figure 5 is a tag cloud of the various categories of content mentioned in the microblogging activity representing the relative importance of various aspects , mainly restaurants for the two users A and B .
Figure 5 . Tag cloud of user A ( above ) and user B ( below )
User B is in the social circle of user A and has many similar dining interests as mined from the relative frequency of content included in microblogging activity . One difference that stands out is the interest of user A in tech startups and art , whereas User B tends to talk about “ office ” more . While these characterizations are preliminary , it can be observed that interest patterns on topics such as dining , work and art can be established relative to each other . In addition to inferring information about the categories of places visited from the actual content of microblogs , we are also able to associate the various categories with both grid locations and social networks . For example , Figure 6 shows how location , content , and friendship are related to each other for user A .
Examples of activities indicated in Figure 6 include {American Restaurant , Dive Bar , Wine Bar , Snack Place , Coffee Shop , Mexican Restaurant} , {Nightclub} . Furthermore , the social activities ( in this case primarily dining ) of people as they move around in groups can also be determined . This is shown in Figure 7 .
{House} ,
{Office} ,
User B
User A
Figure 7 . Content and social activities of Users A and B
4 . SITUATIONAL PATTERNS Our analysis has been able to unearth many situations from just mining microblogging activity . Combined with knowledge about other occurrences ( such as traffic conditions , disruptions or disasters ) , the mined situational patterns whether personal , social or spatio temporal can help with any sort of response . We discuss an example below extracted for the month of September 2010 for user A and the group this user belongs to .
Figure 6 . Connecting content ( dining situations ) , grids ( locations ) and social circles
Figure 8 . Flow and regularity patterns as it relates to Users A and B
WWW 2012 – SWDM'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France663 Figure 9 . Content Pattern for User A
From the situational patterns ( flow , regularity and content ) we can surmise that for user A , grids 2773 and 2668 feature prominently in the activities . Firstly it should be noted that grid 2773 has many restaurants and grid 2668 has a number of transit points ( ie subway routes and stations ) , office buildings and schools . We estimate that it is highly likely that grid 2773 acts as a frequent dining destination for user A while either of grid 2773 or 2668 is a work location . Our estimate is supported by the following individual and group situational patterns : d . For user B who is the social network of user A , grid 2668 is a home base . Additionally user A and user B are co mentioned in many messages/activities and share many friends in common ( as shown in Figure 7 ) . some techniques
While automating the aforementioned reasoning is part of ongoing work , we have established to mine microblogging activities . Based on the patterns unearthed we can establish the likelihood of users and their social groups being involved in a subset of activities , locations and the flow directions of their movement . Further we can compare these individual or group likelihoods with the bigger population . This kind of analysis , we believe , can be utilized in locating and determining response strategies in situations that may involve disruptions . Furthermore , these response strategies can be targeted to the individual or their social group . 5 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we have established techniques to mine social microblogging activity from the perspective of flow , regularity ( transience ) and content . We have analyzed data ( essentially millions of microblogging messages ) from an urban environment . We also established a chain of reasoning that may assist with unearthing where and what a user may be involved in and with whom . These individual and group situational patterns may be very crucial when planning for disruptions and organized response . In particular , it may provide the capability to generate personalized evacuation planning and disaster recovery strategies . Using this work as the basis , future work will cover disaster planning aspects and how plans may relate to individuals tactically and strategically . a . From the flow patterns outlined in Figure 8a , it is apparent that people were traveling mostly from {N , NE , E} directions into grid 2723 . This indicates that user A may be traveling from 2668 to 2723 for the same reason that most others are , ie for dining . b . The regularity pattern further supports the point about both grids 2773 and 2668 being very important for user A . We know that for user A , either of 2668 and 2723 is a home base/operating base as the clustering algorithm DBSCAN . We also know that for the overall group these two grids are non transient ( see Figure 8b ) , again indicating that this grid pair are regular locations . indicated by c . Both aforementioned reasons are reinforced by the content patterns shown in Figure 9 . For the month of September 2010 , the two grids have the highest incidence of dining locations and some mentions of the activity “ office ” . This again points to these two locations dine out destinations . preferred work being and
WWW 2012 – SWDM'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France664 6 . ADDITIONAL AUTHORS Additional Authors : Sarah S . Lam ( Binghamton University , email : sarahlam@binghamton.edu ) and Sang Won Yoon ( Binghamton University , email : yoons@binghamtonedu ) 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Cataldi , M . , Di Caro , L . , and Schifanella , C . 2010 . Emerging
Topic Detection on Twitter Based on Temporal and Social Terms Evaluation . Proceedings of the Tenth International Workshop on Data Mining ( Washington , DC , July 25 ) , 1 10 . [ 2 ] Asur , S . , and Huberman , BA . , 2010 . Predicting the future with social media . In Proceedings of the International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent
Technology ( Toronto , Ontario , August 31 – September 3 ) , 492 499 .
[ 3 ] Sakaki , T . , Okazaki , M . , and Matsuo , Y . 2010 . Earthquake shakes twitter users : Real time event detection by social sensors . In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on the World Wide Web ( Raleigh , North Carolina , April 26 – 30 , 2010 ) . WWW’10 . ACM , New York , NY , 851 860 . DOI= http://doiacmorg/101145/17726901772777
[ 4 ] Ho , IF , Gnanasambandam , N . , Thompson , K . , Lam , S . , and
Yoon , SW 2012 . Mining transient vs . non transient user movement behavior in urban environments . In Proceedings of the Industrial and Systems Engineering Research Conference ( Orlando , FL , May 19 – 23 ) . ISERC’12 .
WWW 2012 – SWDM'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France665
