Investigating Bias in Traditional Media through Social
Media
Arjumand Younus*yff , M . Atif Qureshi*yff , Suneel Kumar Kingraniy , Muhammad Saeedy ,
Nasir Touheedy , Colm O’Riordan* , Pasi Gabriellaff
*Computational Intelligence Research Group , Information Technology , National University of Ireland , ffInformation Retrieval Lab , Informatics , Systems and Communication , University of Milan Bicocca , yWeb Science Research Group , Faculty of Computer Science , Institute of Business Administration , ayounus , maqureshi@ibaedupk , suneelkingrani@gmailcom , saeed@uokedupk ,
Karachi , Pakistan
Galway , Ireland
Milan , Italy ntouheed@ibaedupk , colmoriordan@nuigalwayie , pasi@discounimibit
ABSTRACT It is often the case that traditional media provide coverage of a news event on the basis of journalists’ viewpoints a problem termed in the literature as media bias . On the other hand social media have given birth to an alternative paradigm of journalism known as \citizen journalism" . We take advantage of citizen journalism to detect the bias in traditional media and propose a simple model for empirical measurement of media bias .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Sociology
Keywords media bias , social media , named entities , topic models
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the emergence of Web 2.0 there has been a tremendous increase in the usage of social Web applications which have considerably changed the nature of how media operate . This has given birth to an alternative paradigm of social media for journalism on the Web . This paradigm has caused people to shift from traditional media ( newspapers , television etc . ) to social media sites like Twitter to find news [ 1 ] . In fact social media have given birth to the concept of citizen journalism with ordinary citizens now playing an active role in news dissemination and discussion . It has been observed that mass media remain largely controversial in nature due to being controlled by \the elite few" . On the other hand social media provide a forum for the masses to express their concerns and opinions . A few examples are shown in Table 1 .
Despite the hype surrounding social media as an alternative paradigm for journalism there has not been much investigation into how social media differ from traditional media in news reporting . Our hypothesis is based on the notion that the alternative journalism paradigm of social media can serve as a test bed for the measurement of bias in the traditional media platforms . Using publicly available data on media sources , we conducted a study of bias in traditional media . We also propose a simple method ( built on top of topic models ) to measure the bias in traditional media through the use of social media .
2 . QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF COVER
AGE FOR A MAJOR EVENT
How do traditional media outlets and social media differ in the coverage of an event ? To answer this question we conducted a study of the coverage patterns of the two sources ( ie , NYTimes articles and tweets ) during the Egyptian uprising in January , 2011 .
For our experiments , data were gathered using the TREC 2011 microblog track and we gathered all tweets from 23rd January , 2011 to 28th January , 2011 . This data significantly covers the time period of the Egyptian revolution which was an event heavily tweeted by the masses and social media activists alike . We simultaneously collected all the New York Times articles regarding the Egyptian revolution for
Tweet
Date 26th Jan What is wrong with the TV channels?! No news about #egypt!!! #Jan25 #Arab #Media to everyone
27th Jan A call in Egypt : Boycott all national governmental newspapers ( Al Ahram , Al Akhbar , Al Gomhoreya ) . Spread it . #Jan25 dispar@BrianKeene : 28th Jan RT Egypt media in ity CNN=peaceful coverage : protests . FOX=violent protests . MSNBC=Charlie Sheen banged porn star .
US
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Table 1 : Tweets expressing anger against media during Egypt uprising
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France643 Extra Entities
Date 23rd Jan . Muslim Brotherhood , Al Qaeeda , Iran , Osama bin Laden Clinton , Montreal , Canada 24th Jan . Hamas 25th Jan . Al Nahda , Jeffrey D . Feltman 26th Jan . Jeffrey D . Feltman , Moktada al Sadr 27th Jan . Al Qaeeda , Margaret Scobey , Benjamin Netanyahu 28th Jan . Margaret Scobey , Safwat el Sharif , Ayman Nour
Jordan , Mubarak , France , Sarkozy Ben Wedeman , ElBaradei , Wikileaks , Ayman Nour Alexandria , Suez , Bradley Manning , Saleh , Ben Wedeman Wikileaks , Khaled Said , Libya , Tahrir Square Julian Assange , Nour DSL , Anonymous , Gamal Mubarak
Entities Missed
Table 2 : Details of missing and extra entities between Traditional and Social Media the same period . The time period was chosen on account of the high level of media bias exhibited at the start of the Egyptian revolution . Figure 1 shows the jaccard similarity scores for entity sets in the two media ( social and traditional ) . As evident from the figure , the bias is quite high in terms of entity coverage and it remains below the 0.5 threshold . Table 2 provides a list of some significant extra and missing entities for the time period of our analysis .
Traditional Media Social Media
Date 14th Nov . 3 15th Nov . 4 19th Nov . 3 22nd Nov . 2 23rd Nov . 3 27th Nov . 5
1 2 0 0 1 2
Figure 1 : Jaccard Similarity between Traditional and Social Media
Table 3 : Ranking Difference for News Items in Traditional and Social Media with simultaneous collection of news data from five local news sources namely Express Tribune , Dawn News , The Nation , Daily Times and The News . A manual coder prepared a manually ranked list of news topics ( obtained through standard LDA ) which was then compared against the lists obtained from Twitter and traditional news sources . The Spearman footrule values for both of them are given in Table 3 2 . Traditional news sources have a wider disparity in the ranks and hence there is strong presence of media bias in the traditional media .
4 . FUTURE WORK
While our model detects bias in traditional media outlets we hope that a few more considerations can improve the model to reflect various aspects of the media bias process . One significant aspect we intend to focus on as future work is sentiment analysis of social media sources .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . An , M . Cha , K . Gunmadi , and J . Crowcroft . Media landscape in Twitter : A world of new conventions and political diversity . In Proceedings of 5th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , pages 18{25 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . J . Mach . Learn . Res . , 3:993{1022 , Mar . 2003 .
[ 3 ] W . X . Zhao , J . Jiang , J . Weng , J . He , E P Lim ,
H . Yan , and X . Li . Comparing twitter and traditional media using topic models . In Proceedings of the 33rd European conference on Advances in information retrieval , ECIR’11 , pages 338{349 , Berlin , Heidelberg , 2011 . Springer Verlag .
2The table shows a snapshot of the results .
3 . MEASURING BIAS IN TRADITIONAL
MEDIA FOR DAY TO DAY EVENTS
We propose a simple media bias measurement model for day to day news items built on top of topic models . We gather the set of article topics ( from online news sources ) and tweet topics ( from tweets of well known social media activists ) . This is done by applying the standard latent dirichelet allocation ( LDA ) topic model[2 ] to news articles and Twitter LDA[3 ] to tweets . The topics extracted are then compared against each other so as to find similar topics ( using an empirically set JS divergence threshold ) . Similar topics found from both the datasets are then ranked as follows .
For the topics t found from news articles we perform the ranking using the metric newsarticlerank . Here , A is the total number of articles for a particular day while Pr(t j a ) is obtained from LDA .
P jAj fi js , divergence a"A Pr(t j a ) newsarticlerank =
For tweets ranking is performed by simply counting num ber of tweets assigned to a topic . 1
We collected all tweets of Pakistani citizen journalists ( social media activists ) for the month of November , 2011 along 1Note that this ranking is performed for the similar topics of news and tweets .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France644
