News Comments Generation via Mining MicroBlogs
Xuezhi Cao † Kailong Chen† Rui Long† Guoqing Zheng† Yong Yu†
† Dept . of Computer Science
& Engineering
@sjtueducn
Shanghai Jiao Tong University
Shanghai , China
{cxz,chenkl,longrui,gqzheng,yyu}
ABSTRACT Microblogging websites such as Twitter and Chinese Sina Weibo contain large amounts of microblogs posted by users . Many of these microblogs are highly sensitive to the important real world events and correlated to the news events . Thus , microblogs from these websites can be collect as comments for the news to reveal the opinions and attitude towards the news event among large number of users . In this paper , we present a framework to automatically collect relevant microblogs from microblogging websites to generate comments for popular news on news websites .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Information Filtering
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords Twitter , News Events , Relevance , Content Analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Microblog has become one of the most popular online social networking , such as Twitter and Chinese Sina Weibo . It allows users to share information with their friends or the public by posting text messages of up to 140 characters , which is called a microblog . Most users update their microblog frequently and over 200 million tweets are generated on Twitter per day . Microblog messages are sensitive sensors of detecting important world events and highly correlated to the news medias [ 4 , 3 ] . Utilizing these microblog streaming data , our framework automatically collects relevant comments for popular news on news websites .
News comments have become an important component of published news on many news websites such as Yahoo and AOL . People can obtain opinions and attitudes towards the news events and engage in discussion . However , many people are reluctant to discuss about events with strangers publicly . Some news get few comments which is not objective to analyze the attitudes of the public . With the explosion of
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Microblog , Internet users have more opportunities to express their opinions about the world events than before [ 2 ] . From this point of view , microblog is a rich source for collecting varieties of opinions from the public .
Past research has focused on event detection by analyzing microblogs [ 3 ] [ 1 ] and concluded microblogs is very sensitive to real world events . Other works also made comparing between the topics from microblogs and from traditional media [ 5 ] , states that microblogs may have different aspect of view from the news articles . By summarizing all these facts , we conclude that microblogs are good resources for generating comments for news . In this paper , we propose a framework to mining relevant news comments from Microblog data . In the remainder of this paper , we discuss the technical details of the framework and experimental results .
2 . CALCULATING RELEVANCE SCORE
First we extract the keywords from both news data and microblog data . Noun phrases , name entities , hashtags are regarded as keyword candidates . Intuitively , if a news event are heatedly discussed in microblogs , the frequency of newsrelated word has an obvious appreciation in time series . In practise , we use the ratio between maximum frequency and the average frequency of the given keyword as its weight . The weight for a keyword w is calculated as :
.
Gw =
M ax(w ) + α Avg(w ) + β
( 1 )
Here M ax(w ) and Avg(w ) indicates the maximum and the average frequency of term w in days during the time period . α(= 5 in experiments ) and β(= 5 ) are smoothing parameters . This time series based keyword filtering strategy considers the importance of a word in a global view . To consider the content relevance between news and microblogs , we use the co occurrence times of keywords as the basic evidence . In order to distinguish title fields and content fields in news , we redefine the content relevance score as below : L(w , N ) =λcontent × #w appears in content f ield of N
+ λtitle × #w appears in title f ield of N
( 2 ) λcontent(= 15 ) and λtitle(= 40 ) are parameters which indicates the importance of words appearing in title and content of the news .
Integrating the content relevance and news related measurement of a word , given a microblog S and a news article
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France471 N , the relevance score is calculated as below : Tw × L(w , N ) × Gw
R(S , N ) = fi w∈K
MAP@100
Baseline
( 3 )
Keyword Filtering
MAP@50 Baseline
Keyword Filtering
51.85 % 72.86 %
Political Entertainment 58.88 % 65.96 % Political Entertainment 63.34 % 68.18 %
57.62 % 76.67 %
Table 1 : Effect of Keyword Filtering Strategy . that they perform better in the political category comparing to the entertainment . For pseudo relevance feedback , the size of the keyword set after feedback is 1.3 time as large as the origin . But the pseudo relevance feedback method may bring noisy keywords and reduce the precision . People often gossip about a singer and use many informal words which are not relevant to the news article . That is why relevance feedback gets more improvement on the political category because tweets about politics are often written officially and formally . In the future , we plan to use the collected comments from microblogs to do opinion classification and sentiment analysis for comments summarization . i i n o s c e r P e g a r e v A n a e M
0.8
0.75
0.7
0.65
0.6
None Pseudo Feedback Decay with Time
1
Political
MAP@100
2
Entertainment
MAP@100
3
Political MAP@50
4
Entertainment
MAP@50
Figure 1 : Comparison of Feedback and Decay methods
4 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The team is supported by grants from NSFC RGC joint research project 60931160445 .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . Becker , M . Naaman , and L . Gravano . Beyond trending topics : Real world event identification on twitter . In ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] L . Gandy , N . Nichols , and K . Hammond . Shout out : integrating news and reader comments . In WWW , pages 1095–1096 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 3 ] T . Sakaki , M . Okazaki , and Y . Matsuo . Earthquake shakes twitter users : real time event detection by social sensors . In WWW , pages 851–860 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 4 ] J . Sankaranarayanan , H . Samet , B . Teitler ,
M . Lieberman , and J . Sperling . Twitterstand : news in tweets . In GIS , pages 42–51 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] W . Zhao , J . Jiang , J . Weng , J . He , E . Lim , H . Yan , and
X . Li . Comparing twitter and traditional media using topic models . Advances in Information Retrieval , pages 338–349 , 2011 . kfi
Here Tw is the term frequency of the word w in status S . In our time series keyword filtering strategy , K are keyword candidates with weight Gw larger than a threshold Gthr(= 15 )
However , some microblogs related to the news are not retrieved to the top because they have few words occurred in the news article . For example , informal language such as nickname or abbreviation used in microblogs will cause this issue . We solve this problem by applying pseudo relevance feedback . We refine the keyword set and re calculate the term weights by taking the top k ranked microblogs into consideration . These microblogs are used to enlarge keyword set which is not appear in the original news article . The pseudo relevance feedback is embodied by modifying the value of occurrence time L(w , N ) : fi L
( w , N ) = L(w , N ) + γ1
( k + 1 − i)Rw,i + γ2M
2 w ( 4 ) i=1
Here Rw,i is the term frequency of w in the ith microblogs retrieved , γ1(= 1 ) and γ2(= 1 ) are parameters , and Mw is the number of microblogs which contains w in the top k microblogs .
A microblog related to a news event is more likely to appear in a short period before or after the news article is published . We modify the relevance value between microblog and news according to the length of time period between their appearance . The final relevance value R ( S , N ) is calculated by multiplying the relevance value by a decay coefficient function : fi fi
( S , N ) = R(S , N ) × ( 1 − D2 λT
)
( 5 )
R
Where D is the the length of time period between their appearance , λT ( = 1000 ) is the parameters to control the decaying speed .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
We use Sina Weibo , the largest Chinese microblogging website as experimental data source . We crawled Sina Microblog from January 1th , 2011 to March 8th , 2011 through streaming API and finally collected 20 million microblog messages published by 6.8 million users . In news data set , 71 popular news on Sina.com are picked up and classified into two categories : political news and entertainment news . For each news , microblogs are retrieved according to relevance score . Each resulting microblog is manually labeled as relevant or non relevant to the given news article and the performance are measured by using mean average precision . We begin by evaluating the performance of our method for keyword detection . For comparison , we use all noun phrases , name entities,hashtags from news and microblogs to form the keywords set as a baseline . The experiments show that selecting and weighting the keywords with frequency analysis highly improve the baseline ( Table 1 ) . To evaluate the effects of pseudo relevance feedback and decaying with time method , we compare the experimental results within and without applying them . Figure 1 shows that they all have positive effect on the ranking performance . Also we observe
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France472
