Influence Propagation and Maximization for Heterogeneous Social Networks
Cheng Te Li1 , Shou De Lin1 , Man Kwan Shan2
1 Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia , National Taiwan University , Taipei , Taiwan
2 Department of Computer Science , National Chengchi University , Taipei , Taiwan
{d98944005 , sdlin}@csientuedutw , mkshan@csnccuedutw
ABSTRACT Influence propagation and maximization is a well studied problem in social network mining . However , most of the previous works focus only on homogeneous social networks where nodes and links are of single type . This work aims at defining information propagation for heterogeneous social networks ( containing multiple types of nodes and links ) . We propose to consider the individual behaviors of persons to model the influence propagation . Person nodes possess different influence probabilities to activate their friends according to their interaction behaviors . The proposed model consists of two stages . First , based on the heterogeneous social network , we create a human based influence graph where nodes are of human type and links carry weights that represent how special the target node is to the source node . Second , we propose two entropy based heuristics to identify the disseminators in the influence graph to maximize the influence spread . Experimental results show promising results for the proposed method . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications – Data mining . General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Design . Keywords Influence propagation , influence maximization , social networks . 1 . INTRODUCTION Social network plays a key role for the spread of information and influence for viral marketing and online advertising . For example , advertisers may want to promote certain product via a social network . They have limited number of samples and aim to find a subset of initial users to test them , such that these users have higher potential to influence their friends if they like the product . Then through the wordof mouth effect , a larger population in the network would adopt such product . This problem , termed influence maximization [ 3 ] , is to find a set of influential individuals ( called seeds or disseminators ) such that they can eventually activate the largest number of people in a social network . So far some greedy [ 3][6 ] and heuristic [ 1][2 ] methods are proposed to effectively and efficiently solve this problem . Besides , there are some variations to tackle different real world requirements . Leskovec et al . [ 5 ] propose to select a set of social sensors such that their placements can efficiently detect the propagation of information or virus in a social network . Lappas et al . [ 4 ] proposes to find a set of effectors who can cause an activation pattern as similar as possible to the given active nodes in a social network . Existing proposals and solutions on influence maximization focus mainly on networks with only a single type of nodes and links . In this paper , we propose to model the influence propagation in heterogeneous networks which contains multiple typed labels on nodes and links . An example is shown in Figure 1 . We believe through exploiting different types of objects and interactions/relationships , it is possible to design a more realistic and useful influence spreading mechanism .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
In this work , we consider the relational behaviors between nodes of human type to model the influence propagation in a heterogeneous social network . The basic idea is to transform the heterogeneous network to a probabilistic influence graph , in which nodes contains only human types and the weights on edges are probabilities derived by computing how regular the target node is to the source node using high order relations ( ie , two persons are connected via one or more relations ) between them . In addition , we consider two kinds of human interactions to model the influence propagation , the regular and rare behaviors . The former tends to spread the influence to those persons whose interaction behaviors are frequent with respect to the individual , while the latter is designed to activate the special friends ( their interaction behaviors are rare wrt the individual ) . We capture the interaction behaviors based on the high order relations between persons , and thus determine the influence probability between persons by computing the relative frequency of the sequence of relation types , according to which kind of behavior is chosen . Using the modeled influence graph , we present two entropy based heuristics to find the disseminators by influence maximization .
Figure 1 . An example heterogeneous movie network , containing four types of nodes ( Actor , Director , Writer , Movie ) and five types of relations ( WriteScript , HasActor , SpouseOf , Direct , OriginateFrom ) . Note that the node types A , D , and W are types of persons . Preliminary . First , a heterogeneous social network H=(VH,EH,L ) is a directed labeled graph , where VH is a set of nodes , L is a set of relation labels , and EH⊆VH×L×VH is a set of edges . Given a triple <source , label , target> representing an edge , the function type(E)→ {{l1,…,lj} , li∈L , j≥1} maps each edge eH onto its set of typed labels . 1,u ) such Note that the inverse edge set E 1 is the set of all edges ( v,li that ( u,li,v)∈E . Second , a influence graph G=(V,E,W ) is a bi directed graph , where V is a set of nodes , E is a set of edges , and W is a weight function mapping each directed edge e to an influence probability p(u→v)∈[0,1 ] . Third , we provide two kinds of behavior options , ie , ‘REGU’ and ‘RARE’ , corresponding to the normal and special behaviors respectively . Fourth , we use the Independent Cascade ( IC ) model [ 3 ] for the information propagation . Let S be the set of seed nodes . In IC model , in time step t each active node u has a single chance to activate each of its inactive neighbors v with a certain probability p(u→v ) . If u succeeds , v will become active at step ( t+1 ) . Otherwise , u will not activate v again . The influence spread of S is the expected number of activated nodes given seed set S . Problem Statement . ( 1 ) Given a heterogeneous social network H , a range of local neighborhood r , and a behavior option OP∈{‘REGU’ ,
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France559 ‘RARE’} , transform H into an influence graph G=(V,E,W ) . ( 2 ) Given an influence graph G , a budget ( integer ) k , find a set of k nodes S⊆V as the disseminators such that the influence spread is maximized using the independent cascade model . 2 . THE PROPOSED METHOD Our method consists of two stages : ( 1 ) behavior based influence modeling , and ( 2 ) the entropy based node selection . Behavior based Influence Modeling . Our model for influence propagation in a heterogeneous social network can be divided into two parts : ( a ) generating the influence probability from one person to another according to their relational interactions , and ( b ) constructing an influence graph containing nodes with human types ( eg actor , director , and writer in a movie network ) . We exploit the relational structure in the neighborhood of each human node to model his/her personal behaviors . We first extract the r step neighbor subgraph H’v for each human node v . Constraining the size of the neighborhood is reasonable since it is usually assumed farer away nodes do not have as significant influence as the closer ones . Then , to capture the personal behavior of v , for each human node u in H’v , we find the shortest path path(v , u ) and extract the relation sequence rs=<l1,,ld> , where li ( i=1,,d ) is the relation labels along path(v , u ) and d=|path(v , u)| . Then for each human node v , we can collect a set of relation sequences RSv to describe the personal behaviors of v . For example , in Figure 1 , the RSA1 is {<spouse of> , <HasActor 1 , HasActor> , <HasActor 1 , WriteScript 1> , <HasActor 1 , Direct 1>} . We add all the human nodes into the influence graph G . A directed edge ( v→u ) connected v to u is established if and only if there the shortest path between them is smaller than r . The second step of the behavior based modeling is to compute the influence probability p(v→u ) as the edge weight in G according to the specified behavior option OP and the extracted set of relation sequence RS . Since each outgoing edge ( v→u ) of v in G represents a relation sequence rs∈RSv in H’v , we can compute the number of times each rs occurs in H’v . This number is denoted by Nv(rs ) . Then based on the behavior option OP , we compute the contribution value for each rs∈RSv to capture how significant v performs the behavior rs . And this contribution value is used as the influence probability p(v→u ) . The influence probability is defined as p(v→u ) = Nv(rs ) / Σx∈RSv Nv(x ) , if OP =‘REGU’ , p(v→u ) = 1 – ( Nv(rs ) / Σx∈RSv Nv(x) ) , if OP = ‘RARE’ .
In other words , if we specify the ‘REGU’ as the option , one will have higher probability to activate those neighbors he/she frequently interacts with . We also can say a person tends to propagate information to its regular friends . If the option is ‘RARE’ , it indicates people tend to have significant impact on those have special meanings ( ie friends that it interacts differently ) for them . For example , if OP=‘REGU’ , A1 can affect other actors easily . But if OP=‘RARE’ , A1 has higher potential to activate its spouse . The choosing of behavior options provides a flexible of influence propagation and can either depend on the nature of data or user ’s preference . Note that we normalize p(v→u ) such that the sum of p for all outgoing edges of a node v equals to be 1 . Entropy based Node Selection . Based on the influence graph G , we propose two entropy based heuristic methods to select effective seed nodes for influence maximization in a heterogeneous network . The first utilizes the entropy value of the probabilistic weighs on outgoing edges of a node . Those with higher entropy values are selected as seeds . And in our behavior based influence modeling , it is common for nodes to have more neighbors . The second heuristic is called entropy discount whose idea is based on degree discount [ 2 ] . The idea is that if an active node v successfully activates its neighbor u through the outgoing edge ( v→u ) , we should not take count the outgoing edge ( u→v ) towards u ’s entropy . We should discount and recalculate u ’s entropy . The entropy discount is performed as each time activating an inactive node during the process of influence propagation . 3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We conduct the experiment on a real world heterogeneous network . The goal is to demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed behaviorbased influence modeling and two entropy based heuristics for influence maximization in a heterogeneous social network . The UCI KDD movie data ( http://kddicsuciedu/databases/movies/ ) is used to compile the heterogeneous network containing 39,212 nodes and 84,145 edges . There are 20 node types ( 11 types are about human ) and 44 relation types . The modeled influence graph contains 25,943 nodes and 132,983 edges . To be fair , we compare our two entropybased heuristics to two degree based heuristics in [ 2][3 ] . To obtain the influence spread , for each selected seed set , we run the IC model on the influence graph 20,000 times and compute the average of the influence spread as the final score . Besides , we compare their final score by varying the size of selected seed set from k=1 to 51 and r is set as 2 . The result is shown in Figure 2 . We can find our entropy discount ( EntropyDis ) outperforms others , especially when k is large .
Figure 2 . Experimental results by varying the number of seeds . 4 . CONCLUSION We propose to consider the personal behaviors of each individual to model the influence propagation in a heterogeneous network . Based on the given option of normal or special behavior , we compute the influence probability as weights between persons and derive the modeled influence graph . Besides , we present two entropy based heuristics to select seed nodes as the disseminators in the influence graph . Experimental results on real world movie data show the effectiveness of the proposed method . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This work was supported by National Science Council , National Taiwan University , and Intel Corporation under Grants : NSC 1002911 I 002 001 , and 10R70501 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] W . Chen and C . Wang . Scalable Influence Maximization for Prevalent
Viral . Marketing in Large Scale Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
[ 2 ] W . Chen , Y . Wang , and S . Yang . Efficient Influence Maximization in
Social Networks . In KDD 2009 .
[ 3 ] D . Kempe , J . Kleinberg , and E . Tardos . Maximizing the Spread of Influ ence through a Social Network . In KDD 2003 .
[ 4 ] T . Lappas , E . Terzi , D . Gunopulos , and H . Mannila . Finding Effectors in
Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
[ 5 ] J . Leskovec , A . Krause , C . Guestrin , C . Faloutsos , J . VanBriesen , and N .
Glance . Cost effective Outbreak Detection in Networks . In KDD 2007 .
[ 6 ] Y . Wang , G . Cong , G . Song , and K . Xie . Community based Greedy Algorithm for Mining Top k Influential Nodes in Mobile Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France560
