Ubiquitous Access Control for SPARQL Endpoints :
Lessons Learned and Future Challenges
Luca Costabello , Serena Villata , Nicolas Delaforge , Fabien Gandon
INRIA Sophia Antipolis , France firstnamelastname@inriafr
ABSTRACT We present and evaluate a context aware access control framework for SPARQL endpoints queried from mobile .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services
General Terms Design , Algorithms
Keywords SPARQL , Context Awareness , Access Control
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In the Web of Data [ 6 ] , providers expose their content publicly , knowing that it is not safe . This may prevent further publication of datasets , at the expense of the growth of the Web of Data itself . Moreover , the mobile , ubiquitous Web is continuously evolving , enabling new scenarios in consuming and contributing to the Web of Data . We must therefore not ignore the mobile context in which data consumption takes place . In this paper , we propose a context aware access control framework for protecting SPARQL endpoints , adopting exclusively Semantic Web languages . Two main features distinguish the policies in our framework from related research : ( i ) triple level granularity ( using Named Graphs [ 2 ] ) and ( ii ) the support for context information , eg requester location , nearby people , device features , time , etc . Other works with similar scope have been proposed . We differ from WAC1 since we go beyond RDF document granularity and we do not rely on access control lists . Sacco and Passant [ 7 ] present the PPO vocabulary2 to express access control policies for RDF documents . Flouris et al . [ 5 ] provide a fine grained access control framework on top of RDF repositories coupled with a high level specification language translated into a SPARQL/SerQL/SQL query to enforce the policy . Finin et al . [ 4 ] consider attribute based access control where , similarly to our proposal , the constraints are based
1http://wwww3org/wiki/WebAccessControl 2http://vocabderiie/ppo
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Figure 1 : The access control framework architecture . on general attributes of an action . Context information is supported to some extent by Abel et al . [ 1 ] . They provide triple level access control as a layer on top of RDF stores . Contextual conditions are pre evaluated before expanding the queries . Toninelli et al . [ 8 ] adopt context awareness and semantic technologies for access control but they do not apply their solution to the Web of Data .
2 . OUR PROPOSAL
Our system relies on two complementary lightweight vocabularies , S4AC3 for access control , and PRISSMA4 for modelling the mobile context . Access Policies protect a named graph , thus targeting single triples , if needed . As seen in Figure 2 , each Access Policy is associated to a privilege level and includes a set of contextaware Access Conditions , ie constraints that must be satisfied , conjunctively or disjunctively , to access the protected resources . Access Conditions are implemented as SPARQL ASK queries . At runtime , Access Policies are associated to the actual mobile context used to evaluate the set of Access Conditions . For what concerns the mobile context , we agree with the widely accepted proposal by Dey [ 3]5 . In our model , context is seen as an encompassing term , an information space defined as the sum of three different dimensions : the User model , the Device features and the Environment in which the request is performed . Our Access Control Manager is designed as a pluggable component for SPARQL endpoints ( Figure 1 ) . The access control evaluation procedure is described below : ( 1 ) the mobile consumer queries the SPARQL endpoint . Contextual information is sent along with the query and saved as named graph using SPARQL 1.1 Update Language statements6 ;
3http://nsinriafr/s4ac 4http://nsinriafr/prissma 5More specifically , we rely on http://bit.ly/XGR mbui 6http://wwww3org/TR/sparql11 update
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France487 ( a )
( b )
( c )
Figure 3 : Response time overhead instance , we may deal with access control and obfuscation rules for tracking mobile users . Our current framework works on top of standard compliant SPARQL endpoints . However , the model consists in a set of general rules providing true/false answers . One further challenge is to generalize our framework to support other linked data access strategies such as follow your nose , thus decoupling our solution from SPARQL wrapped RDF stores .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] F . Abel , J . L . De Coi , N . Henze , A . W . Koesling ,
D . Krause , and D . Olmedilla . Enabling Advanced and Context Dependent Access Control in RDF Stores . In ISWC , LNCS 4825 , pages 1–14 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] J . J . Carroll , C . Bizer , P . J . Hayes , and P . Stickler .
Named graphs . J . Web Sem . , 3(4):247–267 , 2005 .
[ 3 ] A . K . Dey . Understanding and using context . Personal
Ubiquitous Computing , 5:4–7 , 2001 .
[ 4 ] T . W . Finin , A . Joshi , L . Kagal , J . Niu , R . S . Sandhu ,
W . H . Winsborough , and B . M . Thuraisingham . ROWLBAC : representing role based access control in OWL . In SACMAT , ACM , pages 73–82 , 2008 .
[ 5 ] G . Flouris , I . Fundulaki , M . Michou , and G . Antoniou .
Controlling Access to RDF Graphs . In FIS , LNCS 6369 , pages 107–117 , 2010 .
[ 6 ] T . Heath and C . Bizer . Linked Data : Evolving the Web into a Global Data Space . Morgan & Claypool , 2011 .
[ 7 ] O . Sacco and A . Passant . A Privacy Preference
Ontology ( PPO ) for Linked Data . In LDOW , 2011 .
[ 8 ] A . Toninelli , R . Montanari , L . Kagal , and O . Lassila . A Semantic Context Aware Access Control Framework for Secure Collaborations in Pervasive Computing Environments . In ISWC , pages 473–486 , 2006 .
Figure 2 : A sample Access Policy
( 2 ) the client query is filtered by the Access Control Manager instead of being directly executed on the SPARQL endpoint ; ( 3 ) the Access Control Manager selects the set of policies affecting the client query and after their evaluation returns the set of accessible named graphs ; ( 4 ) the client query is executed only on the accessible named graphs and ( 5 ) the result of the query is returned to the consumer .
The Access Control Manager has been implemented as a Java EE component and plugged to the Corese KGRAM RDF store and SPARQL 1.1 query engine7 . Prototype evaluation with the Berlin SPARQL Benchmark dataset 3.18 shows that : ( i ) larger datasets are less affected by the delay introduced by our access control framework , as datastore size plays a predominant role in query execution time ( Figure 3a ) , ( ii ) when the access is granted to a small fraction of named graphs , the query is executed faster than the case without control on the accesses ( Figure 3b ) , and ( iii ) performance is affected by the number of active mobile consumers , each associated to a mobile context graph , ie , the delay of the SPARQL 1.1 Update operations depends on the size of the triple store and on the number of named graphs ( Figure 3c ) .
3 . FUTURE CHALLENGES
The proposed access control framework is conceived as an easy to integrate pluggable filter for data servers that support the SPARQL query language . Our framework relies only on Semantic Web languages , since no other formalism has been added . On the other hand , supporting mobile context for access control leads to several open problems . For instance , the trustworthiness of contextual information sent by mobile consumers should not be taken for granted . Context verification techniques are therefore needed , along with a mechanism to authenticate the consumer ’s identity9 . We are aware that sensible data such as current location must be handled with a privacy preserving mechanism . For
7http://tinyurl.com/corese engine 8http://bit.ly/berlin sparql 9http://wwww3org/2005/Incubator/webid/spec
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France488
