Review Spam Detection via Time Series Pattern Discovery
Sihong Xie† Guan Wang† Shuyang Lin† Philip S . Yu† ‡
† Department of Computer Science , University of Illioins at Chicago , Chicago , IL ‡ Computer Science Department King Abdulaziz University Jeddah , Saudi Arabia
{sxie6 , gwang26 , slin38 , psyu}@uic.edu
ABSTRACT Online reviews play a crucial role in today ’s electronic commerce . Due to the pervasive spam reviews , customers can be misled to buy low quality products , while decent stores can be defamed by malicious reviews . We observe that , in reality , a great portion ( > 90 % in the data we study ) of the reviewers write only one review ( singleton review ) . These reviews are so enormous in number that they can almost determine a store ’s rating and impression . However , existing methods ignore these reviewers . To address this problem , we observe that the normal reviewers’ arrival pattern is stable and uncorrelated to their rating pattern temporally . In contrast , spam attacks are usually bursty and either positively or negatively correlated to the rating . Thus , we propose to detect such attacks via unusually correlated temporal patterns . We identify and construct multidimensional time series based on aggregate statistics , in order to depict and mine such correlation . Experimental results show that the proposed method is effective in detecting singleton review attacks . We discover that singleton review is a significant source of spam reviews and largely affects the ratings of online stores .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data Mining
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords Review spam , time series , adversarial data mining
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Previous works use review contents and reviewers’ behaviors [ 2 , 3 , 1 ] to detect spams . These methods only work in the situations where spammers write many reviews . In reality , however , most reviewers write only one review . This is due to the nature of spamming . In order to manipulate the rating quickly without being caught , it is highly desirable for a spammer to post many reviews in a short time under different names . This spamming strategy makes it appear that
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . most reviewers contribute only one review ( called a singleton review , SR for short ) . Most of the statistics adopted by previous works would not work on such singleton reviews . For example , the mean and standard deviation of ratings given by a reviewer [ 2 ] become meaningless if this reviewer has written only one review . Based on abnormaly correlated temporal pattern mining , we construct multidimensional time series and present a method to detect these singleton review attacks . We also use multiple resolutions to handle short term fluctuations in time series and locate the time of attacks .
2 . THE PROPOSED TECHNIQUES
To raise or lower the rating of a store safely and rapidly , spammers tend to post a large number of reviews with a high or low rating under different names . Therefore , if there is a sharp increase in the volume of ( singleton ) reviews while the rating also increases or decreases dramatically , it is highly likely that the rating is manipulated by the newly arrived reviews . Therefore , we can detect SR attacks by exploiting the correlation between the rating and the volume of ( singleton ) reviews . 2.1 Time Series Construction Given all reviews for a store , their ratings are R(s ) = {r1 , . . . , rns} with posting time T S(s ) = {ts1 , . . . , tsns} , where tsi < tsj for all 1 ≤ i < j ≤ ns . Given a time window size Δt , we can split the time into consecutive time windows In = [ t0 +(n−1)Δt , t0 +nΔt ] , n=1 In . For each time window In , we calculate three aggregate statistics using the SRs falling into that time window .
.N
I = f1(In ) = rj/f2(In ) , f2(In ) =|{ rj : tsj ∈ In}| fi tsj∈In f3(In ) = |{rj : tsj ∈ In , rj comes from an SR}|/f2(In ) f1(In ) , f2(In ) and f3(In ) are the average rating , the number of reviews and the ratio of singleton reviews within the time window In , respectively . 2.2 Correlated Abnormal Patterns Detection in Mul tidimensional Time Series
We use a three step approach for the detection . First , on each dimension , we fit a curve using the time series . We then apply longest common substring ( LCS ) algorithm to match the fitted curves to a template representing bursty patterns . We slide the template across each time series . For each time point during the sliding , LCS gives the number of
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France635 5 4
.
0 4
.
5 3
.
0 3
.
5 2
.
0 0 8
0 0 6
0 0 4
0 0 2
0
9 0
.
8 0
.
7 0
.
6 0
.
5 0
. g n i t a r i s w e v e r f o r e b m u n
R S f o o i t a r
0
10
20 time
30
40
Figure 1 : Bursty Patterns Detected in Store 24938
Table 1 : Human evaluation results on stores Evaluator 1 Evaluator 2 Evaluator 3
Evaluator 1 Evaluator 2 Evaluator 3
17
14 20
16 19 24 matched points between the template and the current section of the time series overlapping the template . We also consider the range of the time series within the overlapping section . Putting the number of matches and the range together , we can measure the intensity of bursts for each time point on each dimension of time series . We retrieve top k bursty sections from each dimension . Lastly we slide a window of a certain size over the time axis . At each point , we find out how many top ranked locations in all dimensions are in the time frame specified by the current time window . A time window is reported if all three dimensions have bursty patterns fall into the window . One example of the output of the algorithm is shown in Figure 1 .
221 A Hierarchical Framework for Robust Single ton Review Spam Detection
Given the review records of a store , one can construct the multidimensional time series with different time window sizes ( resolutions ) . If the window size is set too small , the general trend of a time series would be buried in a large number of fluctuations , which might cause high false positive rate . We first smooth out short term fluctuations using a larger window ( lower resolution ) . We then fit curves out of these time series and detect any suspicious periods with correlated abnormal patterns , which indicate the high likelihood of SR spam attacks . A smaller window size ( higher resolution ) can be used to reveal more details ( eg the exact time of the burst ) . This is accomplished by constructing new time series with a higher resolution on the detected periods , and detecting any finer suspicious period . This process continues until one reaches the desired resolution such that the time when the SR spam attack can be easily pinpointed .
3 . EVALUATION
We evaluate the proposed algorithm on the review data crawled from a review website1 . It contains 408,469 reviews written by 343,629 reviewers ( identified by their id on
1 wwwresellerratingscom
Table 2 : Human evaluation results on reviews Evaluator 1 Evaluator 2 Evaluator 3
Evaluator 1 Evaluator 2 Evaluator 3
59
20 41
28 38 72 the website ) for 25,034 stores . 310,499 out of all reviewers ( > 90 % ) wrote only one reviews . We employ three human evaluators in this experiment .
In the evaluation we select 53 stores , each of which has more than 1,000 SRs . The proposed algorithm detects 33 stores out of them . For each detected store , we select reviews around the time point when the bursty patterns appear . These reviews are then examined by three evaluators and their opinions are recorded . If there are two or more evaluators believe that a store has ever committed an SR spam attack , we consider it to be a dishonest store . The precision of the proposed algorithm , when detecting such dishonest stores , is 75.86 % ( 22/29 ) . Table 1 shows the agreement between evaluators . The numbers on the diagonal show how many stores does each evaluator considers as dishonest . The other numbers give how many stores that both two evaluators identify as dishonest stores .
We also ask three human evaluators to examine 147 reviews contained in one of the detected bursts in one suspicious store . Each review is given a score ( 0 negative , 0.5possibly , 1 positive ) to indicate the degree of being regarded as a spam review by each evaluator . Among the 147 reviews , 43 reviews ( 38 are SR ) have final score higher or equal to 2 , and 12 reviews ( 11 are SR ) have final score equal to 3 . This indicates that the proposed algorithm can locate the period when singleton spams concentrate . Table 2 is similar to Table 1 , except that the results are based on the human evaluations on the detected reviews .
4 . CONCLUSION
This paper studies the problem of singleton review spam detection , which is both difficult and important to solve . We transform this problem to a temporal pattern discovery problem . We identify three aggregate statistics which are indicative of this type of spam attack , then we construct a multidimensional time series using these statistics . We design a multi scale anomaly detection algorithm on multidimensional time series based on curve fitting . Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm is effective in detecting singleton review spams .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work is supported in part by Google Mobile 2014
Program .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Mukherjee A , Liu B , Wang J , Glance N , and Jindal N .
Detecting group review spam . WWW ’11 .
[ 2 ] Lim E P , Nguyen V A , Jindal N , Liu B , and Lauw
H W . Detecting product review spammers using rating behaviors . CIKM ’10 .
[ 3 ] Jindal N , Liu B , and Lim E P . Finding unusual review patterns using unexpected rules . CIKM ’10 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France636
