Personalised Placement in Networked Video
Jeremy Foss
School of Digital Media Technology
Birmingham City University
Birmingham , UK +44 121 331 7416 jeremyfoss@bcuacuk
Benedita Malheiro
Engineering Institute of Porto Polytechnic Institute of Porto
Porto , Portugal
+351 228 340 500 mbm@isepipppt
Juan Carlos Burguillo
Telecommunication Engineering
School
University of Vigo
Vigo , Spain
+34 986 813869 training , gaming or
ABSTRACT Personalised video can be achieved by inserting objects into a video play out according to the viewer's profile . Content which has been authored and produced for general broadcast can take on additional commercial service features when personalised either for individual viewers or for groups of viewers participating in entertainment , informational activities . Although several scenarios and use cases can be envisaged , we are focussed on the application of personalised product placement . Targeted advertising and product placement are currently garnering intense interest in the commercial networked media industries . Personalisation of product placement is a relevant and timely service for next generation online marketing and advertising and for many other revenue generating interactive services . This paper discusses the acquisition and insertion of media objects into a TV video play out stream where the objects are determined by the profile of the viewer . The technology is based on MPEG 4 standards using object based video and MPEG 7 for metadata . No proprietary technology or protocol is proposed . To trade the objects into the video play out , a Software as a Service brokerage platform based on intelligent agent technology is adopted . Agencies , libraries and service providers are represented in a commercial negotiation to facilitate the contractual selection and usage of objects to be inserted into the video play out . Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Systems ] : Systems and Software , Distributed [ Information Systems ] : systems , User profiles ; H51 [ Computing Multimedia Methodologies ] : Distributed Artificial Intelligence . General Terms Video , personalization , near real time . Keywords Personalisation ; targeted advertising ; interactive TV ; object based video ; metadata , multi agent brokerage system . 1 . INTRODUCTION Personalisation of content is an increasing requirement to engage and narrow cast ( or niche cast ) to end user consumers [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] . The commercial media distribution industry is currently focussing on targeted advertising with projected revenue increases of several
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Information
Systems ;
I211
JCBurguillo@detuvigoes times the revenues of traditional spread shot advertising . Product placement is now becoming an accepted method of advertising , although the current methods are not on a personalised basis . The continued integration of interactive services with networked video allows service providers an increasing capability to capture viewer usage habits , including Video on Demand ( VoD ) statistics and interactions , and potentially data gathered from Internet usage , eg , wish lists , purchases and profiles from selected on line stores , social media interaction , etc . The project described here focuses on two main aspects : ( i ) the video network and technologies to allow the integration of arbitrary external objects into the video play out ; and ( ii ) the commercial platform to allow objects to be selected and integrated into the original source content according to the viewer profile . This is a complex task considering the knowledge management effort required to process the various streams of information to achieve a high degree of personalisation . These two development aspects are discussed below to produce a solution for personalised placement of objects into networked media . Figure 1 demonstrates the principle whereby objects hosted from independent libraries ( eg content producer agencies ) are sought and integrated into the source play out programme . The scenario used to illustrate the concept is the personalisation of advertising content . In this context , content producers are advertising agencies eager to place advertising artefacts in the video streams of target viewers . Content distributors are video on demand providers that intend to offer viewers a personalised advertising experience . To achieve this goal , distributors have to build and maintain the viewer profiles . In this scenario there is a requirement for a sports car to be placed in to the scene . In a search for a suitable “ sports car ” video object , the library has a suitable match , so the object is selected and imported into the programme stream . The suitability of the match depends largely on the profile and the known personal preferences of the viewer . However , the sourced content may specify ( via the metadata of the source file ) that only specific classes of sports car are allowed . For example , to fit the editorial integrity of the programme , cars of a certain year of manufacture or colour may not fit the story line of the film . This is specified as a requirement and will be taken into account when the selection is made for a "sports car" object from external libraries . There would likely be a fee to be negotiated and paid by any agency wishing to have artefacts ( objects representing their clients' advertising repertoire ) placed into to a video play out . Consequently a commercial brokerage of the objects is envisaged where objects are sought and traded in to the play out in near real time . Clearly some objects are easier to integrate into a video scene than others . Static objects , eg a bottle of wine on a dining table , are relatively easy . The sports car example given above may be somewhat challenging if the car is in motion and undergoing many perspective changes throughout a scene .
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France959 Figure 1 . Objects can be acquired from a library and inserted into the source play out
Video producers may shoot and edit programmes to allow for easier object integration , depending on the development of video processing technologies to allow for the seamless addition of object into a scene . Such considerations include the resolution of the added objects , lighting , dynamics , etc . 1.1 Video Technology for Integrating Objects Apart from more efficient video compression , MPEG 4 [ 3 ] is specified to offer object based media components representing 2D and 3D graphics , audio and video ( eg , sprites ) [ 4 ] . Media objects are compressed and coded into the play out file for transmission to the viewer . For commercial media distribution , the MPEG 4 file is served as part of a VoD service operator's network . Alternatives to MPEG 4 are also considered and will be briefly discussed in section 22 In Digital Multimedia Broadcasting ( DMB)1 media objects can be assigned characteristics to potentially allow interaction , for example , allowing viewers to select objects and link to services ( eg , Web sites ) external to the presentation . In this paper we propose that this interactivity also allows personalisation of TV services . “ Objects ” may be arbitrary shaped video objects [ 5 ] which are video files to be multiplexed with other objects and the source streamed from the head end . In a typical DMB implementation , video objects are transmitted in a multiplex according to the Delivery Multimedia Integration Framework ( DMIF ) – MPEG 4 Part 6 [ 6 ] . Objects exist in relation to the time and dimensional space of the frame and these parameters are related to the video scene by the Binary Interchange Format ( BIFS ) – MPEG 4 Part 11 [ 7 ] ; this is referred to as the “ scene graph ” . For mobile rich media these relationships are related in the Lightweight Application Scene Representation ( LASeR ) – MPEG 4 Part 20 [ 7 ] . At the viewer side equipment ( ie , computer or set top box ) , the objects will be re assembled
1 WorldDMB : http://wwwworlddaborg/about_worlddmb into the desired scene for playback to the viewer interface . Objects may be given specific properties , eg , for viewer interaction . Personalisation of video can be achieved by selecting objects from an external library and integrating them into the “ source video ” play out . Here , the term “ source video ” is the programme content stored in the video head end . To allow for the personalisation of the source programme , the content would be produced with suitable spaces where imported objects may be placed . The spaces are “ placeholders ” defined in the source video and its metadata . The properties of the placeholder define the type of object which may be inserted and would be in accordance with the editorial integrity of the content as specified by the producer of the source video . The metadata of the source content describes the restrictions and requirements of the objects sought for integration into the content . These objects would be stored in separate libraries by content producer agencies and would be made available for integration into any suitable source video . In a full commercial operation such libraries would be operated by third parties and used by , eg , advertising agencies to store their clients' artefacts for future placement . Objects are described by their own metadata . Each “ placeholder ” in the source video would require an object to be sought , negotiated and integrated into the source . When a play out request is made , the metadata of both the source programme and the external additional objects is utilised along with the profile of the viewer and a selection is made for suitable objects to import into the source stream . For conventional MPEG 4 object based video , the original play out programme consists of existing objects and scenes ; these are related to each other by the scene graph . The receiving set top box ( or other platform ) uses the scene graph to align the objects for synchronised playback to the viewer . To allow for the personalisation of broadcast content , the scene graph would be updated to include references to the added objects . Consequently , the “ placeholders ” are identified as such in the original scene
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France960 be populated whe ded in to the pro wer side equipme sonalised progra al possible varia ource video can ed objects ; ( ii ) s acting as a vi scanned for su inserted , althoug source video to editorial or artis en the specific o ogramme for tra ent will utilise th m . ations to this pro n be extracted a personalisation iewer group ; an uitable ( undefine gh this may be o prevent any stic requirement objects have bee ansmission to th he scene graph t en he to ocess : ( i ) existin and replaced wit n may refer to nd ( iii ) the sourc ed ) spaces wher precluded by th insertions whic ts of the origin ng th a ce re he ch al g graph and will b s successfully trad v viewer . The view a assemble the pers T There are severa o objects in the so e externally source g group of viewer c content may be o objects may be i a author of the s c contravene the e p programme . 1.2 Persona 1 N Nowadays , ther p personalization o • Content bas • in the alisation and re are several of contents : sed Filtering ( C and vie resource ations [ 9 ] . Thes recommend the informatio care about therefore the e description of cise recommenda provide prec • Collaborativ ve Filtering ( CF • of ratings , pr comparison with other sim resources , order to produce profile ) in o or resource base valuations o this appr alternatives approximati ions have been n of content rec combination ] , [ 11 ] . filtering [ 10 • Collaborativ ve Tagging ( C • ontents by mea describe co These systems description . structures : ta ag clouds and fo ed for content can be use between two diff distinguish b ng use taggin information [ 10 ] , where we c algorithms [ number of resources tagge [ 12 ] ; and ( ii i ) applications w ommendation [ 1 used for reco ased Reasoning The Case b methods for org of different indexing the e knowledge reta performs inexa approach p on of the simila determinatio : retrieve , reuse four phases system retr rieves previous presented , r reuses the closer vises the propo context ) , re was success sful , retains the n t as concrete exp may be kept generalized case may form a solution to s suggest recomm g into account past , taking the resource desc profile and t 2 . NETWO 2 ORK ARCH T The proposed a architecture for depicted in Figur p placement in is d our main tiers : c constituted of fo c content distribut tion tier , the co
• • d Filtering techniques fo for filtering an nd he de ke rs ; to to description of th BF ) uses the d ts interest ewer ’s provid tions do not tak se recommendat y other viewer on provided by the resources is really relevant t ations . ) techniques usu rovided by the milar viewers ( recommendatio ed valuations a roach . Recently n proposed , tha commendation ually consider th viewers to th ( concerning the ons . Viewer base are the two mai y , some hybri at usually are and collaborativ he he eir ed in id a ve to to llow viewers t ch d to share suc different types o of ] . These structure es an on , and we ca es : ( i ) systems th at recommendatio on he s that consider th bers of tags use ed is ing information
CT ) systems al ans of tags and generate two d olksonomies [ 12 ] recommendatio ferent approache improve can find the ones d and the numb where only taggi 1 ] . ( CBR ) paradigm ganizing , retriev ained in past cas act reasoning arity between ca , revise and reta cases similar r ones ( adapting sed solution(s ) new solution for periences or a se e . CBR techniqu endations that w the viewer con criptions . HITECTURE E r networked vi deo personalise tier architecture re 2 . This multi t oduction tier , th the content pro ontent consumpt tion tier and th ge m covers a rang nd ving , utilizing an R es [ 14 ] . The CB th based on he ases and include es ain . Basically , th he to the new on ne them to the new w it and , finally , if future use . Case es et of similar case es ues provide a goo od worked well in th he ntext , the viewe er ed is he he artefac distribu ct brokerage tier utors and the vie r . The key play ewers . yers are the pro oducers , the
Figure 2 . ser clients ( PC c sing , eg , decod ced codecs . How of course and a ial network imp ecise configurat n in the networ be feasible , in et Protocol TV trial TV . The v ement to host the Dynamic O ugh the source f s , the proposed ntional manner . 3 . The content contains the or of reserved spac bjects are to b band access fro age platform an ble the source a ding to the perso s are actually to s , there is no
End us process advanc matter Potenti the pre section would Interne Terrest require 2.1 D Althou objects conven Figure which details The ob broadb brokera assemb accord objects reasons transm multiplexing . The se et top box can ad of the user play out s transm mitted , between t and the e personalised s self sel lect ( or user sele more im mmediate contex There i is also the option be asso ociated with the access to protected archite ectures there are develop pment to existin of the e service is yments . The proc deploy 2.2 A Alternative G 4 has been init MPEG major TV distribution of vide eo distribution i the top ” ( OTT ) “ over t e of VP8 video c the use e of scene graph the use applica ations . Such con ty which may or integrit taken b by content produ
Personalised plac clients , set top bo ding and renderin wever , these dev are not limited to plementations are tion is likely to rk . All current ncluding Satelli ( IPTV ) , Telco video head end e source content bject Integr files contain the architecture mu Object integrati t ( ie , VoD ) ser riginal scene gra ces into which ob be selected and om the set top nd object servers and the objects onalised graph . o be transmitted requirement fo cement overview oxes ) need to su ng needs to be s velopments will o the proposals in e discussed belo be part of an video distribut ite TV , Cable IPTV , WebTV will be unaffe stream . ration e placeholders f ultiplexes progra ion is achieved a rver hosts the s aph stating the p bjects may be im d served via an p box to the s . The set top b into the requir In this architec d via satellite lin for MPEG 4 Pa dopt several stra stream : ( i ) selec the original sour stream with the ect ) from a grou xt specific reaso n for the object s e conditional acc programme co e no proprietary ng head ends . Co easily achieva cess is perfectly f Video Tech tially considered networks . How is done via the W TV play outs , w coding . MPEG p and transmultip ntent description r may not be an i ucers . Ideally th ategies to define ct , when default rce with the def user specific obj up of pre selected ons . selection and tran cess data as part ontent . In both y coding standa onsequently , imp able in existin feasible in near r hnologies d due to its predo wever , an increas Web , especially with a predicted patent issues may plexing for objec and control allo issue , depending hey would retain upport object supported in l occur as a n this paper . ow , although ad insertion tion formats TV , Cable and Digital cted by the for imported ammes in a as shown in source video position and mported . n associated Web based ox can now red play out cture , unless nk for other art 6 DMIF e the content t objects are fault objects bjects ; or ( ii ) d objects for nsmission to t of the user h proposed ards and no plementation ng network real time . ominance in sing amount y Web based d increase in y complicate t based VP8 ows editorial g on the view n full control
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France961 Figure 3 . Network Architecture for a range of distribution formats to restrict the types of objects traded in to their programmes . So , Web based TV applications would still allow the brokerage of arbitrary objects into prepared source video content . Although technical development is feasible , one of the main issues is likely to be patents . 3 . TRADED MEDIA COMPONENTS In the scenarios envisaged here , objects are imported into predefined positions given by the scene graph of the source programme video . These imported objects have been defined externally to the source video capture and coding and may even belong to another presentation . Objects are sourced from libraries of objects made available for trading by content producers . A likely business model is that the libraries are third party operated repositories and are populated by the object assets of , eg , advertising agencies where the objects represent the advertised merchandise or services . In this case , a number of advertising agencies are utilising the libraries for this purpose . 3.1 Networked Libraries and Brokerage If media objects are to be utilised in this manner , we can consider the evolution of a more sophisticated and complex media market . Extending the scenario given in Figure 1 , consider that the viewer of the programme has a profile known to the service operator which is likely to be based on previous viewing history , etc . This profile determines exactly which object is to be selected from a range of possible libraries . This activity would likely take place in a commercial environment in which the objects are traded ( possibly in near real time ) from a library which provides the suitable object for an agreed contract and associated service level agreements . In this scenario it is possible that the object could be selected from a trawl of a number of libraries . Content metadata is required to describe ( i ) the objects available in the libraries and ( ii ) the requirements of the video stream requesting the object . It is also likely that there is a commercial value attached to the objects , depending on the type of interactive service being offered . For example , if the video stream requires an object for an interactive service requested by the viewer , the object may attract a contractual usage fee , ie , an entertainment agency is paid for the usage . However , if the service is to place an object into the video stream for the purpose of advertising to the viewer , then there is a value to an agency ( eg , an advertising agency ) in placing the object into the stream . Consequently , there is a two way negotiation involved in the acquisition and usage of an object from a library . Libraries would therefore be populated with video objects uploaded by content producers , advertising agencies , etc . The objects carry play out rights to be negotiated as they are required . Due to the growing interest of video content producers and distributors in personalised product placement , this proposal is also concerned with seamless interoperability , scalability and accessibility . For this reason the brokerage platform is offered as a Software as a Service ( SaaS ) , Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) component with Web service interfaces , embracing simultaneously the Cloud and the Service computing paradigms . A similar approach has been proposed [ 16 ] . Whereas the “ Cloud ” provides computing and data storage services anywhere , anytime through a very robust infrastructure based on virtualization technologies , SOA facilitates interoperable services between distributed systems to communicate and exchange data with one another , thus providing a uniform means for service users and providers to discover and offer services [ 17 ] . 3.2 Personalised Product Placement Service Targeted advertising is now one of the main investment areas for commercial TV distributors . For example , Packet Vision provides technology for targeted advertising in IPTV based on viewer profiles . They claim that “ the average increase in the value of a targeted ad spot is at least 50 % ” [ 18 ] . They also claim a better viewer experience ( because it is more relevant ) . However , it is likely that advertisements will become increasingly personalised , sophisticated , and will find their way into the main programme content . Personalised product placement is a consequence of this . For example , a media object specifically selected based on the viewer profile is acquired following negotiation for contractual usage fees and integrated into the content at an appropriate position in the programme .
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France962 to note that pro Recently , the U ctions on produ One of the driv owth in TV chan ority of TV del elecommunicatio ivery market to installations . Th co market and is P platform , includ oduct placement UK regulatory b uct placement an ving forces is th nnels . livery is via sa ons operators ( Te maintain the re his has resulted s now driving ca ding their own IP t has been unde er body Ofcom ha as is nd this practice to he requirement t nd atellite , cable an ng elcos ) are movin evenue growth o of in the growth o of rs able TV provide PTV service [ 19 9 ] , of all IP platform ng Web browsin ollected and proc area for TV del ed advertising i ms is the integr g and voice serv cessed , resulting livery is increasi is currently an ration of all use er vices ) . This allow ws g . g in user profilin ed ingly personalise area of massiv ve than ial Services r Commerci nt scenario , we oduct placemen ocial networked g , education , s onalization as ture based pers activity of pers vices . The intera addressed by con f viewers to be a t rather he individual , d group enterta oup working an and education a ontent , training a of content . For personalisation attainment level ay adapt to the a vidual's context , apted to an indiv alised clips may y also be from ial networking within a soci ared content . Fin authored and sha cultural traditio ending on the the removal of alcoholic conte up envisage grou ed d user generate re potential futur sonalised service es ed ntent personalise re allowing mor inment activitie es . to are areas likely t ng example , trainin he s achieved by th location , etc . Th he m user generate ed le group or circ nally , objects ca an ns of the viewe er ent from a vide eo
It t is significant g great debate . R w withdrawn restric s set to continue . fu fund the large gro W Whilst the majo te errestrial TV , Te in nto the TV deli th heir broadband PTV in the Telc IP to owards an all IP [ 20 ] . T The advantage o s services ( includin u user data to be co T The next growth s services . Targete in nvestment . 3.3 Further 3 B Beyond the pro v viewing , training c content or cult c commercial serv allows groups of a to o the group s sophisticated gro In nformational co b benefit from the v video content ma in ndividual , or ada in nserted persona c content derived a allowing group a b be replaced dep audience , eg , t a s scene . In n many of these ta arget audiences fr freshness and avo 4 . VIEWER 4 In n order to achiev p possible object in th he techniques de w will explore new h have applied suc 23 ] , [ 16] ) , adap [ s scenario . T The approach we o of viewers’ prof p personal , social , O On the one hand w when managing w with Web 2.0 , pr a activity , allowin s social networkin e emerge thanks to a are used to comp c calculate the reco • The user ta • by the user ing content is re e examples existi . It also allows s content to ma e . oid obsolescence ING R PROFILI r profiling and to ve a good viewe nce , we consider nsertion experien ion 1.2 . Under t escribed in secti combinations of f those isolated t er contexts in th cessfully to othe the particulariti pting them to eused for differen nt aintain topicality y , o provide the be est r a combination o of we this approach , w echniques that w we 2 ] , e past ( [21 ] , [ 22 ies of the med dia e propose consid files as CBR cas professional , cu d , the use of CB ontologies and s rofiling has evolv g the profile of ng , especially b o the use of colla pose three differ ommendations : ag cloud ( Figure weighted by the ders the creation ses containing i ultural , political BR techniques ca semantic data . O ved from an ind f any viewer to by means of fo aborative tagging rent tag clouds , w n and maintenanc ce nformation abou ut ta . or religious dat an be very usefu ful d , On the other han ividual to a soci al by o be enhanced b folksonomies th at g [ 22 ] . These tag gs which are used t to e 4 ) contains all e ratings he/she h the tags provide has provided ; i.e ed e . , th he higher the nu de escribe a video to o that video , the cl loud . he video tag cl Th ha ave provided to nu umber of users pa articular tag , th cl loud . he target user t Th it describes the ta sh hould have . This of f the users who gi iven ratings . inally , a group Fi th he sets of tags fr vi ideo contents tha umber of times and the higher t e higher the we the user has us the ratings he/sh eight of the tag sed a tag to he has given g in the tag loud ( Figure 4 ) describe a parti s who have de he higher the we contains all the icular video . Th escribed this vi eight of this tag e tags users he higher the ideo with a g in the tag tag cloud ( Figur ag cloud that the s tag cloud is co have rated this re 4 ) belongs to perfect visitor o mposed from th s attraction weig a video and of this video he tag clouds ghted by the tag cloud can rom a group of u at can be suitabl be constructed users in order to le for the whole s considering recommend set of users .
•
•
•
Figure 4 . ether , a folksono Altoge cted graph wher undirec ent the relations represe n is increased e relation tag cloud . Henc video g the tags of the s among fore , in order to f Theref ain stream , we the ma ns all his/her pe contain oud resulting fro tag clo ntent distributor the con streams he/she h video s use classical f will u orative tagging [ 2 collabo d . In case that inserte ses , we can follo databas 0 ] to perform t in [ 20 approp priate objects con . profile iewer profiling The vi launch hed by the dis ctions – see Figur interac evant interaction By rele an be filtered b that ca Interne et browsing act rely on the prop agents individ dual viewer profi
. Social contentomy ( bottom of re nodes are the ships between th every time two ce , this structur system . find the best pos model every v ersonal and sema om his social int r provider or fro has done . From filtering techniq 22 ] to search for the objects are ow a P2P scheme the distributed ncerning their ch activity is carr stributors to mo re 5 . ns we mean all by the distributo tivity , social net posed approache iles .
based filtering f Figure 4 ) is cr tags in the syst he tags they link o tags appear to re reflects the r reated as an em and arcs k [ 21 ] . This ogether in a relationships ssible objects to i viewer as a CB antic data togeth eractions in the om the previous all this data , a C ques [ 21 ] enh r recommended o e distributed ov e as the one that search , selectin haracteristics and insert within R case that her with his Web site of selection of CBR engine anced with objects to be ver a set of we describe ng the most d the viewer ried out by pro onitor all relev ofiler agents vant viewer types of viewer or : selected vid tworking , etc . T es to create and m r interaction deo streams , The profiler maintain the
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France963 rm is a compe ise agents ( prod et in order to et profiles of the MAS , which is etitive Multi Ag ducers and distri trade media e agents and the structured in thr gent System ibutors ) and components rules of the ree layers , is n the viewer stre download and i Distributors and slots . ces annotated in both to the so treams ) and to ted and inserte s they hold or s hand , any entity ervice ( agent ) ate the price of p deo objects are M OWL ontology s ( the viewer se objects ( autom seek to insert in y can discover , d automatically . D programme times MPEG 4 instanc y . This applies elected video st matically select objects other h any se negotia All vid based objects video framew work ) . rokerage platfor The br ) where enterpri ( MAS ) t regulator mee market ding to the marke accord market t . The resulting M osed of : compo • nterprise Interfa ace Agents that En distributors with pr roducers and d aking the inputs , re esponsible for ta gent accordingl th he enterprise ag mpany can specif re esults . Each com wer profiles an an nd update view behaviour . en nterprise market s that represent nterprise Agent En m . These coarse w within the platform onding Enterpris vi ia the correspo n invitation , in pa articipate , upon te agents at the m la aunching delegat • M the administra Agent that is Market Profiler latform , eg , spe iation protocols a ecifies the negoti pl at are small g gate Agents tha En nterprise Deleg mme timeslots o trading program re esponsible for t tplace . Their eph s at the marketp En nterprise Agent ure in the negoti success or failu te erminates upon rticipate . ere invited to par fo or which they we • M t t Market Agent that governs the marketplace to register with s are required t En nterprise Agent A Agent in order to participate in an ny negotiation . t producers and e grain agents are se Interface Ag n specific nego marketplace .
•
• constitute the h the platform , spawning or re ly and reportin fy new media ob nd define and interface of m . They are econfiguring ng back the bjects , create refine the distributors e configured gents . They otiations by eam . On the interact with d producers an MPEG 7 ource video the external ed by this ator of the available . grain agents on behalf of hemeral life iation round e . Delegate the Market
5 . BROKER 5 A An overview of b brokerage tier is o objects to be in a achieved through v video content p e exposed to the c component . A p producers and di o on Web Servic c combination is , c combine the stren a and instant mes m multi agent aut s service oriented e e commerce orien T The producers an a autonomous inte m must , on one ha c counterparts to k knowledge and , in nteroperable wit T The latter is achi g guaranteeing inte c coupled enterpri p proposed transac U Universal Descri r egistries to hold o one hand , produ r emove their ser
Figure 5 . Vie RAGE PLA the platform is s responsible fo nserted in the v h automated agen roducers and d involved part service centric stributors an aut e interfaces , S according to ngths of SOA , W saging technolo omated negotia architecture is nted intelligent t nd distributors o elligent agents . T and , be entirely ensure the pri on the other th the remaining ieved by the ado eroperability and ise agents that ction environme iption , Discovery d the description ucers and distri rvice description ewer profiling ATFORM shown in Figur or the dynamic viewer play out nt based negotia distributors . This ties as a Softw model is prop tomated negotiat SOA and SaaS [ 24 ] , an intere Web Services , age ogies . The idea ation system s feasible and trading applicatio of media content These so called y controlled by vacy of the co hand , be fully g components o option of a Web d allowing the cr can enter and nt . The resultin y and Integration ns of existing ag ibutors can pub ns – metadata de act re 6 . The artefa he selection of th is t stream . This he tion involving th is s functionality ce ware as a Servic de posed to provid ed tion service base ch approach . Suc to esting attempt t ent based system ms a of developing a integrated in meaningful fo or ons [ 25 ] . by t are modelled b nts enterprise agen ld their real worl ic ompany strateg nd y compatible an of the framework k . ce Service interfac ly reation of loosel he leave freely th ng SOA relies o on ce n ( UDDI ) servic On gent services . O nd blish , update an escriptions of th he r e y a L e c a f r e t n
I e s i r p r e t n E r e y a L l e c a p t e k r a M r e y a L
P Producer1 GUI
P Producerp GUI
Admin GUI
Distributor1
GUI Distributord G
GUI
Market Service Registry
Market Profiler Agent
Market Agent
AgProd1
AgProdp
Delegatei AgProd1
Delegatej AgProdp
AgDist1
AgDistd
Delegatei AgDist1
Delegatej AgDistd
Figure 6 .
Brokerage platf form
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France964 the Interface La including the p e layer – the Ente ing producer an rket profiler age yer – contains fin ayer – is compo platform admini erprise Layer – h d distributor ent ent ; and the bo ner grain delega se osed by enterpris ce istration interfac in holds coarse grai terprise agents a as he ottom layer – th ate agents and th he
T The top layer – in nterface agents , a agent ; the middle a agents representi w well as the mar M Marketplace Lay m market agent . T The MAS broker A Agent Developm In ntegration Gatew C Client ( WSDC ) a S Services . The U s source Java imp S Services . All int W Web Service inte 5.1 Persona 5 S Suppose there ar agencies ) – bcu a enterprise – isep e lo ooking for an a p profile and an exp T The content distr r egistry for appr tu um and invites C Contract Net neg U Upon acceptance m marketplace laye rage platform is b ment Framewo way ( WSIG ) ad add on and the U UDDI service re lementation of terlayer commun erfaces . alisation of A re three content u , uvigo and tu – registered at t ad alignment fo pressed interest i ributor , triggered ropriate content them for a neg gotiation protocol e , four new dele er : ( i ) isep_conv being implement ted using the Jav th rk ( JADE ) , he Web Servic Service Dynam dd on , the Web interact with We UDDI4J API to i jUDDI , an ope egistry used is the UDDI speci ification for We eved through th nication is achi va ce ic eb en eb he g Content prises ( advertisin ng ontent distributo or urthermore , isep is h a strong spor rts
Advertising producer enterp um – and a co the platform . Fu or a viewer with in cars . earches the UDD DI d by this need , se ds bcu , uvigo an nd producers , find gotiation round u using the Iterate ed l ( ICNET ) [ 26 ] . egate agents are e launched at th e representing th vertible_delegate he he isep ’s viewer ad align enting the conv represe mw_convertible_ tum_bm v ) uvigo_citroen and ( iv rtible ad . Figure conver nterface ( GUI ) a User In platform . in the p rst action of each The fir and download h agent a ation profile inc negotia ol , minimum pri protoco adjustment tactic price a cal price per identic ment tactics , res adjustm n exponential pr has an ment tactic and tu adjustm sep_convertible_ The is or , issuing calls initiato tes the role of p delegat finishes , all d round corresp ponding enterp onvertible_deleg isep_co es his minimum satisfie sals that do not propos r was bcu with a winner tactic . Figure market
8 shows the b tplace . nment ; ( ii ) bcu_j vertible ad propo _delegate repres n_convertible_de e 7 shows the e and the list of en jaguar_convertib osed by bcu ’s a senting tum ’s con elegate represen enterprise agent nterprise and del ble_delegate agency ; ( iii ) nvertible ad ; nting uvigo ’s ts Graphical egate agents h delegate is to c his negotiation p cludes , among ot ice per second , m c , etc . The three second bounda sulting in divers rice adjustment um a random pri _delegate takes for proposals , a proposal propon delegates report prise agents . gate – accepts m price per sec t meet this crite an exponential p contact the maste profile . In this e ther features the maximum price e advertising ag aries , but diff se negotiation p tactic , uvigo a ice adjustment ta s the role of and the bcu , uvi nents . When the back their res The initiator the highest pr cond value and erion . In this e price per second er enterprise example , the e negotiation per second , gencies have ferent price profiles : bcu linear price actic . the ICNET igo and tum e negotiation sults to the agent – roposal that d rejects all xample , the d adjustment behaviour of the e different deleg gates in the
Figur re 7 . Enterprise a agents and the lis st of JADE agents s
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France965 Figure 8 . Delegate agents negotiation behaviour
6 . CONCLUSIONS This proposal for personalised video is based on the viewer ’s current profile and context ( the programme selected , the location , the day of the week , the season , etc . ) and is achieved through the automated insertion of dynamically selected video objects into the viewer ’s play out stream . The proposals here allow an automated ( and near real time ) approach to the personalisation and adaption of networked video . We are focussed on the personalised product placement scenario , which is a relevant and timely service for next generation online marketing and advertising , although a number of other commercial personalised video services are equally applicable . Our approach is based on MPEG 4 standards using object based video and utilising MPEG 7 for metadata storage . All major TV distribution formats are achievable with the architectures addressed in these proposals , and no proprietary technology or protocol is proposed . To trade the objects into the video play out , we adopt a brokerage platform based on intelligent agent technology that is exposed as a Software as a Service component , ensuring interoperability and allowing the migration of the platform into the Cloud . Agencies , libraries and service providers are represented in a commercial negotiation to facilitate the contractual selection and usage of objects to be inserted into the video play out stream . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors want to thank the team working in moreTur [ 16 ] for fruitful discussions and especially to Marta Rey for Figure 4 . This work was partially supported by Xunta de Galicia under INCITE Project Number 10 PXIB 322 039 PR . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B . Malheiro and J . Foss ( 2010 ) , “ A Proposal for Media
Component Brokerage ” , Proceedings of the Fourth International European Conference on the Use of Modern Information and Communication Technologies ( ECUMICT’2010 ) , Ed . Lieven de Strycker , Nevelland vzw , ISBN 978 9 08 082555 5 , March 2010 , pp . 389 403 .
[ 2 ] B . Malheiro , J . Foss , J . C . Burguillo , A . Peleteiro and
F . A . Mikic ( 2011 ) , Dynamic Personalisation of Media Content , accepted at the 6th International Workshop on Semantic Media Adaptation and Personalization ( SMAP 2011 ) , Vigo , Spain .
[ 5 ]
[ 7 ]
[ 8 ]
[ 3 ] MPEG Committee ( 2002 ) , “ Overview of the MPEG 4
Standard ” . Available at http://wwwchiariglioneorg/mpeg/standards/MPEG 4/MPEG4htm
[ 4 ] José M . Martínez ( 2002 ) , “ Overview of MPEG 7 Description
Tools , Part 2 ” , MPEG tutorials . Available at http://wwwchiariglioneorg/mpeg/tutorials/papers/IEEEMM_m p7DToverview_withcopyrigthpdf ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11 N7298 ( 2005 ) , Introduction to MPEG 4 Video ( arbitrary shape ) , July 2005 , ed . Jens Rainer Ohm . Available at http://mpegchiariglioneorg/technologies/mpeg 4/mp04vid%28s%29/indexhtm
[ 6 ] Franceschini , G . ( 2000 ) , The Delivery Layer in MPEG 4 , Signal processing : Image communication , Elsevier , ISSN 0923 5965 , Vol . 15 , No . 4 5 , 347 363 . Available at http://mpegchiariglioneorg/tutorials/papers/icj mpeg4 si/06DMIF_paper/6 DMIF_paperhtm ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11 ( 2005 ) , MPEG 4 BIFS white paper , ISO . Available at http://mpegchiariglioneorg/technologies/mpeg 4/mp04bifs/indexhtm ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11 ( 2005 ) , ISO . Available at http://mpegchiariglioneorg/technologies/mpeg 4/mp04lsr/indexhtm
[ 9 ] M . J . Pazzani and D . Billsus ( 2007 ) , "Content based recommendation systems," P . Brusilovsky , A . Kobsa , and W . Nejdl ( Eds . ) The adaptive Web , LNCS 4321 , pp . 325 341 . [ 10 ] G . Adomavicius and A . Tuzhilin ( 2005 ) , "Toward the next generation of recommender systems : A survey of the state ofthe art and possible extensions," IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , vol . 17 , no . 6 , pp . 734 749 . [ 11 ] M . Szomszor , C . Cattuto , H . Alani , K . O'Hara , A . Baldassarri ,
V . Loreto , and V . D . Servedio ( 2007 ) , “ Folksonomies , the semantic Web , and movie recommendation , ” 4th European Semantic Web Conference , Bridging the Gap between Semantic Web and Web 20
[ 12 ] A . B . Barragáns Martínez , M . Rey López , E . Costa
Montenegro , J . C . Burguillo , F . A . Mikic Fonte , and A . Peleteiro ( 2010 ) , “ A hybrid content based and item based collaborative filtering approach to recommend TV programs
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France966 enhanced with SVD , ” Information Sciences , Vol . 180 , No . 22 , pp . 4290 4311 .
[ 13 ] H . Liang , Y . Xu , Y . Li , and R . Nayak ( 2008 ) , “ Collaborative filtering recommender systems using tag information , ” Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM , Vol . 3 .
[ 14 ] Aamodt , A and Plaza , E ( 1994 ) , “ Case Based Reasoning :
Foundational Issues , Methodological Variations and System Approaches ” , AI Communications , Vol . 7 , No . 1 , 1994 , pp . 3959 .
[ 15 ] Rodríguez S . , Tapia D . , Sanz E . , Zato C . , de la Prieta F . and Gil O ( 2010 ) , “ Cloud Computing Integrated into Service Oriented Multi Agent Architecture ” , Proceedings of the International Conference , in Balanced Automation Systems for Future Manufacturing Networks 9th IFIP WG 5.5 BASYS 2010 , Valencia , Spain , Springer Verlag . Vol . 322 , pp . 251 259 .
[ 16 ] Marta Rey López , Belén Barragáns Martínez , Ana Peleteiro ,
Fernando Mikic Fonte and Juan C . Burguillo ( 2011 ) , “ moreTourism : Mobile Recommendations for Tourism ” . IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics ( ICCE 2011 ) . Las Vegas ( USA ) .
[ 17 ] Rajkumar Buyyaa , Chee Shin Yeoa , Srikumar Venugopala , James Broberg and Ivona Brandic ( 2009 ) , “ Cloud computing and emerging IT platforms : Vision , hype , and reality for delivering computing as the 5th utility ” , Future Generation Computer Systems , doi:101016/jfuture200812001
[ 18 ] A . Hart ( 2008 ) “ The Benefits Of Addressable Advertising In Broadcast ( Linear ) TV Over Telco Networks ” . Available at http://wwwpacketvisioncom/dmdocuments/Packet Vision_Busi nes Case – Addressable Advertising for IPTV_Tony Hartpdf
[ 19 ] J . Baumgartner ( 2009 ) , “ Cable IPTV Debate Brews ” Light
Reading . Available at http://wwwlightreadingcom/documentasp?doc_id=176249&sit e=cdn .
[ 20 ] T . Spangler ( 2009 ) , “ Assessing Cable ’s IPTV Future ” ,
Multichannel News . Available at http://wwwmultichannelcom/article/355427Assessing_Cable_s_IPTV_Futurephp
[ 21 ] A . B . Barragáns Martínez , M . Rey López , E . Costa
Montenegro , J . C . Burguillo , F . A . Mikic Fonte , and A . Peleteiro ( 2010 ) , “ A hybrid content based and item based collaborative filtering approach to recommend TV programs enhanced with SVD , ” Information Sciences , Vol . 180 , No . 22 , pp . 4290 4311 .
[ 22 ] Ana Belén Barragáns Martínez , Marta Rey López , Enrique
Costa Montenegro , Fernando A . Mikic Fonte , Juan C . Burguillo and Ana Peleteiro ( 2010 ) , “ Exploitation of Social Tagging for Outperforming Traditional Recommender Systems Techniques ” . IEEE Internet Computing , 14 ( 6 ) , pp . 23 30 .
[ 23 ] Juan C . Burguillo , Carolina González , Martín Llamas and
Fernando A . Mikic ( 2008 ) , “ A Case based Peer to Peer Framework for Managing Student Models in Intelligent Tutoring Systems ” . 38th ASEE/IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference ( FIE 2008 ) . Saratoga Springs , Nueva York , ( USA ) .
[ 24 ] Yu Fei Ma , Hong Xia Li , and Pei Sun ( 2007 ) , “ A lightweight agent fabric for service autonomy ” , Proceedings of the Conference on Service oriented Computing : Agents , Semantics , and Engineering ( SOCASE'07 ) , Huang et al . ( Eds. ) , LNCS 4504 , Springer Verlag , pp . 63 77 . Available at http://portalacmorg/citationcfm?id=17683631768368
[ 25 ] Mu kun Cao , Robert Chi and Ying Liu ( 2009 ) , “ Developing a
Multi Agent Automated Negotiation Service Based on Service Oriented Architecture ” , Service Science , Vol . 1 , No . 1 . [ 26 ] FIPA ( 2012 ) . Iterated Contract Net Specification . Available at http://wwwfipaorg/specs/fipa00030/
WWW 2012 – MultiAPro'12 WorkshopApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France967
