The RaiNewsbook : Browsing Worldwide Multimodal News
Stories by Facts , Entities and Dates
Maurizio Montagnuolo RAI Radiotelevisione Italiana
Centre for Research and Technological
Innovation
Alberto Messina
RAI Radiotelevisione Italiana
Centre for Research and Technological
Innovation
Corso Giambone 68 , I 10135 Turin , Italy mauriziomontagnuolo@raiit
Corso Giambone 68 , I 10135 Turin , Italy amessina@raiit
ABSTRACT This paper presents a novel framework for multimodal news data aggregation , retrieval and browsing . News aggregations are contextualised within automatically extracted information such as entities ( ie persons , places and organisations ) , temporal span , categorical topics , social networks popularity and audience scores . Further resources coming from professional repositories , and related to the aggregation topics , can be accessed as well . The system is accessible through a Web interface supporting interactive navigation and exploration of large scale collections of news stories at the topic and context levels . Users can select news topics and subtopics interactively , building their personal paths towards worldwide events , main characters , dates and contents .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Communications Applications—Information browsers ; H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia— Navigation
General Terms Management
Keywords Tv and Web convergence , News Retrieval , Named Entities Tagging , Topic Tracking
1 . BACKGROUND
The exponential growth of digital resources availability is enabling new forms of content creation , sharing , and delivery . Methodologies for aggregation and presentation of heterogeneous content are needed to make these resources effective and easily available to the final users . Here , the challenge lies in the ability of collecting , connecting and presenting data streams from different media sources , eg television , press , the Internet , and of different media types such as audio , speech , text and video .
There have been a number of systems supporting access to news content over the years . Among them , the Google
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
News aggregator1 , the Informedia News on Demand library [ 1 ] and the F´ıschl´ar News delivery system [ 2 ] . However , most of the current technologies lack in efficient data organisation and presentation , so that accessing and browsing the desired content can be a time consuming and frustrating task . Also , only basic facilities for data analysis , filtering and management ( eg filter by date ) are provided .
In this paper , information streams from both television , the Internet and others digital libraries ( ie a collection of audiovisual assets from the RAI ’s archive , and a collection of international news from the Eurovision archive2 ) are automatically acquired , aggregated in topics and indexed to provide more integrated access to these otherwise disconnected data sources . Data mining techniques are used to contextualise the news topics wrt involved entities ( ie persons , geographic locations and organisations ) and impact factors ( ie TV and Internet audience ) . The system runs 24 hours per day and 365 days per year . About 550 RSS feeds from 70 Web providers are registered and managed by the system . Users can at any time add new feeds . Digital television streams ( DTTs ) are acquired from the daily programming of 9 national channels , resulting in 21 single newscast programmes per day . The audiovisual assets search index and the international news search index are daily updated and currently , they consist in about 125,000 and 60,000 documents , respectively . To our best knowledge , this is the first attempt to address this problem in a real world large scale scenario . The remain of the paper is organised as follows . Section 2 overviews the main technologies of the system . Section 3 describes the interfaces accessible by users . Section 4 provides final remarks and draws conclusions .
2 . MAIN TECHNOLOGIES
The RAI interactive Newsbook ( RaiNewsbook ) brings together a range of automatic technologies in a single system that provides many integrated services for multimodal and personalised fruition of informative news content . The proposed platform is modelled as a Multiple Inputs SingleOutput information processing machine . The input data streams are composed of TV video clips from news and entertainment programmes and Internet contents from RSS news feeds and user blogs . The television streams are at first partitioned into programmes . Video elements indicating
1http://newsgooglecom/ 2Eurovision News Exchanges ( http://wwweurovision net/news/exchanges.php )
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France389 starting and ending of newscasts are used as reference prototypes to be searched through the acquired video streams . Though this can be performed with less computationally expensive and more general methods , eg by electronic programme guides ( EPGs ) , we believe that the visual approach better balances between accuracy and robustness required by an automated system for this purpose . For example , EPGs are not always available , nor they provide accurate timing information . Once a newscast has been detected , automatic segmentation into elementary stories is performed . Then , the audio track of each story is transcribed by a multilingual speech to text engine and classified according to a taxonomy of journalistic categories . A complete description of the news story segmentation task and of the validation criteria applied is described in [ 3 ] . The Internet contents are extracted from the HTML pages linked by the RSS feeds registered in the system . First , an RSS feed is parsed to identify the embedded items and extract the corresponding information , title , description , publication date , link and enclosure elements . Next , natural language processing ( NLP ) is performed on each individual item ’s title and description . This includes HTML tag cleaning , sentence boundary detection , stop word removal and part of speech ( POS ) tagging . This information is then used by a hybrid clustering algorithm to link the RSS items to the news story speech transcriptions , thus providing aggregations of different information assets around the same topic [ 4 ] . The RSS processing pipeline was developed using open source tools and utilities3 in order to provide a low cost and flexible solution to the problem . ie
The output data stream is a set of multimedia dossiers , ie aggregations of text Web articles and multimedia TV assets around the same topic . Each dossier is supplied with additional information that is automatically extracted from its content , eg the title reflecting the semantics of the event and sub events described by the dossier and the related entities . Furthermore , temporal information is also included , in order to provide the users the ability to browse spatialtemporal paths among real world events . Named entities are identified through lexical syntactic patterns ( eg a continuous succession of proper nouns or proper nouns spaced out by prepositions ) combined with external knowledge repositories such as Wikipedia and other ground truth data sources ( eg legacy or geospatial databases ) . This allows us to recognise as many entities as possible ( thus augmenting recall ) while minimising the number of false positive results ( and thus augmenting precision ) .
The information collected about each dossier is indexed by the Apache Solr engine4 so that the search engine could offer unified search and browse services for any Web user . These services are described in the next section .
3 . SYSTEM INTERFACES
This section introduces the main services delivered by the RaiNewsbook system that are accessible to the users . These include the following : ( i ) Named entities oriented navigation
3HTML cleaning is performed using a customised version of PotaModule ( http://sslmitdev onlinesslmitunibo it/ ) . Sentence detection and POS tagging is performed using OpenNLP ( http://incubatorapacheorg/opennlp/ ) trained on an in house data set . 4http://luceneapacheorg/solr/ and multimodal topic content browsing ; ( ii ) Graph based topic representation ; ( iii ) Cross domain data warehousing . 3.1 Named entities Oriented Navigation and
Multimodal Topic Content Browsing
The system provides a Web interface for searching and retrieving news topics and events by named entities , as shown in Figure 1 . The list of available entities ( ie those that have been extracted by the named entities recognition engine ) is shown on the left panel . Selecting one or more entities the system shows ( on the right panel ) the list of retrieved topics . Each topic is browsable by title ( automatically set by the aggregation algorithm among those of the included RSS feed items ) , last update timestamp , and contents ( ie the list of TV news stories and RSS feed items equipped with extracted texts and tag cloud , speech transcriptions and images ) . The topics can be multilingual ( eg English and Italian ) , provided that the speech to text tools and the POS tagging tools are available for the languages of interest ( see Figure 3 ) . Also the named entities panel is automatically updated in order to produce a tag cloud of new entities that have a relation with the selected ones . For example , selecting the entity ” person:Angela Merkel ” will result in a list of topics ( ie multimedia dossiers ) in which Angela Merkel is involved ( eg financial crisis , G20 meetings , stock market news ) and a list of entities related to her ( eg Berlin , Frankfurt and Wall Street for locations ) . The interface was developed using the AJAX Solr javascript library5 to completely inherit the facilities of Apache Solr into our system application . Different Solr indexes can be accessed at the same time , thus providing an integrated access interface to multiple data sources . In particular , users can select items from the RAI multimedia catalogue , ie a legacy digital library of the RAI ’s audiovisual archives , from the Eurovision news archive and from Google . 3.2 Graph based Topic Representation
The system offers a visual navigation mode based on the representation of the multimedia dossiers in the form of graphs . Each node of the graph corresponds to a Web article included in the dossier . The edge among a couple of nodes represents the degree of affinity ( ie topic similarity ) between the two articles [ 6 ] . This affinity is evaluated using an asymmetric function that derives from a generalisation of the Cosine similarity measure . Further details on the analytical properties of this function are provided in [ 5 ] . Figure 4 shows an example . The general topic is about the bad weather in Italy during the first days of November 2011 . The graph shows two sub topics : on the left side there are the news focussing on the disaster in Genoa , while on the right side there are the news on the civil defence operations . Clicking on one node shows the article content and the related TV clips . 3.3 Cross domain Data Warehousing
Cross domain data warehousing and reporting provides a set of tools for data management and monitoring . News topics are supplied with statistics on the TV and Internet coverage , interest and pleasantness . Cross provider statistics , eg TV channels correlation , are also provided . Different
5A JavaScript framework for creating user interfaces to Solr ( https://githubcom/evolvingweb/ajax solr )
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France390 Figure 1 : Example of named entities topic search and retrieval . The left side of the interface shows the selected entities ( eg "persons:Angela Merkel" ) and the list of entities to which they are related . The left side of the interface shows all the retrieved news topics and events ( ie multimedia dossiers ) in which the selected entities are involved . For each topic a user can browse both the list of included TV news stories and the list of included newspaper articles . colours/markers are used to differentiate situations in which statistics are out of range . All these statistics are accessible through a Web based dashboard showing different bar charts , pie charts or tables , as exemplified in Figure 2 . In the following we briefly describe each of them . ffl Topic rating on television channels . These tools provide evidence of the topic interest by television viewers . These include : ( i ) average audience by day parts ; ( ii ) total number of news stories by day parts ; ( iii ) average audience versus total number of news stories by day parts ; ( iv ) average duration of the news stories versus the average duration of the whole newscasts by day parts ; ( v ) average audience by channels and day parts ; ( vi ) total number of news stories by channels and day parts ; ( vii ) share by channel . ffl Topic rating on the Internet . These tools provide evidence of the topic interest by the Internet users . These include : ( viii ) Facebook statistic ( ie RSS items like , share and comment counters ) , popularity ( ie daybay day relevance and growth of the Facebook statistics for a topic ) . ffl News providers correlations and trends . These tools provide statistical correlation between the news information . The main target groups for these indicators are project managers , programme managers and monitoring committees .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
This paper presents the latest technological innovations in multimodal news gathering and publication offered by the RAI interactive Newsbook . The system provides large scale indexing , aggregation and browsing of news content coming from different distribution channels , such as television , the Internet and other digital libraries . All the provided services are accessible by Web interfaces , thus making the whole system usable across multiple platforms and devices . Innovative characteristics of the system position itself at the frontier of the technological innovation in automated information extraction and presentation , advancing the state of the art of all available commercial solutions in the news domain . Several test analysis were conducted in order to prove both the effectiveness of the system algorithms in a large scale production environment as well as the friendliness of the user interfaces , as detailed in [ 4 , 6 ]
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . G . Hauptmann and M . J . Witbrock . Intelligent multimedia information retrieval . chapter Informedia :
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France391 Figure 2 : Example of cross domain data warehousing and reporting . Several statistics about the topic on both television channels and Internet information channels are collected , analysed and presented , in order to produce browsable reports about trends , popularity and user interest of a topic over time .
Figure 3 : Example of topic content browsing . English language newspaper articles are merged with Italian language newspaper articles and Italian newscast stories .
Figure 4 : Example of graph based topic visualisation . The general topic is about the bad weather in Italy . The left side shows the news focussing on the disaster in Genoa . The right side shows the news focussing on the civil defence operations . news on demand multimedia information acquisition and retrieval , pages 215–239 . MIT Press , 1997 .
[ 2 ] H . Lee , A . F . Smeaton , N . E . O’connor , and B . Smyth .
User evaluation of f´ıschl´ar news : An automatic broadcast news delivery system . ACM Trans . Inf . Syst . , 24:145–189 , April 2006 .
[ 3 ] A . Messina , R . Borgotallo , G . Dimino , L . Boch , and
D . A . Gnota . An automatic indexing system for television newscasts . In ICME , pages 1595–1596 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] A . Messina and M . Montagnuolo . A generalised cross modal clustering method applied to multimedia news semantic indexing and retrieval . In Proceedings of the 18th international conference on World wide web , WWW ’09 , pages 321–330 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] A . Messina and M . Montagnuolo . Heterogeneous data co clustering by pseudo semantic affinity functions . In Proceedings of the 2nd Italian Information Retrieval ( IIR ) Workshop , 2011 .
[ 6 ] A . Messina , M . Montagnuolo , R . Di Massa , and
R . Borgotallo . Hyper media news : a fully automated platform for large scale analysis , production and distribution of multimodal news content . Multimedia Tools and Applications , pages 1–34 , 2011 . ( Online First : 101007/s11042 011 0859 1 )
WWW 2012 – Demos Track April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France392
