Web Intelligence and Communities
Pierre Maret
Hubert Curien Laboratory Université Jean Monnet Saint Étienne , France
Rajendra Akerkar
Vestlandsforsking
Sogndal Norway
Laurent Vercouter
LITIS Laboratory INSA de Rouen
France pierremaret@univ st etiennefr rak@vestforsk.no laurentvercouter@insa rouenfr far beyond
ABSTRACT The World Wide Web ( WWW ) provides precious means for communication , which goes traditional communication media . Web based communities have become imperative spaces for individuals to seek and share expertise . Networks in these communities usually differ in their topology from other networks such as the World Wide Web . In this paper , we explore some research issues of web intelligence and communities . We will also introduce the WI&C’15 workshop ’s goal and structure . the
Categories and Subject Descriptors I211 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Distributed Artificial Intelligence Keywords Web intelligence , web communities , ICT , knowledge , social networks , intelligent agents .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent years , web communities received a visible level of attention from the research community in many disciplines [ 2 ] . The concept of ( artificial ) intelligence has been broadly debated from numerous aspects . The web intelligence has been recognized as a way to investigate the underlying role as well as practical impact of Artificial Intelligence ( eg knowledge representation , planning , knowledge discovery and data mining , intelligent agents , and social network intelligence ) and advanced Information Technology ( eg wireless networks , ubiquitous devices , social networks , and wisdom web ) on the next generation of webempowered products , systems , services , and activities . Web communities [ 3 ] use networked technology , mainly the Internet , to establish alliance across geographical obstacles and time zones . In contrast to conventional communities , web communities in World Wide Web differ in several respects . Conventional communities are place based and have membership according to norms . Crowd dynamics frequently dominate individual expression . There is a definite edge between membership and differentiation . For instance , it is clearly stated who is a member and who is not . Whereas , web communities appear according to identification to an idea or task . They are
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742137 organized around an activity , and they are formed as a need arises . Interestingly web communities do not need formal boundaries because the members cannot see each other , rules do not dominate as much as in conventional communities , thus letting superior individual control . In other words , the WWW , becomes the ‘‘place’’ for the community ; thus networked communication has augmented the parameters of what is called as a community . In technical term , a web community is an architecture made up of a set of actors and a web of linkages between these actors . The web community perspective provides a clear way of analysing the structure of whole community entities and identifying essential links among various nodes of the network . The study of these structures uses intelligent analysis to identify local and global patterns , locate influential entities , and examine complex network dynamics . the variations and
SOME RESEARCH ISSUES
2 . One of the key objectives of web intelligence and communities research is analysis of the patterns of individual/community behaviours and community dynamics . So , it is vital to explore the dynamics of web communities , for example , interactions between web communities and homophily ( which the tendency of individuals to associate and bond with similar others ) . While links in the former are explicit links between individuals ( eg , by the isfriend of relation ) , links in the latter result from some similarity in behaviour ( e . g . , has tagged the same resource as ) . To explore how homophily can initiate social relations , and in which situations such a correlation can be perceived . Another area is characteristics of semantic spaces as the standard model of meaning representation in quantitative semantics . We argue the perspective of web communities and the potentials which they offer in terms of exploring semantic and pragmatic data . Gathering and analysis of enormous amount of data are foundational challenges in every area of science and engineering . In a situation , where every distinct member of a Web community can easily contribute to the data tsunami , data may differ in terms of subjectivity and significance , varying from personal opinions and estimations to largely established practices and welldocumented scientific results . This promotes the utilization of the synergy between human and machine reasoning when designing systems to support such processes within Web communities . Development of data mining know hows for pattern and dependencies discovery within big datasets is indeed of huge benefit [ 1 ] . But , in spite of advancement made in the field of computational analysis , there are many patterns that humans can these characteristics are challenged from that
1469 information is hardly enough ; extra easily detect but computer algorithms struggle to estimate . Interpretation of analysis’ results is a challenging issue here , in that getting results from the execution of a knowledge discovery algorithm is needed concerning how each result came out and based on which input . In some cases , web communities are not explicitly or publicly represented , especially when web technologies are used to enable people sharing a common objective to exchange or propagate information without being recognized . Detection and recognition of such communities raise important scientific challenges . Data analysis technics are required to recognize typical features . But these features have to be compared to identified individual and collective behavioural patterns that have to be built . New advances in the fields of user modelling , dynamic graph analysis and multi agent systems will allow to identify the activity of these hidden web communities and to recognize it . There is no web community without social beings . Hence , we have to take into consideration human ’s perception of objects of the real world and manner of their description for web communities . We need to focus on two vital issues : How we can make our web community more personal , ie different for different users ? , and how we can make our web community more optimal , ie more passable as a model of a real world we would like to operate in ?
PAPERS IN THE WORKSHOP
3 . The papers selected for this workshop deal with some of the significant issues in the field . Social Networks and the Semantic Web : a retrospective of the past 10 years is the title of the keynote speech . This talk presents to domain experts and newcomers an overview of existing bond between social networks and Semantic Web techniques and points out future research directions . In WI&C’15 workshop , three papers are selected for presentation . These papers are : An evaluation of SimRank and Personalized PageRank to build a recommender system for the Web of Data .
This paper evaluates SimRank and personalized PageRank for calculating similarity on RDF graphs . The algorithms exploit structural context , and they can be utilized on the Linked Data graphs for improving content based recommendation systems . The experiments focus on recommendations as a use case and for evaluating the approach . Exploriometer : leveraging personality traits for coverage and diversity aware recommendations . The paper describes an Exploriometer , which is a new metric that offers a personality trait for users based on their rating behavior . The metric has been evaluated by experiments with two realworld datasets ( MovieLens and Yahoo! Music ) . The experimental evaluation of the technique for enhanced neighbor selection is reported . A bidimensional user profile to discover unpopular Web sources . The paper proposes a personalized focused crawler to help users discovering relevant information sources in the context of Experts in Intelligence Analysis ( EIA ) . The purpose is to cover the thematic of the information needs as well as specific and accurate terms . It further states a new similarity measure that is used in a Web source discovery system called DOWSER . DOWSER aims at providing users with new sources of information related to their needs without considering the popularity of a page .
4 . [ 1 ] Akerkar , R . 2013 . Big Data Computing . Taylor and
REFERENCES
Francis/CRC .
[ 2 ] El Morr , C . and Maret P . 2012 . Virtual Community Building and the Information Society : Current and Future Directions . IGI Global . Rheingold , H . 2000 . The Virtual Community : Homesteading on the Electronic Frontier . MIT Press , London .
[ 3 ]
1470
