Echoes of Power : Language Effects and Power Differences in Social Interaction
Cristian Danescu Niculescu Mizil
Cornell University cristian@cscornelledu , llee@cscornelledu , bopang@yahoo inc.com ,
Lillian Lee
Cornell University
Bo Pang Yahoo!
Jon Kleinberg Cornell University kleinber@cscornelledu
ABSTRACT Understanding social interaction within groups is key to analyzing online communities . Most current work focuses on structural properties : who talks to whom , and how such interactions form larger network structures . The interactions themselves , however , generally take place in the form of natural language — either spoken or written — and one could reasonably suppose that signals manifested in language might also provide information about roles , status , and other aspects of the group ’s dynamics . To date , however , finding domain independent language based signals has been a challenge .
Here , we show that in group discussions , power differentials between participants are subtly revealed by how much one individual immediately echoes the linguistic style of the person they are responding to . Starting from this observation , we propose an analysis framework based on linguistic coordination that can be used to shed light on power relationships and that works consistently across multiple types of power — including a more “ static ” form of power based on status differences , and a more “ situational ” form of power in which one individual experiences a type of dependence on another . Using this framework , we study how conversational behavior can reveal power relationships in two very different settings : discussions among Wikipedians and arguments before the U . S . Supreme Court . Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences General Terms : Measurement , Experimentation Keywords power , relations , dependence , social status , linguistic style , coordination , linguistic convergence , language , online communities , dependence , accommodation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the arrival of detailed data on the interactions within social groups — generally coming from the on line domain — an active line of research has developed around the phenomena taking place in these groups . To date , these analyses have mainly used structural features of the interactions , including who talks to whom , how frequently , and how these patterns of interaction form larger network structures .
But the interactions themselves are generally taking place in natural language — both spoken and written — and the language con
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2012 , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1229 5/12/04 . tent of these interactions has been a long acknowledged missing ingredient in this style of investigation . The reason for this is clear : while it is reasonable to suppose that signals within the language could provide insight into the social structure of the group , it has been challenging to extract useful language level signals . A small but growing line of work has begun to use textual content for uncovering structural properties of on line networks [ 5 , 9 , 12 , 13 , 18 , 19 , 35 , 40 , 54 ] ; it is exciting to contemplate extending the range of social properties that can be analyzed via text .
Power and linguistic style . In this paper , we show how variations in linguistic style can provide information about power differences within social groups . Our focus is on domains in which groups engage in goal oriented discussions — situations where people interact , not necessarily collaboratively , in order to accomplish tasks or settle on choices . An important characteristic of such discussions is that the participants are invested in the issues at hand , so that their dialogs are not simply “ idle chat ” , but consequential : the outcome matters . Examples include conversations among wiki editors or open source teams regarding modifications ; debates within conference program committees on which papers to accept ; and discussions in legal hearings , where opposing sides compete to persuade a judge or jury .
Power differences among the participants constitute a crucial force in all these settings . Sometimes these power differences are embodied in formal roles , such as that of a judge or a program chair . Sometimes they are based on more informal differences in the respect or authority commanded by individuals within the group . And sometimes they are more situational : x may have power over y in a given situation because y needs something that x can choose to provide or not .
It is natural to ask how we might try to create widely applicable methods for inferring these power differences simply by observation of the language used within a group . This is particularly challenging if we are seeking methods that generalize across domains , and are not tied to specific choices of content . By way of analogy , imagine that you walk into a meeting among people you’ve never met , and on a topic that you know nothing about ; what could you do to identify who are the most powerful members of the group ? If you were actually able to observe the people and hear them speaking to each other , then cues such as posture and vocal pitch can provide such information [ 20 , 27 ] . But if we only have the text or transcripts of their interactions — the formats that online data often takes — how do we identify evidence of power differences ?
Language coordination . We propose that language coordination in text content alone can serve as a rich source of information about power differences within a group . Language coordination is a phe
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France699 nomenon in which people tend to unconsciously mimic the choices of function word classes made by the people they are communicating with [ 39 ] ; roughly speaking , if you are communicating with someone who uses a lot of articles — or prepositions , or personal pronouns — then you will tend to increase your usage of these types of words as well , even if you don’t consciously realize it.1
We measure language coordination in two datasets of goal oriented text that arise in very different settings : discussions among Wikipedia editors , containing over 240,000 conversational exchanges ; and oral arguments before the US Supreme Court , as processed by Hawes et al . [ 24 , 25 ] and containing 50,389 conversational exchanges among Justices and lawyers . By focusing on function word classes , rather than domain specific substantive content , we are able to evaluate the domain independence of our techniques and their ability to generalize across different contexts ; methods that rely on subjectspecific cues to determine levels of power ( such as the use of “ Your honor ” in a legal setting ) are not positioned to generalize as readily . To be able to speak in a principled way about power differences , we draw on the framework of exchange theory from sociology [ 51 ] . Exchange theory and its generalizations [ 49 ] have distinguished between two forms of power , which naturally parallel the types of power in our discussion above . First , a power difference between x and y can be based on the fact that x has higher status than y , either through a formal designation of status , or through more informal notions of status based on reputation within the group . Second , a power difference can also arise through dependence : if y needs something from x , and hence is dependent on x , this can give x a form of at least temporary power over y .
Power differences from language coordination . We find that differences in the level of language coordination consistently reveal both of these types of power differences , in both of our datasets . Specifically , we will present the following results .
1 . In general , people with low power exhibit greater language coordination than people with high power .
2 . Conversely , people coordinate more with interlocutors who have higher power than with those who have lower power .
3 . When a person undergoes a change in status , their coordination behavior changes , and so does the coordination behavior of people talking to them .
4 . When an individual is trying to convince someone who holds an opposing view , this creates a form of dependence and hence a power deficit in the sense of exchange theory ; we find increased levels of language coordination in such cases .
5 . The relation between status level and the extent of language coordination transfers across domains , and is a reliable crossdomain feature for status prediction .
These results suggest clear potential applications to the analysis of on line social groups . In particular , they could provide methods for identifying power differences and levels of status in on line settings where one has only the text content of social interactions , rather than explicit markers of status or explicitly annotated links . Similarly , they could also provide a means of analyzing conversations between users of a social media platform so as to determine the power balance or levels of relative status in their relationship .
1We note that language coordination is just one form of coordination where such phenomena occur [ 21 ] ( another is posture coordination , for example ) ; we focus on language coordination because it can be measured in textual interactions .
In all such uses , the methods do not require domain specific knowledge of the on line application being analyzed . We also note that the role of features internal to the content can be crucial in some of these settings , since it has been observed that message frequency and message volume do not necessarily suffice to determine relative status . As Rowe et al . state [ 42 ] , “ As we move down the corporate ladder , the conversational flows of dissimilar employees can in fact be quite similar . ” Indeed , it is easy to think of contexts where dominant individuals consume a lot of the conversational bandwidth , and others where , contrariwise , low status individual take up most of the airtime with their advocacy toward higher status participants . There is something striking about the fact that the content features being employed are properties of language that tend to escape conscious attention . The phenomena we find in the text content are consistent and significant , but they are not effects one notices in reading or listening to the interactions ; in essence , they operate on levels that only show up when you use computational methods to explicitly tune in to them . Moreover , since our methods are based on function words , it means one can apply them to language samples from which the content words have been redacted , raising intriguing implications for compact representations and user privacy .
Summary : Novel contributions of present work . Our use of language coordination as a key source of information draws on a history of coordination studies originating in social psychology ; we discuss this background in §2 . These psychological studies of coordination focused on small scale settings where participant behaviors could be individually observed ; the identification of language coordination phenomena in large scale on line text was done recently by [ 10 ] using data from Twitter . To our knowledge , our work is the first to identify connections between language coordination and social power relations at large scales , and across a diverse set of individuals and domains .
In addition , our work here provides the following further novel contributions .
Multiple domains with large amounts of data . By using large amounts of data , we can pick up subtle effects and explicitly vary some of the underlying conditions for coordination across different subsets of the data . Moreover , working with two different corpora allows us to test the domain independence of our linguisticcoordination approach .
Status change . Wikipedians can be promoted to administrator status through a public election , and almost always after extensive prior involvement in the community . Since we track the communications of editors over time , we can examine how linguistic coordination behavior changes when a Wikipedian becomes an “ admin ” . To our knowledge , our study is the first to analyze the effects of status change on specific forms of language use .
Situation dependent forms of power . By generalizing from status to broader notions of power , our study is , to our knowledge , also the first to show how multiple types of power relationships — and in particular situation dependent power — can be exposed through domain independent textual features .
2 . COORDINATION AND POWER
We can apply communication accommodation theory [ 20 , 21 , 38 , 45 ] , an influential line of research in sociolinguistics , to our investigations because the theory implies the following principle : Principle P . Linguistic coordination is a function of the power differential between the speaker and the target : the lower the power of the speaker relative to that of the target , the more
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France700 she coordinates ( and vice versa , the higher the relative power of the speaker , the less she coordinates ) .
Here and throughout , speaker refers to the person producing the reply in an exchange , and target refers to the person initiating the exchange ( and thus the target of the speaker ’s reply ) . 2 In the context of group conversations , which is the focus of the present work , this principle leads to the following two concrete hypotheses , based on the power of the target and of the speaker , respectively : Ptarget : People in general coordinate more towards high powered people than towards low powered people .
Pspeaker : High powered people coordinate less than low powered people towards their targets .
( Neither hypothesis implies the other because we employ an asymmetric definition of coordination . )
In addition to power imbalance , we hypothesize that personal traits of the participants also influence how much they coordinate : B . People have a baseline coordination level , which is determined by personal characteristics ( such as their sociability and level of social engagement ) .
It is worth noting that it is not actually a priori obvious that Ptarget and Pspeaker hold at large . First , there are competing theories which postulate that the relation between power and coordination is the reverse of P , due to a desire of high status individuals to be understood [ 2 ] . Second , empirical studies supporting the hypotheses above are , while intriguing , relatively small in scale . For example , [ 22 ] showed that Larry King , the host of a popular talkshow in the U . S . , coordinated more in his vocal pitch to his highstatus guests ( such as then President Clinton ) than to low status guests . As for linguistic style coordination , [ 39 ] looked at 15 Watergate transcripts involving only four people altogether ( Richard Nixon and three of his aides ) ; small numbers of courtroom trials have also been considered [ 1 , 15 ] . While power might correlate with certain personal traits in a given community , making the distinction between P and B difficult , they differ in one important aspect which we will exploit in our study : power can change abruptly — such as when an individual is assigned a new role — while personal traits , in comparison , are more stable over time . As a result , examining the temporal change in coordination level of people who have undergone changes in power can help us isolate the effect of P from that of B . In particular , this will help us address the following question : if we do find evidence supporting hypothesis B , would it be sufficient to explain the data , or will we see power playing a role on top of baseline individual coordination levels ?
3 . POWER RELATIONS IN WIKIPEDIA AND
SUPREME COURT DATA
In this section , we describe the two corpora of consequential discussions we used in our studies . The first consists of discussions between editors on Wikipedia ; the second consists of transcripts of oral arguments before the United States Supreme Court . Both settings involve power differentials , both through status and dependence , as we will see below . Our Wikipedia corpus is much larger , potentially more representative of online discussions , and allows us to study the effects of changes in power ; but the Supreme
Court represents a less collaborative situation than Wikipedia ( in the Supreme Court data , there are always explicit opposing sides ) and is an instance of an off line setting . The differences in the two corpora help us focus on general , domain independent relationships between relative power and linguistic coordination .
We begin by briefly describing the roles and text content of our two domains , and then discuss how we formalize the different kinds of power imbalances within the domains .
We will release our data publicly at http://wwwcscornelledu/
~cristian/www2012/ . 3.1 Discussions among Wikipedia editors Roles and role changes . Wikipedia editors form a close community with salient markers of status . Administrators , commonly known as admins , are Wikipedia editors “ trusted with access to restricted technical features ” such as protecting or deleting pages or blocking other editors3 . In effect , admins have a higher status than other users ( non admins ) in the Wikipedia community , and editors seem to be well aware of the status and activity history of other editors . Users are promoted to admins through a transparent election process known as requests for adminship4 , or RfAs , where the community decides who will become admins . Since RfAs are well documented and timestamped , not only do we have the current status of editors , we can also extract the exact time when editors underwent role changes from non admins to admins . Textual exchanges . Editors on Wikipedia interact on talk pages5 to discuss changes to article or project pages . We gathered 240,436 conversational exchanges carried out on the talk pages , where the participants of these ( asynchronous ) discussions were associated with rich status and social interaction information : status , timestamp of status change if there is one , and activity level on talk pages , which can serve as a proxy of editors’ sociability , or how socially inclined they are . In addition , there is a discussion phase during RfAs , where users “ give their opinions , ask questions , and make comments ” about an open nomination . Candidates can reply to existing posts during this time . We extracted conversations that occurred in RfA discussions , and obtained a total of 32,000 conversational exchanges . Most of our experiments were carried out on the larger dataset extracted from talk pages , unless otherwise noted . 3.2 Supreme Court oral arguments
While Wikipedia discussions provide a large scale dataset with rich meta information , overall , high status people and low status people are collaborating to accomplish a task . Other social hierarchies involve much less collaboration or even explicitly adversarial relationships . Oral arguments before the Supreme Court provide such a setting . Roles . A full court consists of nine Justices , although occasionally some recuse themselves . In the oral arguments for a case , lawyers for each party have thirty minutes to present their side to the Justices . The Justices may interrupt these presentations with comments or questions , leading to interactions between the lawyers ( plus amici curiae , who for our status based investigations count as lawyers ) and Justices . After the oral arguments and subsequent deliberations , cases are decided by majority vote of the Justices . This provides an interesting additional test ground : instead of asynchronous textual exchanges in a social hierarchy working collaboratively , here we have verbal exchanges in a social hierarchy where
2We use “ initiate ” and “ reply ” loosely : in our terminology , the conversation x : “ Hi . ” y : “ Tired ? ” x : “ No . ” has two exchanges , one initiated by x ’s “ Hi ” , the other by y ’s “ Tired ? ” .
3http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Wikipedia:Administrators 4http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_adminship 5http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Wikipedia:Talk_page_guidelines
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France701 higher power admins admins diff . vote
Status
Dependence
Wikipedia admins to be ( before RfAs ) lower power non admins same vote
Supreme Court higher power lower power
Status
Justices
Chief Justices
Dependence unfavorable Justice lawyers
Associate Justices favorable Justice
Table 1 : Power differentials exhibited in our data .
Justices decide the final outcome . In addition , conversations here are over topics in a completely different domain . Transcripts of verbal exchanges . Transcripts of oral arguments in Supreme Court are publicly available6 . We used a pre processed version of this dataset described in [ 24 ] . We enhanced this dataset with the final votes from the Spaeth Supreme Court database7 . In total , we have 50,389 verbal exchanges for 204 cases . 11 justices ( two of which have little conversational data : Thomas8 and Alito ) and 311 lawyers are represented in the dataset . 73 % of the lawyers only appear in one case , and the maximum number of cases where one lawyer appears is 15 . As such , trends identified on this dataset should not be due to idiosyncratic behavior of a few overrepresented lawyers . 3.3 Power Relations in the Data
Having now surveyed the nature of the two domains , we discuss the different kinds of power relations that they contain . An overview of the following discussion is summarized in Table 1.9
In our discussion of roles earlier in this section , we have already indicated some of the basic status differences : the distinction between admins and non admins on Wikipedia , and the distinction between Justices and lawyers in the context of the Supreme Court . We can also identify certain finer grained distinctions , including the distinction between the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court ( our data overlaps the terms of two different Chief Justices ) and the Associate Justices . And on Wikipedia , we can also study the behavior over time of users who were promoted to the position of admin — in effect , comparing their behavior as admins to their earlier behavior as admins to be .
Our data also makes it possible to study several instances of power differences based on dependence . To begin with , we note the general principle that status and dependence are almost never completely distinct [ 48 ] , since a person in a high status role frequently appears in situations where people are dependent on them . The data , however , offers us opportunities to study forms of dependence where the level of status has been largely controlled for . Key among these are forms of dependence created by the need to convince someone who disagrees with you . If you are advocating a position in a debate with opposing sides leading to an eventual de
6http://wwwsupremecourtgov/oral_arguments/ 7http://scdbwustledu/ 8In 2011 , Justice Thomas marked five terms without speaking in any oral arguments . [ 34 ] 9Throughout the paper we use color coding to indicate the relative power relations relevant for the respective discussion . These colors are simply intended as a helpful mnemonic and can be ignored without any loss of meaning . cision ( for example , a Supreme Court case , or a policy discussion on Wikipedia prior to a vote ) , then your audience can be roughly divided into two groups : people who would naturally tend to vote in favor of your position , and people who would naturally tend to vote against your position . Principles of exchange theory indicate that in such situations , you are more dependent on the people who would naturally vote against you , and less dependent on the people who would naturally vote for you , since in order to accomplish your goal , you need to effect a more substantial behavior change in the former group [ 14 , 30 , 52 ] . An important further point here is that in our settings , participants can readily anticipate , either through dialogue or advance knowledge , who is “ on their side ” and who is “ on the other side , ” and so it makes sense to suppose that they are aware of these dependence relations during the interaction .
Motivated by this , in the Supreme Court data we will compare levels of coordination of lawyers toward unfavorable Justices who ( eventually ) vote against their side and toward favorable Justices who ( eventually ) vote for their side ; there is more dependence and hence more of a power difference in the former case . In the Wikipedia data , we will compare levels of coordination of editors with others who vote the opposite way and with others who vote the same way ; here too , there is more dependence and hence more of a power difference in the former case . We should also note the exchangetheoretic principle that a dependence relation affects both sides : A ’s dependence on B is expected not just to affect A ’s behavior in their interaction , but B ’s as well .
4 . LINGUISTIC STYLE COORDINATION As discussed earlier , we use linguistic style coordination to quantify the degree to which one individual immediately echoes the linguistic style of the person they are responding to . Here , linguistic style is quantified by a person ’s usage of certain linguistic style markers ( = categories of function words ) . We first describe these markers , then give formal definitions of coordination . 4.1 Linguistic style markers
We measure the linguistic style of a person by their usage of categories of function words that have little semantic meaning , thereby marking style rather than content .
For consistency with prior work , we employed eight of the nine LIWC derived categories [ 41 ] deemed to be processed by humans in a generally non conscious fashion [ 28 ] . Our eight markers are thus : articles , auxiliary verbs , conjunctions , high frequency adverbs , impersonal pronouns , personal pronouns , prepositions , and quantifiers ( 451 lexemes total).10 4.2 Coordination measures
Here we present a variation and further analysis of the measure introduced in [ 10 ] , adapted to the setting of group conversations . Coordination with respect to a marker . We start by defining the coordination of one person b towards another person a with respect to a specific linguistic style marker m . We want to quantify how much the use of marker class m in an utterance of a ’s triggers the occurrence of m in b ’s immediate ( meaning next ) reply to that utterance . To put it another way , we want to measure how much a ’s use of m in an utterance u1 increases the probability that b will use m in his reply u2 , where the increase is relative to b ’s normal usage of m in conversations with a . We stress that we are thus looking at a more subtle phenomenon than whether b uses articles ( say ) more
10We discarded negation because it is sparse and seems to carry semantic meaning . [ 28 ] also discarded some negations .
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France702 overall when talking to a : we want to see whether b is so influenced by a as to change their function word usage in their very next reply . Recall from §2 that we call b the speaker and a the target of a conversational exchange ( a : u1 , b : u2 ) , since a is the target of b ’s reply when b speaks . We say an utterance exhibits m if it contains a word from category m . Let E m u1 be the event that utterance u1 ( spoken to b ) exhibits m ; similarly , let E m u2→u1 be the event that reply u2 to u1 exhibits m .
Given a set Sa,b of exchanges ( a : u1 , b : u2 ) , we define the coordination of b towards a as : Cm(b , a ) = P ( E m u2→u1 | E m u1 ) − P ( E m u2→u1 ) ,
( 1 ) where the probabilities are estimated over Sa,b , and where we require that at least one of a ’s utterances exhibits m in order for the first quantity to be defined . Properties . Eqn . ( 1 ) has several interesting properties . One nonobvious but important and useful characteristic is that it is a function not only of b ’s behavior , but also of a ’s , because it can be shown that ( 1 ) lies in the interval [ − ( 1 − P ( E m u1 ) ] . To see why a ’s behavior needs to be taken into account , consider one extreme case : where every utterance of a to b exhibits m . Then Cm(b , a ) = 0 no matter what b does in response , which makes sense because we have no evidence that any ( or no ) usage of articles by b is done in response to what a does — we don’t have any test cases to see what b does when a doesn’t employ a marker . u1 ) ) , 1 − P ( E m
Another extreme case is also illustrative : where a uses m only a few times when speaking to b , and b uses m when and only when a does . Then , Cm(b , a ) approaches 1 as P ( E m u1 ) approaches zero . Again , this makes intuitive sense : it is very unlikely that b matching a exactly on the few times a used m is due merely to chance .
Another property of measure ( 1 ) is that it is not symmetric , which fits the purpose of this study well , since the power relations we want to investigate are also asymmetric . See [ 11 ] for further discussion on the asymmetry . Coordination towards a group . In the context of group conversations , we can extend this definition to coordination of a particular speaker b towards a group of targets A by simply modifying the set of exchanges on which the probabilities in ( 1 ) are estimated . Specifically , given a set SA,b of exchanges ( a : u1 , b : u2 ) involving initial utterances u1 of various targets a ∈ A and replies u2 of b , the coordination of b to the group A is : u2→u1 | E m
Cm(b , A ) = P ( E m u1 ) − P ( E m u2→u1 ) ,
( 2 ) but where this time the probabilities are estimated over SA,b .
We then define the coordination of one group of people B towards another group A as the average coordination of speakers in B to targets in A :
Cm(B , A ) = Cm(b , A)b∈B
( 3 )
By taking the macro ( unweighted ) average , our measure will not be dominated by a few active speakers in a dataset . Aggregated measures . It is important to note that in general , coordination is multimodal : it does not necessarily occur simultaneously for all markers [ 17 ] , and speakers may coordinate on some features but diverge on others [ 47 ] . Hence , we also use aggregated measures of coordination of B to A to provide an overall picture of the level of coordination between the groups .
Ideally we want to simply compute C(b , A ) as the macro average of Cm(b , A ) across different markers m , and then compute C(B , A ) the same way as in ( 3 ) . Recall , however , that Cm(b , A ) can only be computed if SA,b contains enough exchanges exhibiting m to reliably estimate both probabilities in ( 2 ) , which is not always the case for all people with respect to all markers . For instance , some persons rarely use quantifiers , leaving C quant undefined in those instances .
We accounted for such “ missing values ” in three different ways , resulting in three aggregated measures :
Aggregated 1 Compute the “ ideal ” macro average C(b , A ) only for the persons b for whom Cm(b , A ) can be computed for all markers ; ignore all the others . This reduces the set of persons considered by the aggregated measure , but provides the most direct measure ( in the sense that it does not rely on any particular “ smoothing ” assumptions as the next two aggregated measures do ) .
Aggregated 2 For each person b , if Cm(b , A ) is undefined , we “ smooth ” it by using the group average Cm(B , A ) instead ; this measure considers everybody for which we can compute coordination for at least one marker , but assumes that people in a given group share similar coordination behavior .
Aggregated 3 For each person b , we take the average only over the markers for which Cm(b , A ) is defined ; this is equivalent to assuming that b would have exhibited the same level of coordination for the missing markers as they did with other markers . This aggregation also considers everybody for which we can compute coordination for at least one marker .
4.3 Formalization of the power hypotheses
Now that we have introduced a more formal definition of coordination between two groups of people , we formalize the hypotheses introduced in §2 in terms of this definition . If people in a group Ghigh have more power than people in a group Glow , and U is a set of arbitrary people , the power hypotheses can be rewritten as : Ptarget : C(U , Ghigh ) > C(U , Glow ) Pspeaker : C(Ghigh , U ) < C(Glow , U )
5 . EMPIRICAL INVESTIGATION
Using the concepts and formalism introduced in the previous sections , we can now investigate the relation between linguistic coordination and power differentials in concrete conversational settings . Specifically , we test whether the principle P and the hypotheses Ptarget and Pspeaker introduced in §2 can be empirically confirmed in the two datasets described in §3 . We begin by discussing power differences arising from status in Wikipedia ( where our primary status distinction will be admins vs . non admins ) and in the Supreme Court ( where our primary status distinction will be Justices vs . lawyers ) . After this , we consider power differences arising from dependence . 5.1 Power from status : Wikipedia First , communication behavior on Wikipedia provides evidence for hypothesis Ptarget : users coordinate more toward the ( higherpowered ) admins than toward the non admins ( Figure 1(a)).11
In the other direction , however , when comparing admins and non admins as speakers , the data provides evidence that is initially
11The major explanatory factor for these results does not appear to be wholesale repetition of phrases , even short ones . We note , for example , that with respect to the data used for computing conjunction coordination , only 0.7 % of the exchanges contain trigram repeats involving conjunctions and only 3.5 % contain bigram repeats involving conjunctions ; and the difference in coordination levels remains significant when exchanges with such repeats are discarded .
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France703 ( a ) Supporting Ptarget
( b ) Contradicting Pspeaker
( a ) Before RfA elections ( B )
( b ) In RfA discussions ( B )
Figure 1 : Status and linguistic coordination : ( a ) Users coordinate more towards admins ( high powered ) than towards nonadmins ( low powered ) , supporting hypothesis Ptarget ( indeed , significantly so in aggregate : see later part of this caption ) . ( b ) On the other hand , admins ( high powered ) coordinate more than non admins ( low powered ) when replying to other people , contradicting hypothesis Pspeaker . Note on all figures : ∗ ’s on the x axis ( eg , “ Article 1* ” in ( a ) ) indicate statistical significance , independent t test : *= “ p<0.05 ” ,**= “ p<0.01 ” ,***= “ p<0.001 ” . Next to each legend label , in parentheses , are : the number of users for Aggregated 1 ( ie , the users for which we can compute coordination for all markers ) and the total number of users for Aggregated 2 and 3 ( ie , the users for which we can compute coordination for at least one marker ) . “ Error bars ” do not indicate standard error ( we already marked statistical significance with stars ) but rather give an idea of how coordination values vary via the standard deviation , estimated by bootstrap resampling [ 29 ] . The y axis values are reported as percentages ( ie , multiplied by 100 ) for clarity . at odds with Pspeaker : as illustrated in Figure 1(b ) , admins coordinate to other people more than non admins do ( while the hypothesis predicted that they would coordinate less).12 We now explore some of the subtleties underlying this result , showing how it arises as a superposition of two effects . Personal characteristics : Hypothesis B . One possible explanation for the inconsistency of our observations with Pspeaker is the effect of personal characteristics suggested in Hypothesis B from §2 . Specifically , admin status was not conferred arbitrarily on a set of users ; rather , admins are those people who sought out this higher status and succeeded in achieving it . It is thus natural to suppose that , as a group , they may have distinguishing individual traits that are reflected in their level of language coordination .
Fortunately we can extract rich enough data from Wikipedia that it becomes possible , to a significant extent , to separate the effect of status from these individual traits , establishing that both effects play a role . Our separation of these effects is based on the fact that status can change abruptly , while personal characteristics , though mutable , are more stable over time . On Wikipedia , status changes
12Note that the observations shown in Figure 1(a ) do not imply those in Figure 1(b ) , nor vice versa . For example , the trend in Figure 1(a ) does not change if we restrict the speakers to be only non admins ( or only admins ) .
Figure 2 : Same status comparisons ( supporting a “ winner ” personality hypothesis ) : ( a ) admins to be coordinate more than those who remain non admins thoughout ; ( b ) during adminship elections ( RfAs ) , admins to be coordinate more than failed to be . are well documented , as they can occur only through an election process instigated by requests for adminship ( RfAs ) . When we compare the set of admins to be— future admins before they were promoted via their RfA — with non admins , Figure 2(a ) shows that the same differences in language coordination were already present in these two populations — hence , they are not an effect of status alone , since they were visible before the former population experienced a status upgrade .
Can we separate the effects of ambition from success ? Yes , because we can look at differences in coordination between users who were promoted ( admins to be ) , and those who went through the RfA process but were denied admin status ( failed to be ) . Both admins to be and failed to be had the ambition to become admins , but only members of the former group succeeded . We investigate coordination differnces between these two groups during a period when their adminship ambitions are arguably most salient : during the discussions in each user ’s own RfA process . Figure 2(b ) shows that even in the conversations they had on their RfA pages , the admins to be were coordinating more to the others than the failedto be , providing evidence for a strong form of Hypothesis B . Revisiting status : Hypothesis P speaker . We now return to the issue of status , and describe a method of partially controlling for personal characteristics so as to evaluate the following modification of Hypothesis Pspeaker : P speaker . When controlling for personal characteristics , high powered people coordinate less than low powered people .
To study P speaker , we create two populations for comparison : the interactions of each admin before his or her promotion via RfA ( ie , when they were admins to be ) , and the interactions of each admin after his or her respective promotion . Figure 3(a ) shows how the resulting comparison confirms P speaker : admins to be decrease their level of coordination once they gain power.13 Interestingly , the reverse seems to be true for failed to be : after failing 13Note that the trend shown in Figure 3(a ) is maintained when considering the exact same users in both groups ( ie , excluding the
Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3***QuantifierConjunction*Indef . pron*Adverb*Article*Aux verbPers . pronPreposition000510152025303540Coordinationtargets : admins ( 805 , 1027)targets : non admins ( 2307 , 3637)Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3**Quantifier*Conjunction*Indef . pron*AdverbArticle*Aux verbPers . pronPreposition000510152025303540Coordinationspeakers : admins ( 805 , 1027)speakers : non admins ( 2029 , 2856)Aggregated 1**Aggregated 2***Aggregated 3**Quantifier**Adverb*ConjunctionIndef . pronArticle*Aux verb**Pers . pronPreposition000510152025303540Coordinationspeakers : admins to be ( 180 , 277)speakers : non admins ( 2029 , 2856)Aggregated 1Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3*QuantifierArticle*ConjunctionIndef . pronAdverbAux verb*PrepositionPers . pron000510152025303540Coordinationspeakers : admins to be ( 44 , 81)speakers : falied to be ( 131 , 227)WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France704 ( a ) Supporting P speaker
( b ) Timed change ( P ) effect of status
Figure 3 : Effect of status change . ( a ) admins to be coordinate less after they become admins ; ( b ) Aggregated 1 coordination of the user ( as speaker ) and , respectively , towards the user ( as target ) before and after status change occurs through RfA . in their RfAs — an event that arguably reinforces their failure to achieve high status in the community — they coordinate more ( p value < 0.05 ; figure omitted due to space limitations ) . In addition , we can employ status change to reinforce Ptarget in a setting that controls for personal characteristics : we find that users coordinate more to admins after promotion than when they were admins to be ( p value<005 )
Finally , in Figure 3(b ) , we investigate how quickly the change in status is reflected in the communication behavior of the users involved . In addition to the monotonic changes in coordination levels over time , and in the hypothesized directions , it is interesting to note that the most dramatic change in coordination is visible in the second month after the change in status occurred . This suggests a period of acclimation to the newly gained status , both for the person that undergoes the change and for those witnessing it . 5.2 Power from status : Supreme Court
In the setting of the Supreme Court , status differences are extremely salient and do not suffer from the correlations that added complexity to the study of Pspeaker in its original form . Also , conversations during the oral arguments ( almost ) always are between a Justice and a lawyer . Thus , our basic finding can be expressed succinctly in Figure 4 , which shows significantly more coordination from lawyers to Justices than vice versa14
In the Supreme Court setting we can also study finer grained status distinctions , to see if these too are manifested in language coordination differences . Indeed , in concordance with Ptarget , we observe that lawyers coordinate significantly more toward the Chief Justice than toward the Associate Justices ( p value<001 ) users which did not have enough conversations both before and after adminship ) . Also note that we allow a time buffer of a month after the RfAs between the two sets of conversations we compare . 14Throughout , we consider each appearance of a given Justice or lawyer in a different case as a separate entity , which allows for different behaviors in different cases and increases the number of datapoints .
Figure 4 : Lawyers coordinate more to Justices than conversely .
.
( a ) Dependence : Ptarget
( b ) Dependence : Pspeaker
Figure 5 : Dependence and linguistic coordination : ( a ) lawyers adjust their coordination level according to whether the Justice is unfavorable or favorable , supporting Ptarget ; ( b ) favorable Justices coordinate more than unfavorable Justices ( Pspeaker ) .
5.3 Power from dependence
As noted in §3 , we can study power differences based on dependence — even for fixed levels of status difference — using the exchange theoretic principle that the need to convince someone who disagrees with you creates a form of dependence [ 14 , 30 , 52 ] . Moreover , this power difference is predicted to be felt by both sides — the side with lower power and the side with higher power .
In the case of lawyer Justice interactions , let us define the Justice to be favorable to the lawyer if he or she ends up voting on the lawyer ’s side , and unfavorable if he or she ends up voting against the lawyer ’s side . It is well understood that the Justices often come into the case with a general leaning toward one side or the other based on their judicial philosophy — this has been acknowledged for example in interviews with members of the Court [ 43 ] — and lawyers through their preparation for the case will come in with knowledge of these leanings . Hence it is reasonable to suppose that the favorable unfavorable distinction will be salient to the interaction during oral arguments .
And indeed , Figures 5(a ) and 5(b ) show that the power differences created by this form of dependence are reflected in the amount of coordination , in both directions . First , lawyers coordinate more
Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2*Aggregated 3QuantifierConjunctionAdverbIndef . pronArticleAux verb**Pers . pronPreposition000510152025303540Coordinationspeaker before RfA ( 184 , 281)speaker after RfA ( 762 , 974)prev . monthStatus change1st month2nd month3rd month000510152025303540Coordinationadmin to beadminas speakeras targetAggregated 1***Aggregated 2***Aggregated 3***Quantifier**Adverb*ConjunctionArticle*Pers . pron***Indef pron***Preposition***Aux verb***0123456CoordinationJustices to lawyers ( 815 , 1307)lawyers to Justices ( 500 , 535)Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2***Aggregated 3***Quantifier*Adverb*Pers . pron**Indef pron*Article*Preposition**ConjunctionAux verb0123456Coordinationtarget : unfavorable Justice ( 302 , 913)target : favorable Justice ( 135 , 644)Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3QuantifierAdverb**ConjunctionArticlePers . pronIndef pronPrepositionAux verb0123456Coordinationspeaker : unfavorable Justice ( 346 , 888)speaker : favorable Justice ( 197 , 641)WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France705 toward unfavorable Justices ( on whom they are more dependent ) than toward favorable Justices , in keeping with Ptarget . Second , unfavorable Justices coordinate less toward lawyers than favorable Justices do , in keeping with Pspeaker . Given the formal framework of impartiality that characterizes the Justices ’s behavior at the Supreme Court , it is intriguing to see the undercurrent of language coordination differences nevertheless hinting at their eventual decision .
We see a similar effect of dependence on coordination in the context of discussions with opposing sides on Wikipedia . During RfAs , one voter may try to change the opinion of voters on the other side who have already cast their vote . ( Changing your vote during the RfA process is allowed , and hence there is an incentive to convince voters to consider this . ) Users coordinated more when engaging with users on the opposite side than with those who voted the same way ( p value<0.05 ; for space reasons we omit the figure ) . This finding too , via the arguments about opposing sides and dependence , supports the general power coordination principle P .
6 . CROSS DOMAIN ANALYSIS AND INTER
ACTION AMONG HYPOTHESES
6.1 Coordination as a Cross Domain Feature Part of the motivation for studying the relation between coordination and power is that the principles that govern this relation appear to be domain independent . Here we perform a set of analyses to show that coordination features do generalize across our two domains more effectively than other text based features for the problem of inferring power . We find that indeed , compared to the other features we consider , they are the only set of features to display any non trivial generalization .
Our analysis is based on the following prediction task : for a given pair of different status people x and y who have engaged in conversations with each other , we predict whether x has the higher status . In this setting , a random guess baseline would achieve 50 % accuracy . We stress , however , that this prediction task is primarily a means to assess cross domain generalization , ie , not as a freestanding task in itself . Indeed , the best achievable performance on this status prediction task appears to be quite domain dependent . In some domains such as the Supreme Court , idiosyncratic cues in text usage ( eg , lawyers begin their sentences with stylized lead ins , such as “ Your honor ” , that clearly mark them as lawyers , not Justices ) enable almost perfect performance when these cues are available as features . In other domains , such as Wikipedia , an informal evaluation using two human annotators familiar with the domain produced only 70 % accuracy ( and an inter annotator agreement of only 80% ) . Thus , our interest is not in whether coordination features achieve the best within domain performance , but in whether they are particularly effective at generalizing ( as we indeed find them to be ) . Experimental setup . Let Rx be x ’s replies to y , and Ry be y ’s replies to x , and Len(S ) be the average length of all utterances in the set S . Let Fstyle be the set of 8 stylistic markers introduced in §41 We define the following sets of features used as input to an SVM classifier :
• coordination features : binary features indicating , for each m ∈ Fstyle as well as for Aggregated 115 , whether x coordinates more to y than y to x on m
15We only considered pairs of participants for which enough data was available to compute coordination on all stylistic features . coordination features ( 9 altogether ) stylistic features ( 18 altogether ) bag of words ( 20,000 altogether )
Training corpus wiki Test corpus wiki 57.7 59.2 51.4 in domain court court 70.4 51.4 99.5 cross domain wiki court wiki court 55.0 57.1 51.9 50.0 45.2 40.1
Table 2 : Prediction accuracy for SVM ’s using various feature sets . Cross domain results are in the right hand two columns . Bold = results significantly better than chance .
• stylistic features : frequency of each marker m ∈ Fstyle in Rx and , respectively , in Ry ; also , Len(Rx ) , Len(Ry ) . We use this feature set to examine whether style alone is predictive on its own , or whether specifically stylistic coordination is key
• bag of words : frequency of each word in Rx , frequency of each word in Ry , L2 normalized
For experiments on the Wikipedia data , which we denote as wiki , we considered ( admin , non admin ) pairs ( for conversations occurring after the admins were elected ) . For the Supreme Court dataset ( court ) , we considered ( Justice , lawyer ) pairs16 .
For in domain experiments , we report average accuracy over cross validation within the same domain ( ie , training and test corpora are both wiki or court ) ; for cross domain experiments , we train on one domain and test on the other . Results . Table 2 summarizes the results . We find that coordination features are the only ones to perform statistically significantly better than random guessing in the cross domain settings — the other classifiers simply learn cues that are idiosyncratic to their training data , and fail to generalize . ( Note for example that the bag ofwords method picks up on the near perfect lexical cues marking lawyers in the Supreme Court data , but this method performs worse than random guessing when applied to the other domain . )
Even looking at the in domain tasks — which were not our primary focus here — we find that coordination features are the only ones that perform statistically significantly better than random guessing on both datasets . 6.2 Interactions among Hypotheses P and B In §5 we saw that the interaction between personal characteristics ( which form the basis for Hypothesis B ) and power differentials ( which form the basis for Hypothesis P ) can lead to complex effects . Here we consider two cases where this interaction raises interesting issues , and point to open questions in the analysis of coordination .
An individual ’s level of social engagement is one type of personal characteristic that interacts with coordination and power . As a simple proxy for social engagement , for purposes of discussion here , we consider the volume of communication the individual engages in . As we noted in §1 , simple volume measures such as this do not seem to readily yield domain independent information about power , since they vary considerably across domains — in some domains the powerful people talk a lot , and in others they talk relatively little . For example , when people are promoted to admin status , their volume of communication goes up while ( as we have
16In order to focus on the conversational exchanges and avoid exchanges in which the lawyers formally introduce their case , we considered only cases where the length difference between the two utterances were fewer than 20 words .
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France706 seen ) their level of coordination goes down . On the other hand , lawyers talk more than Justices in the Supreme Court data , and ( again as we have seen ) they also coordinate more in the lawyerJustice interactions .
However , if we restrict attention to a fixed sub population within a given domain , there are interesting connections between coordination and volume that suggest further questions . In particular , on Wikipedia we consider the number of replies posted by a user on talk pages as a measure of communication volume , and hence a proxy for their level of social engagement on the site . We compared users in the top 1/3 of the sorted order by communication volume with users in the bottom 1/3 , finding that users with higher numbers of replies are more likely to coordinate to others ( p value<005 ) We observed the same effect when we compared the communication volumes of users with the same status : among admins , users with more communication are also more likely to coordinate , and the same trend holds among non admins . Similar effects also hold for other measures of communication volume . Again , we note that other domains ( such as the Supreme Court ) show an inverse relation between volume and coordination in the communication transcripts , and so it is an interesting question to identify the principles that determine how this relationship plays out in different settings . We also consider a second basic example that raises an interesting challenge for distinguishing between Hypotheses P and B : the effect of gender on coordination , using the fact that gender information is available for participants in the Supreme Court dataset .
( a ) gender differences in speakers
( b ) gender differences in targets
Figure 6 : Gender differences
The main finding here , in Figure 6 , is that overall female lawyers coordinate more than male lawyers when talking to Justices , and correspondingly , Justices coordinate more towards male lawyers than towards female lawyers . Given the extensive history of work exploring culturally embedded status and power differences based on gender [ 3 , 48 ] , one interpretation of this finding is directly in terms of Hypothesis P . However , since it is also potentially related to theories of gender based communication differences [ 26 ] and even gender based language adaptation differences [ 40 ] , the question of separating Hypotheses P and B becomes challenging here . We think it is a promising possibility that language coordination effects may be able to serve as a lens through which to measure many similar kinds of distinctions in both on line and off line conversational settings .
7 . FURTHER RELATED WORK
In the opening sections , we have discussed some of the ways in which earlier work used text content to analyze on line networks [ 9 , 12 , 19 , 35 , 54 ] , as well as background on language coordination and the exchange theoretic notions of power from status and dependence . Here we discuss some further work that is related to the general issues we consider here . Power and structural features . There has been extensive work on using structural features , rather than language , to infer notions of “ importance ” in networks , both in the literature on social networks [ 16 ] and on the Web [ 8 ] . Recent work has also studied the inference of status from on line social network features [ 23 , 33 ] . Power and language . The relation between linguistic coordination17 and status has mostly been examined in small scale contexts : 15 Watergate transcripts [ 39 ] , 40 courtroom cases [ 1 ] , or a single simulated courtroom trial [ 15 ] . A recent large scale study of language coordination in the on line domain [ 10 ] used data from Twitter , where markers of status and power are not as readily inferred ; they identified a weak correlation between language coordination and Twitter follower counts , suggesting a potential connection to status measures . Additionally , researchers have used text features other than linguistic coordination to identify status differences [ 5 , 13 , 18 , 37 , 44 ] ; in contrast with our work , these methods picked up situation specific cues , such as the word “ termination ” for the Enron corporate email corpus [ 13 ] , which are unlikely to generalize across contexts . Collaborative communities . Interaction in online communities has been extensively studied . Wikipedia was used as a testbed for studying user interaction at large [ 4 , 31 , 36 , 46 , 50 ] and the promotion process in such communities [ 7 , 32 ] . Reviewer behavior and incentives to participate in the collaborative process were studied in the context of commercial review sites [ 6 , 19 , 36 , 53 ] .
Acknowledgments . We thank Timothy Hawes for sharing the processed Supreme Court transcripts from [ 25 ] , and B . Abrahao , E . Baumer , C . Cardie , E . Choi , C . Diehl , S . Dumais , S . Edelman , J . Eisenstein , M . Gamon , S . Herring , M . Ireland , D . Minculescu , A . Niculescu Mizil , M . Ott , J . Park , P . Resnik , D . Romero , C . Tan , L . Wang , B . Yang , A . Yessenalina , and the anonymous reviewers for valuable discussions and suggestions . This paper is based upon work supported in part by the NSF grant IIS 0910664 , IIS 1016099 , and grants from Google and Yahoo! .
References [ 1 ] K . Aronsson , L . Jönsson , P . Linell . The courtroom hearing as a middle ground : Speech accommodation by lawyers and defendants . J . Lang . and Social Psych . , 6(2):99–115 , 1987 .
[ 2 ] A . Bell . Language style as audience design . Language in Society ,
13(2):145–204 , 1984 .
[ 3 ] J . Berger , B . P . Cohen , M . Zelditch Jr . Status characteristics and social interaction . American Sociological Review , 37(3):241–255 , 1972 .
[ 4 ] M . Billings , L . A . Watts . Understanding dispute resolution online :
Using text to reflect personal and substantive issues in conflict . CHI , 1447–1456 , 2010 .
[ 5 ] P . Bramsen , M . Escobar Molana , A . Patel , R . Alonso . Extracting social power relationships from natural language . ACL HLT , 2011 .
[ 6 ] S . L . Bryant , A . Forte , A . Bruckman . Becoming Wikipedian : transformation of participation in a collaborative online encyclopedia . GROUP , 1–10 , 2005 .
17For brevity , we exclude studies of the effects of status on other types of coordination , such as pitch and vocal features , which are absent from textually manifested discussions ( see [ 20 ] for a survey ) or on related phenomena such as information density matching [ 1 ] .
Aggregated 1*Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3*QuantifierAdverb*Pers . pronIndef pron*ConjunctionArticle*Preposition**Aux verb0123456Coordinationspeaker : male lawyers ( 405 , 435)speaker : female lawyers ( 81 , 85)Aggregated 1**Aggregated 2**Aggregated 3*QuantifierAdverbConjunction*Article*Pers . pronPreposition*Indef pronAux verb0123456Coordinationtarget : male lawyers ( 426 , 436)target : female lawyers ( 85 , 85)WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France707 [ 7 ] M . Burke , R . Kraut . Mopping up : Modeling Wikipedia promotion decisions . CSCW , 27–36 , 2008 .
[ 30 ] J . P . Kotter . Power , dependence , and effective management . Harvard
Business Review , 125–136 , July 1977 .
[ 8 ] S . Chakrabarti . Mining the Web : discovering knowledge from hypertext data . Morgan Kaufmann , 2003 .
[ 9 ] M . D . Conover , J . Ratkiewicz , M . Francisco , B . Goncalves ,
A . Flammini , F . Menczer . Political polarization on Twitter . ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 10 ] C . Danescu Niculescu Mizil , M . Gamon , S . Dumais . Mark my words! Linguistic style accommodation in social media . WWW , 2011 .
[ 11 ] C . Danescu Niculescu Mizil , L . Lee . Chameleons in imagined conversations : A new approach to understanding coordination of linguistic style in dialogs . ACL Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics Workshop , 2011 .
[ 12 ] M . De Choudhury , W . A . Mason , J . M . Hofman , D . J . Watts .
Inferring relevant social networks from interpersonal communication . WWW , 301–310 , 2010 .
[ 13 ] C . P . Diehl , G . Namata , L . Getoor . Relationship identification for social network discovery . Proceedings of the AAAI Workshop on Enhanced Messaging , volume 22 , 546–552 , 2007 .
[ 14 ] R . M . Emerson . Power dependence relations . American Sociological
Review , 27:31–40 , 1962 .
[ 15 ] B . Erickson , E . A . Lind , B . C . Johnson , W . M . O’Barr . Speech style and impression formation in a court setting : The effects of "powerful" and "powerless" speech . J . Experimental Social Psychology , 14(3):266 – 279 , 1978 .
[ 16 ] K . Faust , S . Wasserman . Social network analysis : Methods and applications . Cambridge University Press New York , 1994 .
[ 17 ] K . Ferrara . Accommodation in therapy . Accommodation theory :
Communication , context , and consequences . Cambridge University Press , 1991 .
[ 18 ] E . Gilbert . Phrases that signal workplace hierarchy . CSCW , 2012 . [ 19 ] E . Gilbert , K . Karahalios . Predicting tie strength with social media .
CHI , 211–220 , 2009 .
[ 20 ] H . Giles . Communication Accommodation Theory . Engaging theories in interpersonal communication : Multiple perspectives , 161–173 . Sage Publications , Inc , 2008 .
[ 21 ] H . Giles , J . Coupland , N . Coupland . Accommodation theory :
Communication , context , and consequence . Contexts of accommodation : Developments in applied sociolinguistics . Cambridge University Press , 1991 .
[ 22 ] J . Gregory , Stanford W . , S . Webster . A nonverbal signal in voices of interview partners effectively predicts communication accommodation and social status perceptions . J . Personality and Social Psych . , 70(6):1231 , 1996 .
[ 23 ] R . Guha , R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , A . Tomkins . Propagation of trust and distrust . WWW , 403–412 , 2004 .
[ 24 ] T . Hawes . Computational analysis of the conversational dynamics of the United States Supreme Court . Master ’s thesis , University of Maryland , 2009 .
[ 25 ] T . Hawes , J . Lin , P . Resnik . Elements of a computational model for multi party discourse : The turn taking behavior of Supreme Court justices . JASIST , 60(8):1607–1615 , 2009 .
[ 26 ] S . C . Herring . Gender and power in on line communication . The
Handbook of Language and Gender , 202–228 . 2003 .
[ 27 ] L . Huang , A . D . Galinsky , D . H . Gruenfeld , L . E . Guillory . Powerful
Postures Versus Powerful Roles . Psychological Science , 22(1):95–102 , 2011 .
[ 28 ] M . E . Ireland , R . B . Slatcher , P . W . Eastwick , L . E . Scissors , E . J .
Finkel , J . W . Pennebaker . Language style matching predicts relationship initiation and stability . Psychological Science , 22:39–44 , 2011 .
[ 29 ] P . Koehn . Statistical significance tests for machine translation evaluation . EMNLP , 388–395 , 2004 .
[ 31 ] D . Laniado , R . Tasso , Y . Volkovich , A . Kaltenbrunner . When the
Wikipedians talk : Network and tree structure of Wikipedia discussion pages . ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 32 ] J . Leskovec , D . Huttenlocher , J . Kleinberg . Governance in Social
Media : A case study of the Wikipedia promotion process . ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 33 ] J . Leskovec , D . Huttenlocher , J . Kleinberg . Predicting positive and negative links in online social networks . WWW , 641–650 , 2010 .
[ 34 ] A . Liptak . Clarence Thomas Keeps 5 Year Supreme Court Silence .
The New York Times , February 2011 .
[ 35 ] A . Livne , M . P . Simmons , E . Adar , L . A . Adamic . The party is over here : Structure and content in the 2010 election . ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 36 ] Y . Lu , P . Tsaparas , A . Ntoulas , L . Polanyi . Exploiting social context for review quality prediction . WWW , 691–700 , 2010 .
[ 37 ] A . McCallum , X . Wang , A . Corrada Emmanuel . Topic and role discovery in social networks with experiments on Enron and academic email . JAIR , 30(1):249–272 , 2007 .
[ 38 ] M . Natale . Convergence of mean vocal intensity in dyadic communication as a function of social desirability . J . Personality and Social Psych . , 32(5):790 – 804 , 1975 .
[ 39 ] K . G . Niederhoffer , J . W . Pennebaker . Linguistic style matching in social interaction . J . Lang . and Social Psych . , 21(4):337–360 , 2002 .
[ 40 ] J . Otterbacher , L . Hemphill . Learning the lingo ? Gender , prestige and linguistic adaptation in review communities . Proceedings of CSCW , 2012 .
[ 41 ] J . W . Pennebaker , R . J . Booth , M . E . Francis . Linguistic inquiry and word count ( LIWC ) : A computerized text analysis program . http://wwwliwcnet/ , 2007 .
[ 42 ] R . Rowe , G . Creamer , S . Hershkop , S . J . Stolfo . Automated social hierarchy detection through email network analysis . Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and social network analysis , 109–117 , 2007 .
[ 43 ] A . Scalia . Interview with Justice Antonin Scalia ( transcript ) .
C SPAN ( 2009 06 19 ) , 2009 .
[ 44 ] A . J . Scholand , Y . R . Tausczik , J . W . Pennebaker . Social language network analysis . CSCW , 23–26 , 2010 .
[ 45 ] R . L . Street , H . Giles . Speech accommodation theory . Social cognition and communication . Sage Publications , 1982 .
[ 46 ] D . Taraborelli , G . L . Ciampaglia . Beyond notability . Collective deliberation on content inclusion in Wikipedia . Second international workshop on quality in techno social systems , 2010 .
[ 47 ] J . Thakerar , H . Giles , J . Cheshire . Psychological and linguistic parameters of speech accommodation theory . Advances in the Social Psychology of Language . Cambridge , 1982 .
[ 48 ] S . Thye . A status value theory of power in exchange relations .
American Sociological Review , 65:407–432 , June 2000 .
[ 49 ] S . Thye , D . Willer , B . Markovsky . From status to power : New models at the intersection of two theories . Social Forces , 84:1471–1495 , 2006 .
[ 50 ] F . B . Viégas , M . Wattenberg , J . Kriss , F . van Ham . Talk before you type : Coordination in Wikipedia . HICSS , 78–78 , 2007 .
[ 51 ] D . Willer . Network Exchange Theory . Praeger , 1999 . [ 52 ] R . J . Wolfe , K . L . McGinn . Perceived relative power and its influence on negotiations . Group Decision and Negotiation , 14:3–20 , 2005 .
[ 53 ] F . Wu , B . A . Huberman . Opinion formation under costly expression .
ACMTrans . Intelligent Systems and Technology , 1(1):1–13 , 2010 .
[ 54 ] F . Wu , B . A . Huberman , L . A . Adamic , J . R . Tyler . Information flow in social groups . Physica A : Statistical and Theoretical Physics , 337(1 2):327–335 , 2004 .
WWW 2012 – Session : Social Interactions and the WebApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France708
