A Revenue Sharing Mechanism for Federated Search and
Advertising
Marco Brambilla , Sofia Ceppi ,
{mbrambil , ceppi , ngatti}@eletpolimiit
Nicola Gatti
Politecnico di Milano , Italy
University of Southampton , UK
Enrico H . Gerding eg@ecssotonacuk
ABSTRACT Federated search engines combine search results from two or more ( general–purpose or domain–specific ) content providers . They enable complex searches ( eg , complete vacation planning ) or more reliable results by allowing users to receive high quality results from a variety of sources . We propose a new revenue sharing mechanism for federated search engines , considering different actors involved in the search results generation ( ie , content providers , advertising providers , hybrid content+advertising providers , and content integrators ) . We extend the existing sponsored search auctions by supporting heterogeneous participants and redistribution of monetary values to the different actors , while maintaining flexibility in the payment scheme .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Economics ; H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Design , Economics , Experimentation
Keywords Computational Advertising , Federated Search Engine , Revenue Sharing , Auctions , Mechanism Design , Web Search
1 .
INTRODUCTION
General–purpose search engines are the main way for users to access information . However , there is an increasing demand for more sophisticated queries , higher quality of results , and richer media related to a query , such as images , videos , and pieces of news . Federated Search Engines ( FSEs ) , which integrate a broad set of data sources , are better able to address these user needs . This class of search engines supports the publishing and integration of high–quality data sources for vertical domains ( extracted from the deep web or curated data repositories ) or for general–purpose information , possibly allowing the user to select the sources and get improved results with respect to traditional search engines . FSEs must also integrate advertising service providers , which are crucial to ensure both the economic sustainability and quality of the results . Our focus is on the latter .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Our work is closely related to the auctions for pay–per– click sponsored search and display advertising . However , even though there are many works that study sponsored search auctions , none of these deal with the problem faced by an FSE which needs to aggregate information from different types of sources , and provide them with adequate compensation . Only a few works have addressed the problem of revenue sharing mechanisms in search applications [ 2 , 3 ] , but none of them have addressed the general scenario of federated search , where different classes of actors are involved in the search results generation .
To address the above problem , we extend the work in [ 2 ] and we propose a novel ad–hoc revenue sharing mechanism for FSEs . Specifically , we use mechanism design [ 4 ] to introduce a new payment mechanism that redistributes the yields from advertising to produce adequate monetary incentives to all the actors in the system .
2 . FSE CHARACTERIZATION
An FSE is essentially a sophisticated content integrator that exploits and integrates existing information sources , including both content providers and advertisement providers . The FSE can implement two main business cases :
1 ) multi–domain search approach , where users can submit complex queries about different topics or items at a time . The multi–domain query is split into a number of single– domain queries , each one addressed by a domain–specific content service provider . Results are then produced by combining the various domain–specific items ;
2 ) meta–search approach , where users submit traditional , simple queries but expect results to be more accurate than in a general–purpose search engine . The same query is forwarded to several engines and the results consist of the union and re–ranking of the different result sets .
In both cases , the FSE collects contents and advertisements , and publishes them together in every result page generated as a response to a user query . The choice of how many ads and content items to show on the Web page is determined by the FSE , which also selects the information sources used to generate the results shown .
Each of these sources belongs to one of the following classes : Content–Only Providers ( CPs ) ( eg , zillow.com ) provide content for the FSE . The content consists of datasets with a high information value for the users because of their precision , completeness , detail and/or coverage . It is the core intellectual property for the CP and is costly to produce .
Integrated Content and Advertising Providers ( CAPs ) ( eg , Google ) provide contents while at the same time serving their own ads ( as opposed to using third–party services ) .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France465 Typically , these websites would allow third parties , such as the FSE , to publish their search results by requiring the FSE to show ( some of ) their ads too .
Advertising Providers ( APs ) ( eg , Yahoo! ’s RightMedia , Google ’s AdSense ) only offer advertisement services . They publish ads from a set of advertisers and their goal is to provide targeted ads to users who visit partner web sites .
In addition to the three classes of providers , the FSE involves two classes of stakeholders interested in using the system : end users , who visit the FSE web site , submit their queries , read the results and possibly click on the shown advertisements ; and advertisers , who provide ( and pay ) the ads to the APs and CAPs .
3 . REVENUE SHARING MECHANISM
The FSE scenario requires an intricate revenue sharing mechanism that provides the appropriate incentives to all the providers . To this end , our approach is based on the following assumptions/requirements : ( i ) the only revenue sources of the system are the advertisers , who pay the APs and CAPs for getting their ads published , with a pay–per– click model ; ( ii ) the FSE can integrate different heterogeneous providers , adopting , for each of them , a possibly different payment or compensation mechanism ; ( iii ) to grant adequate compensation to every provider that takes part to the FSE ’s activity , an appropriate redistribution of the revenue may be necessary ; ( iv ) the approach must grant flexibility to the needs of both the FSE and the providers in a variety of business scenarios , in particular including : profit–seeking and non–profit FSEs ; different sizes of the eco–system , in terms both of classes and numbers of providers .
The revenue–sharing process starts with the advertisements , which are communicated by the APs and CAPs to the FSE , which in turn allocates ( a subset of ) them to the available slots . Once an ad has been clicked , the corresponding advertiser pays the provider in which it is registered . For simplicity , we assume that payments are per click and that they are defined according to some auction model ( eg using GSP , although here we do not consider the specifics of the mechanism used by the APs and CSPs , and our revenue sharing mechanism is independent of this choice ) . The mechanism ’s aim is to produce an allocation that maximizes the total revenue of the system . In order to achieve that , the mechanism needs to elicit private information from the providers about the individual ads ( eg , values ) . However , providers could misreport their true information , if they gain more by doing so , thereby hindering the mechanism to find the allocation maximizing the total revenue .
Once the total revenue has been established , in the next step , APs and CAPs give a portion of the revenue received by the advertisers , as defined by the payment function of the mechanism ( as in [ 2] ) , to the FSE . The FSE subsequently redistributes a portion of the received revenue , as per the redistribution function of the mechanism , to the actors . The redistribution function we propose is an extension of the work presented in [ 1 ] . In particular , the novelty of our redistribution function is that it is parametric , a weight being assigned to each providers’ class . Our function is asymptotically optimal , ie , it is not possible to redistribute more without creating incentives for some providers to misreport . Note that this redistribution includes also the APs and CAPs even if they already possess part of the revenue coming from the advertisers . This redistribution is important to satisfy the adequate compensation requirement , which provides the proper
Figure 1 : Average expected revenues of a single CP , AP , and CAP as ratio of the total revenue . incentives to all the actors to take part in the mechanism with all their assets . In particular , the mechanism must ensure that actors that can play a certain role ( in particular , CAPs ) are not tempted to change it , by dropping either the content or advertising service provisioning aspects .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
We empirically evaluate our revenue sharing mechanism with the aim of comparing the revenues of the actors using different configurations . In particular , we consider the configuration in which the weight assigned to CPs or APs is zero ( R1 and R2 , respectively ) , the weights are equal for all the providers’ classes ( R3.1 ) , the weight of CAPs is higher than the one of the other classes ( R3.2 , R33 ) Our empirical evaluation is based on the Yahoo! Webscope A3 dataset .
We start by considering the FSE ’s expected revenue . With no redistribution , the FSE ’s expected revenue is about 49.3 % of the total revenue , while with redistribution the revenue is always below 10 % of the total revenue . This implies lower incomes for the FSE , but in general a higher motivation for the providers , which will be pushed towards producing better results and advertising , so as to be kept in the loop .
We now focus on the average redistribution to each single CP , AP , and CAP , as a ratio of the total revenue . Notice that , while the revenue of CPs is exclusively due to the redistributions , the revenue of APs and CAPs is composed of two parts : what they receive without redistribution and the redistribution itself . In Fig 1 we visualize this difference by dividing the bars corresponding to APs and CAPs into two parts , where the upper part is due to the redistributions . Since CAPs receive revenue even without redistribution , the overall expected revenue of this class of providers is always larger than that of CPs . Moreover , it is also never smaller than the revenue of an AP . Thus , the risk that CAPs misreport and behave like CPs or APs is avoided .
We also observe that the overall redistribution monotoni cally increase as the number of providers increases .
Acknowledgments . This research is partly supported by the “ Search Computing ” ( SeCo ) project , funded by ERC , under the 2008 Call for “ IDEAS Advanced Grants ” .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Cavallo . Optimal decision–making with minimal waste : Strategyproof redistribution of VCG payments . In AAMAS , pages 882–889 . ACM , 2001 .
[ 2 ] S . Ceppi , N . Gatti , and E . Gerding . Mechanism design for federated sponsored search auctions . In AAAI , 2011 .
[ 3 ] Y . Chen , A . Ghosh , R . McAfee , and D . Pennock .
Sharing online advertising revenue with consumers . WINE , pages 556–565 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Y . Narahari , D . Garg , R . Narayanam , and H . Prakash .
Game Theoretic Problems in Network Economics and Mechanism Design Solutions . Springer , February 2009 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France466
