Google Image Swirl
A Large Scale Content Based Image Visualization System
∗
Yushi Jing
Henry Rowley Jingbin Wang
David Tsai Chuck Rosenberg Michele Covell
Google Inc .
Mountain View , CA , USA
Figure 1 : Current query and content based Web image search engines present search results as a relevance ordered list .
ABSTRACT Web image retrieval systems , such as Google or Bing image search , present search results as a relevance ordered list . Although alternative browsing models ( eg results as clusters or hierarchies ) have been proposed in the past , it remains to be seen whether such models can be applied to large scale image search . This work presents Google Image Swirl , a large scale , publicly available , hierarchical image browsing system by automatically group the search results based on visual and semantic similarity . This paper describes methods used to build such system and shares the findings from 2 years worth of user feedback and usage statistics .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Clustering , Retrieval Models ; I410 [ Image Representation ]
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Current Web image search engines , such as Google or Bing Images , represent search results as a relevance ordered list , as shown in Figure 1 . Such list representation is efficient to compute , easy to interpret , and useful when the desired image is among the top search results . However , as text
∗Please direct all correspondence to jing@googlecom thank Stephen Holiday ’s help with the
We tem integration . http://cplccgatechedu/projects/VisualSynset/
A live demo can be sysfound at
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
Figure 2 : Presenting image search results as an exemplar tree . queries are often too simple to capture user intention , and meta data such as anchor text are too sparse to describe the images , the desired image ( or its near duplicates ) often receives low relevance scores and are positioned far down in the search results . In such cases , users have no choice but to sequentially browse through a potentially very large number of thumbnails before the desired image is found .
This work studies the feasibility of automatically organize the search results as a exemplar hierarchy , based on visual similarity , for large scale Web image search . An example of our browsing model for the query “ Eiffel Tower ” is shown in Figure 2 . The representations used are organization tools that people are familiar with : examples include the organization of files on a computer and the organization of books in a library . Compared with relevance ordered list , hierarchy based browsing model provide users with a global visual summary of the content , so users have more information to decide on where to go next given the currently selected document . Also , as a tree can be represented as a planar graph , one can efficiently compute a two dimensional visualization layout .
Although exemplar hierarchy has been proposed previously as an alternative browsing model to image search [ 8 , 2 , 1 , 7 , 5 ] , due to the limited scale of the proposed systems and related experiments , it remains to be seen whether such methods can be applied to large scale image search , and whether users would find such system useful . Afterall , due to the semantic gap between the visual representation of the image and the higher level semantics they are associated with , it is not clear one can automatically find obvious and generally agreed upon dimensions to split the image datasets . Also , due to users’ familiarity with the interface of popular Search engines , it is not clear whether typical users would find an alternative interface intuitively and useful .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France539 This work presents new evidence on the feasibility of hierarchybased Web image browsing systems by 1 ) developing a hierarchybased image browsing system supporting 400K common Web queries and making it publicly available [ 4 ] , and 2 ) collecting user feedback and analyzing how the system is being used within its two years life span .
2 . GOOGLE IMAGE SWIRL
Exemplar hierarchy for 400K Web queries We collected 400,000 popular queries used on Google image search . For each query , we collected the top 1000 image search results . For each image , we generated various features including color , edge , texture , local features , face signatures and etc . The features are quantitized and L1 Hash is then applied to make the sparse features dense , and KPCA with Histogram Intersection Kernel is used to further reduce dimensionality and place the data in a Euclidean feature space . Pairwise image similarity is computed by applying L2 distance to the features . We then perform clustering to partition the search results into hierarchical clusters , each associated with a representative , or exemplar , image . The hierarchical clusters for each query are pre computed . For more detail , see [ 6 ] .
Browsing interface After hierarchical clustering has been performed , the results of an image search query are organized in the structure of a tree . A number of options exist for how to present such a tree to the user . Beyond the typical layered diagram used to illustrate tree data structures , there are many options in the literature , including using hyperbolic geometry to better utilize space , and a variety of approaches based on treemaps . In this work , we used balloon tree layout in which each layer of the tree is arranged radially around its parent . When the user selects a branch of the tree to explore , it is rescaled to simulate the “ zoom in ” effect as shown in Figure 2 . The re arrangement is animated to allow the user to follow the change without getting lost .
3 . EXPERIMENTS AND CONCLUSIONS
We selected 1426 of the popular keywords as test queries . We used a combination of Web text and human raters to obtain a set of high level class labels for images in the search results . We first measure the correlation between visual distance ( derived from image features ) and semantic distance derived from class labels , with results shown in Figure 3 ( right ) . This result shows there is positive correlation between semantic and visual distance , which is consistent with recent similar experiments using data from ImageNet [ 3 ] .
Next , we evaluate the quality of clustering by testing the discriminative power of a linear SVM classifier trained on the top level clusters , similar to those used in ImageNet [ 3 ] . The goal is to test whether a given image should belong to the cluster or not . An exemplar hierarchy is computed for each query . We evaluate the classification results by AUC ( the area under the ROC curve ) . The results are shown in Figure 3 ( left ) . We can see the AUC scores of most clusters are above 0.95 , which shows the high visual compactness of the clusters . The hierarchy based image browsing system was made publicly available from 11/2009 to 19/2011 . and usage statistics is represented in Table 1 . Users also has the
Figure 3 : Are under the ROC curve
Usage statistics 1 ) Thumbnails viewed per query 2 ) Interaction per query 3 ) Landing page selections per query 4 ) Session length ( seconds ) mean 60.92 4.32 0.62 62.76 std 46.50 7.84 1.73
288.94
Table 1 : Usage statistics option to rate their browsing experience on a scale of 1 to 5 , and our system received an average of 4.6 ( 5 best ) .
In summary , we developed a large scale content based image visualization system based on exemplar hierarchy . Our experiment results showed positive correlation between semantic and visual distance , and we also received positive feedback from the users .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Cai , X . He , Z . Li , W Y Ma , and J R Wen . Hierarchical clustering of WWW image search results using visual , textual and link information . In Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM international conference on Multimedia , MULTIMEDIA ’04 , pages 952–959 , New York , NY , USA , 2004 . ACM .
[ 2 ] J . Chen , C . Bouman , and J . Dalton . Similarity pyramids for browsing and organization of large image databases . In Proc . of SPIE/IST Conf . on Human Vision and Electronic Imaging III , 1999 .
[ 3 ] J . Deng , W . Dong , R . Socher , L J Li , K . Li , and L . Fei Fei .
ImageNet : A Large Scale Hierarchical Image Database . In CVPR09 , 2009 .
[ 4 ] Y . Jing , H . Rowley , C . Rosenberg , J . Wang , and M . Covell .
Google image swirl , a large scale content based image browsing engine . In Demo at IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) , 2010 .
[ 5 ] S . Krishnamachari and M . Abdel Mottaleb . Image browsing using hierarchical clustering . Computers and Communications , IEEE Symposium on , 0:301 , 1999 .
[ 6 ] D . Tsai , Y . Jing , Y . Liu , H . A.Rowley , S . Ioffe , and
J . MRehg Large scale image annotation using visual synset . ICCV , 2011 .
[ 7 ] S . Wang , F . Jing , J . He , Q . Du , and L . Zhang . Igroup : presenting web image search results in semantic clusters . In Proc . SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems ( CHI ) , pages 587–596 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
[ 8 ] K P Yee , K . Swearingen , K . Li , and M . Hearst . Faceted metadata for image search and browsing . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems , CHI ’03 , pages 401–408 , New York , NY , USA , 2003 . ACM .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France540
