Audience Dynamics of Online Catch Up TV
Thomas Beauvisage , Jean Samuel Beuscart
Orange Labs
Issy les Moulineaux , France
{thomas.beauvisage , jeansamuelbeuscart}@orangecom
ABSTRACT This paper studies the demand for TV contents on online catch up platforms , in order to assess how catch up TV offers transform TV consumption . We build upon empirical data on French TV consumption in June 2011 : a daily monitoring of online audience on web catch up platforms , and live audience ratings of traditional three main results : 1 ) online broadcast TV . We provide consumption than off line audience , contradicting the hypothesis of a long tail effect of catch up TV ; 2 ) the temporality of replay TV consumption on the web is very close to the live broadcasting of the programs , thus softening rather than breaking the synchrony of traditional TV ; 3 ) detailed data on online consumption of news reveals two patterns of consumption ( “ alternative TV ritual ” vs . “ à la carte ” ) . is more concentrated
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences
General Terms Human Factors , Measurement .
Keywords Catch up TV , Online Audience , Long Tail , Temporal dynamics .
1 . INTRODUCTION In recent years , most of the French television networks have developed “ catch up ” services , on which viewers can watch TV programs on demand after they have been aired . For many media sociologists , the opportunity for viewers to watch “ the program they want , when they want ” deeply transforms the experience of television . This evolution should lead to “ the end of television ” understood as the simultaneous consumption of a same content , and to the disappearance of a collective practice that fueled the sense of community in society [ 2 ] . Nevertheless , the opportunity for viewers to watch any program at any time does not imply that they randomly scatter their attention among all the available contents . First , research works on content consumption on the web bring out a phenomenon of strong concentration of collective attention on a few items [ 1 ] , within a short time span [ 3 ] . Secondly , many social forces ( eg live events , marketing or imitation ) may lead viewers to watch the same TV programs . Therefore , whether on demand TV leads to the end of television as a collective practice or not is an empirical question , which we address in this paper . Our analysis focuses on two questions : how is viewer ’s attention distributed among contents , compared to traditional TV ? How is catch up content consumption distributed over time , and what is the lifespan of an on demand TV program ?
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
2 . DATASET We built an exhaustive dataset of catch up videos published on the Web in June 2011 by the 18 French DTT ( Digital Terrestrial Television ) TV channels . With ad hoc crawlers , we performed a daily scan of the specific ( tf1.fr , m6replay.fr , arte.tv… ) and generic ( wat.tv , dailymotion.fr ) streaming platforms . Thus , we gathered day to day information on the offer ( eg the available videos each day ) and the daily cumulative view count of each video . The collected dataset represents 11.682 videos published in June 2011 ; we monitored the audience of these videos until October 2011 ( 5 months ) . We completed this dataset with live TV audience ratings over the last week of June , from the French audience operator Médiamétrie . We matched the online audience of TV programs from the seven main French channels ( TF1 , F2 , F3 , Canal+ , F5 , M6 , Arte ) with the live ratings at the relevant level ( program or subset of program ) , in order to compare the views counts and the average number of live viewers . This dataset is composed of 957 matching entries between live and online audience data . We performed three post processing operations . First , when the information was not available from the Web sites , we calculated the publication date as the eve of the first observation . Secondly , for the 20 % of videos available online indefinitely , we observed that they don’t gather significant audience after 100 days online ; therefore , we considered the audience after 100 days as the “ final audience ” of the concerned videos . Finally , we set up a metacategorization of the programs . Mixing the different taxonomies of each channel , we classified all videos into 9 categories of content : news , sport , kids , reality TV , infotainment , game shows , entertainment , fiction and web only .
3 . RESULTS 3.1 Shortening the tail Our data shows that a catch up TV video cumulates in average 2.871 views , but this audience is not equally distributed : 30 % of the videos cumulate less than 100 views , while 20 % have more than 1500 When comparing online and live ratings , we observed that catch up consumption is more concentrated on top videos ( see Figure 1 ) .
Live ( avg . #viewers )
Catch up ( #views )
Figure 1 . Cumulative audience ( n=957 , ordered by rank ) .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France461 Live and catch up audience ratings appear to be globally correlated ( Pearson=399 ) Nevertheless , an in detailed crossing of the two ratings for each video , with 8 tiles splitting of the two variables , reveals three different situations ( see Figure 2 ) . e c n e i d u a e v i l f o e l i t 8 programs provided by TF1 , the first French TV network , between Sept . 2010 and Feb 2011 . The channel offers two ways to consume news on demand : full 30 minutes long programs ( 1.331 videos , 28.5 millions views ) , and short videos of the different stories ( 21.211 videos , 41.6 millions views ) . The consumption of the these two kinds of videos follows very different patterns ( see Figure 3 ) .
Full programs
Short videos
8 tile of catch up audience
Figure 2 . Crossing live and catch up audience
First , a wide diagonal zone ( 69 % ) where success online and offline are correlated ; secondly , a north west zone of “ online fails ” ( 16% ) , where good live ratings didn’t convert into catch up success ; finally a south east zone of “ benefit catch up effect ” ( 15 % ) where contents faced middle or low audience when the were broadcasted live , and took benefit of online diffusion . Crossing these three effects with channels and content categories shows that fictions and kids programs benefit the most of the catch up effect , as well as the culture dedicated channel , Arte , whereas games and weather news don’t . These elements tend to show that catch up TV reinforces the “ superstar effect ” , which benefits to already successful programs , but also to those with low temporal related value and interest .
3.2 Temporal synchronization In order to assess the level of synchronicity of on demand TV consumption , we measure , for each video , the part of the final audience made during its first days online . In this analysis , we focus on the 40 % of videos of our corpus available online more than 7 days ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 . Lifespan of videos available for more than 7 days
Genre
% of final audience after…
5 days 50 % 54 % 58 % 38 % 78 % 76 % 67 % 68 % 65 %
3 days 37 % 41 % 51 % 24 % 70 % 71 % 56 % 44 % 58 %
Entertainment Fiction Infotainment Kids Games shows News Sport Reality TV Total Most of the videos meet their audience during their first days online : 58 % after three days , 65 % after five days . This synchronization of online audience is variable according to the nature of the programs : news , game shows , reality TV and sports programs are highly synchronized with live broadcasting . Conversely , kids ( cartoons ) and entertainment programs have a longer lifespan .
7 days 58 % 65 % 63 % 38 % 84 % 79 % 74 % 78 % 69 %
3.3 Two ways of watching the news To these patterns of consumption , we concentrate on the case of news programs . We focus on the news investigate further
Figure 3 . Cumulative audience of news videos ( order by rank ) The audience of complete news programs is very steady and homogeneous : every day , videos of the full news programs get roughly the same audience . Conversely , the consumption of short videos is much more concentrated : 20 % of the videos account for 60 % of the audience . The examination of the most successful short videos suggests that viewers favor stories dealing with entertainment and practical information , and neglect those dealing with international and national politics . When looking at the temporal patterns , we observe that the audience of the full programs is very concentrated in time : 70 % of the views occur during the first day , 86 % during the first two days . We may consider this pattern of consumption as an extension of the TV ritual : the same amount of viewers watch the program every day , soon after it has been aired . The temporal pattern of the audience of short videos is more diverse : though most of the views occurs in the first days , some videos are consumed over a longer time span , especially stories centered on places or people . 4 . DISCUSSION Our data shows that the consumption of on demand TV programs is concentrated and synchronized , thus weakening the hypothesis of the “ end of television ” as discussed in [ 2 ] . The live diffusion of the programs continues to set the viewer ’s agenda , allowing a sense of community among viewers , reinforced by voting and commenting features of web platforms . Our future works should first investigate to what extent these results are specific to the French broadcasting supply and can be extended to other countries . We should also examine how the increasing use of social media may contribute to the burstiness of the audiences .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Huberman B . , Wu F . 2007 . Novelty and Collective
Attention . Proceeding of the National Academy of Science ( USA ) , vol . 105 .
[ 2 ] Katz E . , 2009 . The End of Television ? . In Katz E . , Scannel
P . , The End of Television , The Annals of the Amercian Academy for Political and Social Sciences ( 625 ) .
[ 3 ] Leskovec J . , Backstrom L , Kleinberg J . 2009 . Meme tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle . In Proceeding of the 15th ACM SIGKDD Internation Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , ACM , New York .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France462
