Regional Subgraph Discovery in Social Networks
Cheng Te Li1 , Man Kwan Shan2 , Shou De Lin1
1 Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia , National Taiwan University , Taipei , Taiwan
2 Department of Computer Science , National Chengchi University , Taipei , Taiwan
{d98944005 , sdlin}@csientuedutw , mkshan@csnccuedutw
ABSTRACT This paper solves a region based subgraph discovery problem . We are given a social network and some sample nodes which is supposed to belong to a specific region , and the goal is to obtain a subgraph that contains the sampled nodes with other nodes in the same region . Such regional subgraph discovery can benefit region based applications , including scholar search , friend suggestion , and viral marketing . To deal with this problem , we assume there is a hidden backbone connecting the query nodes directly or indirectly in their region . The idea is that individuals belonging to the same region tend to share similar interests and cultures . By modeling such fact on edge weights , we search the graph to extract the regional backbone with respect to the query nodes . Then we can expand the backbone to derive the regional network . Experiments on a DBLP co authorship network show the proposed method can effectively discover the regional subgraph with high precision scores . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Information Filtering . Keywords Regional subgraph , information backbone , social networks . 1 . INTRODUCTION Social network services ( eg Facebook , Twitter ) have become the major platforms where people can share ideas , participate activities , and communicate with each other . These services allow people to maintain their social relations with others from different countries and regions . That says , for people living in a certain region , their personal social circles could be interwoven with others around the world . Another evidential example for this regionwide social interweaving occurs in the academic collaboration network . Researchers can either work with people in the same country through the colleague colleague or supervisor supervisee relations . Though there are many successful proposals on community detection in social networks ( see the review in [ 3] ) , all of them consider only the structure ( ie , tightly intra connected and loosely inter connected ) to find social groups . The regional information ( eg country ) of people is often neglected . We think the regional prospective can trigger some potential applications : ( a ) suggesting friends based on regional connections . ( b ) Identifying scholars in the same region based on certain search criteria ( c ) In viral marketing , promoting products to customers within the same region . In this paper , we aim at mining the regional subgraph for some user interested individuals from a raw social network . The expected regional network is a subgraph of the original social network and connects all user specified query nodes that belong to a single region . More importantly , the regional network is expected to include other nodes and links that belong to the same region . Besides , we assume that the regional information ( eg name , affiliation , and region ) is not provided for the discovery task due to privacy issues . In this work we utilize the DBLP co authorship
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 . network for regional subgraph discovery , in which each node is an author associated with some keywords , and each edge is constructed if two authors had ever collaborated . The personal information , including country and affiliation , is used as the ground truth to evaluate our method . We believe such task is a challenging task because ( a ) no regional knowledge is provided as prior , ( b ) people in the social network are highly interwoven among different regions , and ( c ) people in the same region are not necessary directly connected . Problem Statement . ( Regional Subgraph Discovery ) . Given ( a ) a social network G=(V,E ) , where each node is associated with a set of keyword labels L , ( b ) a set of query nodes Q belonging to a certain region r , ( c ) a filtering threshold f , and ( d ) a picking threshold p , we aim to mine a subgraph H=(VH,EH ) as the desired result such that ( 1 ) H connects all query nodes , ( 2 ) in VH the percentage of nodes belong to region r is as close to 100 % as possible , and ( 3 ) in EH the number of edges whose both end nodes belong to region r is as many as possible . We mine the regional subgraph by assuming the potential regional backbone with respect to the query nodes . The basic idea is there is a hidden backbone for nodes in a region and the query nodes are connected directly or indirectly by the backbone . If we can effectively find the regional backbone connecting the query nodes , it will enhance the discovery of the regional network . By assuming that those belonging to the same region tend to share similar interests and cultures , and thus we model the local interactions between nodes from three aspects of region meanings : frequency , structure , and semantic , on edge weights in the raw social network . Then we develop a Backbone Steiner algorithm to find the regional backbone . In the end , using some heuristics , we expand the regional backbone to obtain the regional subgraph with respect to the query nodes . Related Works . Existing works about network discovery focus on extracting or constructing the social network by taking the Web as corpus . Y . Matsuo et al . [ 3 ] propose a network extraction engine by investigating co occurrence contexts from Google . J . Tang et al . [ 5 ] use probabilistic inference methods to retrieve the academic network from online digital libraries . M . Choudhury et al . [ 1 ] explore the effects of different relevance thresholds on inferring social networks . Instead of extracting the entire network , we retrieve the sub network of a region according to query nodes . To our knowledge , we are the first to tackle such regional subgraph mining in a social network . 2 . THE PROPOSED METHOD Our method consists of three parts : ( 1 ) interaction modeling , ( 2 ) the Backbone Steiner algorithm , and ( 3 ) heuristic expansion . Interaction Modeling . Considering the physical meanings of regions , we aim to capture such regional clues from the interactions between individuals and model such clue as edge weights in the raw social network . We investigate three kinds of ideas about regions . The first is frequency : people belonging to the same region tend to interact frequently with each other than ones of different regions . In our co authorship data , we use the number of
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France563 collaborations between authors as their edge weight . The second is structure : those in the same region tend to know each other and form communities . Thus , we compute the number of common friends of two authors as the edge weight . The third one is semantic : people belonging to the same region usually experience similar cultures or share similar interests in the network . We use the set of keyword labels L of each author to compute the semantic weight . The weight between author u and v is determined by semanticWeight(u , v ) = | Lu ∩ Lv | / min{ | Lu | , | Lv | } .
Backbone Steiner Algorithm . Given the weighted social graph G=(V,E ) and the set of query nodes Q of region r , we are going to find the corresponding regional backbone . Our method , called Backbone Steiner algorithm , consists of three phases . ( 1 ) Querybased expansion : we search the graph from nodes in Q and find the best expanded tree TQ=(VT,ET ) from the query nodes , where VT=Q∪Q’ ( Q’ is the set of expanded nodes ) . ( 2 ) Proximity based processing : by computing the topological proximities from nodes in VT , we rule out irrelevant nodes to reduce the search space , and pick the most relevant ones as seed set S . ( 3 ) Backbone formation : based on TQ and the derived seed set S , we greedily compose the regional backbone TB=(VB,EB ) , which is a subgraph of G . For phase (a ) , we employ the Steiner Tree algorithm [ 4 ] to find the best expanded tree TQ . Recall the original Steiner Tree problem is to search out the minimum cost tree in the input graph containing all required nodes and some intermediate nodes . For phase (b ) , we take advantage of the Random Walk with Restart [ 6 ] to compute the proximity values . We also utilize the filtering threshold f for filtering and use the picking threshold p to pick the seed set S . For phase (c ) , we modify the Steiner Tree method and take nodes in S as the required ones to form the backbone TB that is extended from the best expanded tree TQ . The Backbone Steiner algorithm is shown in the following . Heuristic Expansion . We compose the regional subgraph by performing the Breadth First Search ( BFS ) expansion from the regional backbone TB . Edge weights are used to determine whether to expand or not . If weight(u,v ) is larger than  , where  is the expansion threshold , the expansion search proceeds . We also use the BFS level ( set to 2 in this paper ) to control its termination . Note the choice of calculation method for edge weights lead to different quality of discovered regional subgraph . Also note that we set  to be 0.75 in the experiment after tuning . Algorithm 1 . Backbone Steiner Algorithm . Input : the social network G = ( V , E , W ) ; the query set Q ; the filtering threshold f ; the picking threshold p . Output : the backbone TB = ( VB , EB ) . 1 : 2 : 3 : 4 : 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : 9 : 10 : 11 : 12 : 3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We evaluate the effectiveness of our method by examining if the nodes and edges in the discovered regional subgraph truly belong to the region of the queries . We compile a DBLP co authorship network , which contains 36,332 nodes and 116,673 edges from 21
TQ = ( VT , ET , WT ) ← SteinerTree(G , Q ) . // query expansion proximity({(v|vG\VT)} ) ← RandomWalkRestart(G , VT ) . Sort proximity({(v|vG\VT)} ) in descending order . G ← G \ {v | vG\VT and proximity(v ) below last f percentage} . S ← ψ . // the seed set for backbone formation . S ← S ∪{v | vG\VT and proximity(v ) in top p percentage} . TB = ( VB , EB ) ← TQ . // initialize backbone as best expanded tree while ( S \ VB ) ≠ψdo // backbone formation by modified Steiner
TB ← TB ∪ {weightedShortestPath ( v* , s*)} . proximity(s ) . s* ← argmax v* ← argmax if weightedShortestPath(v* , s* ) ≠ψ then
BVSs \ BVv  weightedShortestDist(v , s* ) in G . primer conferences : {KDD , ICDM , SDM , PAKDD , PKDD , SIGIR , WWW , CIKM , ACL , VLDB , ICDE , SIGMOD , PODS , EDBT , ICML , ECML , AAAI , IJCAI , MM , ICME , MMM} . The keyword labels associated with each author are the textual terms occurring in at least three paper titles that he/she ever participated . In the experiment , we set the region of query nodes is Taiwan . The ground truth ( ie , authors in Taiwan region ) is labeled by human . There are totally 1,437 authors and 2,206 co authorship edges among them . We randomly generate 200 sets of query nodes , where each set contain five Taiwan authors . We compute the average precision and average recall over such query sets : if the discovered regional subgraph contains nodes/edges in the ground truth , the number of hits will increase . The evaluation plan is to present the performance of different stages of our method ( ie , best expanded tree , backbone , and regional network ) under diverse interaction models ( ie , frequency , structure , and semantic ) , where the filtering threshold f is set to be 0.9 and the picking threshold p is set to be 0.0075 ( about 170 nodes ) . The results are shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2 . We find the semantic model outperforms the other two , which implies that the knowledge of interests and cultures really help capture the concept of region . We think some noise is introduced in the heuristic expansion stage that hurts the performance .
Figure 1 . Average precision . Figure 2 . Average Recall .
4 . CONCLUSION This work proposes and solves the problem of regional subgraph discovery in a social network . The central idea of our method is to find the backbone with respect to the query nodes of a certain region . We study the effects of different interaction models on the performance . Experimental results show our backbone based method with semantic weighting is able to find the regional network with highest precision score . Ongoing work is to investigate what if the query nodes belong to different regions and to identify those individuals shifting from one region to another ( eg students study abroad or cross region cooperation ) considering the temporal factor . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This work was supported by National Science Council , National Taiwan University , and Intel Corporation under Grants : NSC 1002911 I 002 001 , and 10R70501 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] MD Choudhury , WA Mason , JM Hofman , and DJ Watts . Infer ring Relevant Social Networks from Interpersonal Communication . In WWW 2010 .
[ 2 ] J . Leskovec , K . Lang , and M . Mahoney . Empirical Comparison of
Algorithms for Network Community Detection . In WWW 2010 . [ 3 ] Y . Matsuo , J . Mori , M . Hamasaki , K . Ishida , T . Nishimura , H .
Takeda , K . Hasida , and M . Ishizuka . POLYPHONET : an Advanced Social Network Extraction System from the Web . In WWW 2006 .
[ 4 ] H . Takahashi and A . Matsuyama . An Approximate Solution for the
Steiner Problem in Graphs . Mathematica Japonica 1980 .
[ 5 ] J . Tang , J . Zhang , L . Yao , J . Li , L . Zhang , and Z . Su . ArnetMiner :
Extraction and Mining of Academic Social Networks . In KDD 2008 . [ 6 ] H . Tong , C . Faloutsos , and J . Y . Pan . Fast Random Walk with Restart and Its Applications . In ICDM 2006 .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France564
