Textual and Contextual Patterns for Sentiment Analysis over Microblogs
Fotis Aisopos$ , George Papadakis$,3 , Konstantinos Tserpes$ , Theodora Varvarigou$
$ ICCS , National Technical University of Athens , Greece {fotais , gpapadis , tserpes , dora}@mailntuagr
3 L3S Research Center , Germany papadakis@L3S.de
ABSTRACT Microblog content poses serious challenges to the applicability of sentiment analysis , due to its inherent characteristics . We introduce a novel method relying on content based and context based features , guaranteeing high effectiveness and robustness in the settings we are considering . The evaluation of our methods over a large Twitter data set indicates significant improvements over the traditional techniques . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Information filtering ; I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing — Text analysis General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords Sentiment Analysis , N gram Graphs , Social Context , Social Media 1 .
INTRODUCTION
The inherent characteristics of the text that is shared in social media infuse challenges in the extraction of sentimentexpressive patterns [ 4 , 5 , 6 ] that call for a different approach than those commonly followed by existing Sentiment Analysis ( SA ) systems . To this end , they employ either discriminative ( series of ) words [ 1 ] or dictionaries that assess the meaning and the lexical category of specific words and phrases ( eg SentiWordNet1 ) . Such characteristics are sparsity ( short free form text ) , neologisms[2],noise ( misspelled text ) and multilinguality . We introduce a novel approach based on two complementary sources of evidence , which are language neutral and robust to noise : a content based approach using the n gram graphs document representation model and a context based approach relying on social graph connections to capture the mood expressed in the social context of each message . We apply our approach in a large Twitter dataset and compare between these two sources of evidence and analytically examine how they perform in conjunction . We focus on effectiveness and efficiency , experimenting on multiple classification algorithms and configurations , aiming at the lower possible processing time . 1http://sentiwordnetisticnrit
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2012 Companion , April 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France . ACM 978 1 4503 1230 1/12/04 .
2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this work , we exclusively focus on document level SA in the context of microblog posts , detecting the sentiment ” polarity ” of individual Twitter messages ( tweets ) . This can be categorized into two distinct problems : • Binary Polarity Classification : Classify a document col lection into two binary polarization classes PB = {negative , positive} .
• General Polarity Classification : Classify a document col lection into three polarization classes PG = {negative , neutral , positive} .
3 . APPROACH 3.1 Content based Models
The alternative representation models used in the contentbased approach , to extract the polarity features in each document ( tweet ) are the following : • Term Vector Model : this model aggregates the set of distinct words contained in a document to represent as a vector of frequencies .
• Punctuation Model : this model takes into account the punctuation and character based features that are contained in a document such as : ( i ) number of special characters , ( ii ) number of “ ! ” , ( iii ) number of quotes , ( iv ) number of “ ? ” , ( v ) number of capitalized tokens , ( vi ) length in characters .
• Character N grams Model : this model comprises all substrings of length n in a document . This model constructs a vector providing the n gram frequencies .
• Character N gram Graphs Model : this model forms a graph whose nodes correspond to distinct n grams , while its edges are weighted proportionally to the average distance in terms of n grams between the adjacent nodes .
311 Character N Gram Graphs Model In the N gram Graphs model , each polarity class is modeled by a single graph , uniformly aggregating the documents comprising it . After merging all individual document graphs into the class graph , its edges encapsulate the most characteristic patterns contained in the class’ content , such as recurring and neighboring character sequences , special characters , and digits .
To estimate the similarity between a new document ( ie , tweet ) graph Gti and a class graph GTp , we employ one of the established n gram graph similarity metrics [ 3 ] : ( i ) Containment Similarity ( CS ) , which expresses the proportion of edges of a small graph Gti that are shared with graph GTp .
WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France453 Problem 1
Problem 2
4 Gram Discr . Graphs Graphs Punct . Polarity Polarity Context Graphs Graphs Punct . Polarity Polarity Context NB 91.51 % 96.36 % 56.64 % 53.40 % 74.61 % 51.05 % 75.82 % 93.43 % 44.69 % 37.40 % 60.02 % 34.33 % C4.5 98.76 % 97.17 % 60.98 % 80.08 % 72.89 % 60.44 % 96.85 % 94.98 % 46.00 % 66.55 % 61.47 % 46.38 % SVM 86.10 % 84.57 % 50.12 % 73.19 % 72.89 % 56.93 % 79.18 % 78.82 % 39.02 % 52.86 % 57.27 % 36.68 % Table 1 : Accuracy of all combinations between models and classification algorithms over both polarity problems .
Social 4 Gram Discr .
Discr .
Discr .
Social
Social Context Model
322 To reduce the feature extraction cost of the above model , we also consider an alternative set of context based features that can be directly derived from a user ’s account and the characteristics of her messages . These features are the number of : Author ’s Tweets , Author ’s Followees , Author ’s Reciprocal Friends , Author ’s Reciprocal Friends , Topics , Mentions , URLs . These features rely on the same evidence with the Polarity Ratio model , but do not take into account the aggregate polarity of the underlying instances . 4 . EVALUATION
Dataset . To examine the performance of our models , we conducted a thorough experimental study on a largescale data set that was employed in [ 7 ] . To measure the effectiveness of the classification models , we considered the established metric of classification accuracy α .
Evaluation Method . To evaluate the performance of our models , we employ the 10 fold cross validation approach . For the comparative analysis of the document representation models , we employed the Naive Bayes Multinomial ( NBM ) and the Support Vector Machines ( SVM ) . For the rest of the models , we employed : Naive Bayes ( NB ) , C4.5 and the SVM . For the functionality of the n gram graphs , we employed the open source library of JInsect2 . For the implementation of the classification algorithms , we used the Weka open source library3 .
Evaluation Results . Table 1 summarizes all experimental results over both polarity classification problems : On the whole , the four gram graphs achieve the highest accuracy across all representation models and classification algorithms especially after discretizing their values ( as explained in Section 311 ) This means that they are more suitable for tackling the inherent characteristics of microblog content . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work has been partly funded by the FP7 EU Project
SocIoS ( Contract No . 257774 ) . 6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] D . Davidov , O . Tsur , and A . Rappoport . Enhanced sentiment learning using twitter hashtags and smileys . In COLING , 2010 .
[ 2 ] J . Eisenstein , B . O’Connor , N . A . Smith , and E . P . Xing . A latent variable model for geographic lexical variation . In EMNLP , 2010 .
[ 3 ] G . Giannakopoulos , V . Karkaletsis , G . A . Vouros , and
P . Stamatopoulos . Summarization system evaluation revisited : N gram graphs . TSLP , 5(3 ) , 2008 .
[ 4 ] L . Jiang , M . Yu , M . Zhou , X . Liu , and T . Zhao .
Target dependent Twitter sentiment classification . In COLING , 2011 .
[ 5 ] B . O’Connor , R . Balasubramanyan , B . R . Routledge , and N . A .
Smith . From tweets to polls : Linking text sentiment to public opinion time series . In ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 6 ] A . Tumasjan , T . O . Sprenger , P . G . Sandner , and I . M . Welpe .
Predicting elections with twitter : What 140 characters reveal about political sentiment . In ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 7 ] J . Yang and J . Leskovec . Patterns of temporal variation in online media . In WSDM , pages 177–186 , 2011 .
2http://sourceforge.net/projects/jinsect 3http://wwwcswaikatoacnz/ml/weka
Figure 1 : Deriving the feature vector from the ngram graphs model for General Polarity Classification Problem .
( ii ) Value Similarity ( VS ) , which indicates how many of the edges contained in graph Gti are shared with graph GTp , considering also their weights . ( iii ) Normalized Value Similarity ( NVS ) , which decouples value similarity from the effect of the largest graph ’s size .
In order to enhance the classification efficiency of the ngram graphs model , we propose an intuitive method for discretizing its similarity values , employing pair wise comparisons between the values of the same metric for different polarity classes , to produce a nominal label .
Figure 1 depicts the described process for estimating polarity between graph Gti and the three class graphs ( Gneg , Gpos , Gneu ) in the General Polarity Classification Problem . 3.2 Context based Models
The 2 representation models for the context based approach , aim at quantifying the effect of social context , along with their features . 321 Social Polarity Model The aggregate sentiment of a set of tweets is determined by the dominant polarity class : if the positive messages significantly outnumber the negative ones , the overall sentiment is considered positive and vice versa . We consider the following context based features : • Author Polarity Ratio : the aggregate polarity of all mes sages posted by the same author
• Author ’s Followees Polarity Ratio : the aggregate senti ment of all messages posted by the author ’s followees
• Author ’s Reciprocal Friends Polarity Ratio : the aggregate sentiment of the tweets posted by the author ’s reciprocal friends
• Topic(s ) Polarity Ratio : overall sentiment of all tweets that pertain to the same topic
• Mention(s ) Polarity Ratio : the overall sentiment of all tweets that mention the same user
• URL(s ) Polarity Ratio : aggregate polarity of all tweets with the same URL
GGnegGneuGposGtinegneuposGraphs ComparisonGraphs ComparisonGraphs Comparison(CSneg, NVSneg, Vsneg,  CSneu, NVSneu, VSneu,  CSpos, NVSpos, VSpos)WWW 2012 – Poster PresentationApril 16–20 , 2012 , Lyon , France454
