From : AAAI Technical Report WS 94 03 . Compilation copyright © 1994 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
The , Interestingness of Deviations
Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro
Christopher
J . Matheus
GTE Laboratories
Incorporated
40 Sylvan Rd . , Waltham MA 02254 gps~gte.com , matheus~gte.com
Abstract
One of the moet promising areas in Knowledge Discovery in Databases is the automatic analysis of changes and deviations . Several systems have recently been developed for this task . Suc~ of these systems hinges on their ability to identify s few important and relevant deviations among the multitude of potentially interesting events:~ In this paper we argue that related deviations should be grouped togetherin a finding and that the interestingness of a finding is the estimated benefit from a poesible ~tion connected to it . We discuss methods for determining the estimated benefit from the impact of the deviations and the success probability of an action . Our analysis is done in the context of the Key Findings Reporter ( KEFIIt ) , a system for discovering and explaining ~key findings" in large relational databases , currently being applied to the analysis of healthcare information .
Keywords : knowledge discovery , databases , interestingness , deviations , healthcare
1
Introduction
Many companies sad organizations maintain large databases to record transactional events such as sales , expenditures , inventory , etc . The timely analysis of key patterns that arise in these databases is highly desirable and may often provide competitive advantage . Asthe databases grow larger sad competition increases , manual methods of analysis become too costly and time consuming to be effective . This problem has led to the development of automated systems for data analysis and report generation , with the most notable examples coming in the area of supermarket scanner data cf Spotlight [ Anand sad Kahn , 1992 ] and CoverStory [ Schmitz et al . , 1990 ] . to the problem of healthcare information analysis and reporting
KEFIR is a discovery system for data analysis and report generation from relational databases ; its applic~tion is described in [ Matheus e| al . , 1994 ] . This system embodies a generic approach based on the discovery technique of deviation detection [ Matheus et al . , 1993 ] for uncovering ~ksy findings," and dependency networks for explaining the causes of these findings . The results are compiled into a written report along with recommendations for actions to be taken in response to certain types of findings .
Central to KEFIR ’s methodology is its ~bility to rank deviations according to some measure of Iuterestingness refers to the degree to which a discovered pattern is of interest "interestingness." to the user of the system and is driven by factors such as novelty , utility , relevance , and statistical significance ( see [ Frawley et al . , 1991] ) . Aa automated discovery system requires specific interestingness factors which it can measure~ as well as a way of combining these factors into a metric that accurately reflects how domain experts judge key patterns . This is a difficult problem . The
KDD 94
AAM 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 25 primary purpose of this paper is to discuss our experience from the development of KEFIR and to outline its current approach to measuring the interestingness of discovered patterns . type of pattern
In KEFIR , the central is a deviation between an observed value of a measure and a reference value , eg a previous or a normative value , We will argue that to properly judge the interestingness of a deviation , one should examine deviations between an observed value and all relevant reference values , that is all previous values , and all relevant normative values . We call such a set of deviations a finding . We will also argue that a good measure of the interestingness of a finding is the estimated benefit that could be realized by taking a specific action in response . In an earlier Work [ Piatetsky Shapiro~ 1991]we examined various mathematical and statistical factors for interestingness of rules . Here , we "will argue that such objective factors are insufficient and that domain specific , knowledge based factors also have to be included .
To set the stage for our discussion on interestingness , we start with a concrete example of data analysis of healthcaxe information . We then outline how KEFIR is designed to perform this type of task in a generic manner . ¯With this background,~’ We will explore how interestingness is measured and used in KEFIR , and offer ideas for future work in this area .
2
Healthcare
Example in healthcare costs and the recent emphasis on healthcare timely information has become¯an issue of great importance . Large corporations ,
With the rapid rise analysis of healthcare hospitals , health maintenance organizations , and insurance companies all require expert analysis of their data an endeavor .that is both time consuming and very expensive . The coming healthcare to increase dataanalysis requirements . ’~ All this presents a real opportunity for reform is likely automating data analysis and reporting systems , especially because the methods currently employed by healthcare analysts lend themselves well to automation . reform ,
Current approaches to healthcare data analysis rely on a set of relatively standard measuch as cost , price , usage ,
( eg averagehospStalpaymonl:sporcapil:a , sures t~r indicators which assess various aspects of healthcare , and quality These measuresare usually aggregate values taken over populations of ¢esaroansec~$onral:e ) is its employees and their depenindividuals . For a corporation , the primary population of interest dents . Various sub populations of this group are ¯also of interest to the company , such as separate business units , national regions , union vs . non union employees , etc . From the healthcare side , subpopulations of interest axe defined in terms of standard categories , such as Inpatient/Outpatient , Inpatient Admission Type ( medical , surgical , noetic Related Group ( DItG ) . etc. ) , Major Diagnostic Category ( MDC ) , and Diag admissionra’ce_per_lOOOpeople ,
A fundamental question in healthcare analysis is : For a given population , how do the standard measures compare to previous values and to normative or expected values ? If a measure for the ¯ population has changed dramatically or deviates significantly from the norm , then this is a poteninteresting deviation . The actual Interestingness depends on whether there are actions that ¯ tially can be taken in response and on the benefits that might result . For example , a $1,000,000 increase in payments due to anincrease in the number of regular pregnancies is much less important than a $200,000 increase in payments due to premature deliveries , for which there are well established intervention strategies that can saves significant part of the cost and improve the quality of care . Thus , the interestingness of a deviation is related to the estimated benefit achievable through available actions , The estimated benefit depends on several factors , including the impact on the bottom line , the difference from the norm , and the success probability of the suggested action . the tread of the deviation ,
Page 26
AAM 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 findings ,
In addition to uncovering the significant the analyst needs to explain them to the extent possible given the data . The standard procedure for explaining a high level finding is to "drill down" into the data . In this the cause of a finding is traced to either other significant deviations in smaller sub populations , or to Other measures that drive the value of the finding ’s measure . The bealthcare expert performs this drill down in a top down fashion , starting with the entire population and drilling down into smaller and smaller populations until no more significant events are found . The key findings and their explanations are then compiled into a summary report along with recommendations for courses of action . technique ,
3
The KEFIR System l~FIlt models the analytic process employed by the expert data analyst . The driving premise of the system is that many of the most interesting patterns to be found in transactional databases can be described as deviations , A deviation , in our use of the term , is a difference between an observed ~alue Vo and a reference value VR . In our system , the observed value is taken from the most current snapshot of the healthcare database . Comparing the observed value to one from the previous time period generates a deviation over time , A normative deviation results from a comparison to the normative value for the measure . We note that a normative value may be taken from a normative database or it could be computed from a model ( see the Appendix for more detail ) .
Deviations are powerful because they pr0vide a simple way of identifying in the data . We have studied many kn0wledge discovery algorithms with potential vast numbers of significant patterns pattern is truly interesting way to identify they are by definition interesting is the foCus of the latter half of this paper . from data , but mc~st of these are unable to determine when a to the.~ser [ Matheus et ~ ai , 1993 ] . With deviations we have a simple from what we expect , interesting at least to some degree . Measuring the degree to which they are things that differ from our expectations since they differ interesting patterns for identifying
In ~ldition to detecting and ordering deviations , KEFIR also attempts to provide explanations for the most interesting deviations , and it uses a rule base to generate recommendations for courses of action to respond to specific types of findings ( these aspects are described more fully in [ Matheus et al . , 1994] ) . The overall design and process flow of the system is depicted in Figure 1 .
Deviation Detection : The deviation space that KEFIR explores is completely specified by predefined measures and by predefined categories used to create subsets of data . We refer to a these subsets as sectors , with the "top sector" representing the entire population covered by the data . KEFIR begins its analysis by evaluating the measures relevant to the top sector . New sectors are then created for each of the partitions defined by all relevant categories , and deviations are calculated for each measure in each of these new sectors . This drill down into smaller and smaller populations continues recursively until a pre specified depth is reached or the size of a population becomes inconsequential . The result of this process is several hundred to Several thousand deviations compiled into a set of findings . the trend and normative deviations of all
Evaluation and Ordering." After the findings are calculated , for selecting calculating the relative section 4 . they are ordered in preparation the key findings to include in the final report . This ranking requires a metric for interestingneSs of a finding . The details of this metric are described in
Explanation : I~FIR generates explanations for its key findings whenever possible . An explanation for a givei~ finding can come from
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 27
¯ Database
Figure 1 : Overall design and process flow within KEFIR . s the decomposition of a measure by a pre defined can use toxal,payments total.payments I
= paymentspercase is mainly due to the increase formula . For example , the to infer the system increase in
¯ cases that in payments_per_case , s from the breakdown of a sector into sub sectors . For example , from the relationship
Admissions Medical U Surgical U Behavioral U Maternity the system might infer that the increase in total.payments is mainly due to the increase in payments for Surgical admissions .
KEFIR explains a key finding by first evaluating all other findings affecting it through formulas influence and attempts to explain findings is a sequence of explanations that chain together a set of interesting
Or breakdowns . It then selects it in thesame manner . This recursive process continues until there are no more interesting to explain , The final result findings . the one finding with the greatest
Recommendation : The main purpose for reporting what to do to improve the situation . What the user often wants is a set of actions be performed in response to the discovered findings . by a finding is sufficient for handling the problem . KEFIR uses a set of rules to identify recommended actions . is to help the user decide that can the information provided for the system to automatically suggest an appropriate course of action these situations and to generate the key findings
In many cases ,
Report Generation : The final output from KEFIR is a written report of the key findings , explanations , plate matching , with randomized variations information relevant to the findings also appears in the report in the form of tables , bar charts , and their and recommendations . Sentences and paragraphs are generated using simple temto produce more natural sounding text . Descriptive
Page 28
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 pie charts . The results are produced as a collection of HTML ( hypertext markup language ) and GIF ( graphic interchange file ) such as NCSA ’s Mosaic . for viewing by local or remote WWW
( world wide web ) clients files
Implementation : KEFIR is written data through an SQL interface are currently implementation of I~FIB uses the core KEFIE system augmented w|th healthcaxe domain knowledge in the form of structures running the system On a Sparcstation 10 with an Informix DBMS . The healthcare representing the measures , categories , sectors , and recommendations . to ensure compatibility with a wide range of database servers . We in tcl [ Ousterhout , 1990 ] and C/C++ . The system accesses
4 Analysis of Interestingness
An approzimate measure of the right thing is better than the exact measure of the torong thing
A critical feature of the KEFIR system is its ability to accurately order findings according to their In this section we consider various aspects of judging interestingness degree of "interestingness." and describe the approaches used in KEFIR , as well as those envisioned for future systems . fits
Our view of interestingness function , as defined , eg by [ DeGroot , 1970 ] . However , since the potential decisions examined by KEFIR are those of a large company , the KEFIRutility function can be considered to be simply equal to the estimated savings ( possibly adjusted by the quality of care multiplier ) , and various tools of utility theory developed for non linear subjective utility are not necessary . view of an optimal utility into a statistician ’s
In our discussion , we use D to denote database instances and S to denote sectors . A measure , denoted M(S , D ) ( or simply M ) is a function that returns a value when applied to a particular sector S and a database instance D . Although measures discussed here are single valued , multivalued measures are also possible . Not all measures are applicable to all sectors . We also assume , unless rioted otherwise , that the desired direction for each measure ( from the perspective of benefit to the user ) is down , as it is for example in the measure payments_per_case .
First , we will examine the interestingness of a single deviation and then show why it is important to combine temporal and normative deviations .
4.1
Impact of a Deviation
In retail sales analysis ,
In manufacturing , is to identify areas for reducing cost and imThe major goal in healthcare information analysis the goal would be to identify areas where sales can be proving quality . increased . the goalmight be to reduce defective output . The common ground here is identifying deviations which can serve as a basis for useful actions . When dealing with financial data , usefulness can be naturally measured in monetary terms ( eg potential savings or potential earnings ) . Other measures , such as quality of care or defect rates , can also be translated to financial terms ( although difficult , it is being done on a daily basis by the experts in these areas ) . From this perspective , an important aspect of the interestingness of a deviation is its impact on the bottom line . For example , if paymenl;e.per_caee for Surgical admissions in the West Region increased from $14,818 to $23,187 between 1992 and 1993 , how can we determine the impact of this change on the bottom line ? First , we need to select a measure M0 that represents the bottom line . This measure should be such that any other measure Mi can be related to Mo via some function fl of Mi , ie M0 = fi(Mi , D ) . Note that fi would generally be a function of other measures and also of the database instance . For the healthcare application of KEFIR , M0 is the total GTE healthcare
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 29 payments , denoted totalpayments The impact should be measured with respect top level sector So , Usually , So is just the overall population covered by the health plan , ie GTE employees and their dependents . However , a regional manager may set So to the population specific region . to the overall in a
We are now ready to give.a formal definition to our notion of impact . Definition 1 The impact of the deviation of measure Mi in sector S relative DR and an observation ( current)database Do , denoted impact( Mi , S , Do , DR[IMo , So ) , is the difference between to a reference database
¯ the value Mo would have if only the value of Mi for sector S was changed to its observation value M~(S , Do ) , while all other values would be as in DR , and
¯ Me(So , DR ) , the reference value of Me in sector So .
The formal equation for impact is thus : impact( Mi , S , Do , DRIIMo , So ) = fi( M,( S , Do ) , DR ) Mo(So , DR
When the values of Mo and So are obvious they will be omitted .
To give a specific example , let D93 be Do , the current database , D9~ be DR , the refer ence database , S , urg be the surgical admissions sector , and Sother be the remaining sector where So S,,,rg U So , he , . Recall that f(paymenl:s_per_case , D ) then becomes total_payments = payments_per_case
, cases . The function total.payments(S0 ,
D ) = payments_per_case(Sse~g , D ) × cases(Ssurg , D ) + tot al payment S(Sot her , D )
We can calculate the impact from the change in payments.per_case as follows : impict(payments.per_case , Ssurg , D93 , D92 )
= payments_p4)r_case(Ssurg ,
D93 ) × cases(Sserg , D92 ) + total paymentS(8other , D92 ) total.payments(So , D92 )
= paymenl,s_per_case(S,rg ,
D93 ) × cases(Ssurg , D92 ) + total paymentS(So,her , D92 )
( paymentsper x:ase(Sm,,s , D92 ) × cases(S,,,rg , D92 ) tot alpayments(Sother , D92 ) )
= ( payments per case(S , erg , D93 ) payments_per_case(S,erg ,
D92 ) ) × cases(S , erg ,
Substituting the values payments.per_caee(S,,,g , payments_per_case(Sg ,
D93 ) = D92 ) = cases(S,e,m , D92 ) =
$23,187 $14,818 149 gives us an impact value of $1,246,981 . This means that in the surgical sector resulted for computation of the impact in a general case are presented in the Appendix . the $8,369 change in payments_per_case in aa increase of $1,246,981 in overall total_payments . Equations
In this example the impact represents the potential savings that would be realized if the current value of the measure was brought back to its previous value , i.e , GTE could save $1,246,981 if the payments.per_case measure for surgical admissions was brought back to its 1992 level . This approach has two major problems : ( 1 ) the old value may be aa unrealistic target , and ( 2 ) the impact does not indicate the degree of control or discretion we might have in changing the measure . These two problems are discussed in the following sections .
Page 30
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
4.2
Trend and Normative Deviations target Bringing a measure to its old value may be quite difficult or even impossible . A more realistic there are tables of for the measure is its expected normative value . In healthcare , as in other fields , norms ( computed by medical experts ) for many key measures , representing their average or desired values . The appendix describes how these norms can be used to derived expected normative values .
~ 8ur8
I
I
Time 1 , . 1 TO
I
[ I Time T . 1 TO
I
I
.a)Finding is still significant , despite b’le downward trend b ) Finding is not important , despite bhe upward trend
MI
I 1".1 TO
I
I o)t~eAIIhough~ both measure M1 . and measure M2 have 1he same deviation from norm at TO , their different trends give them different Importance .
Figure 2 : Different examples of trend and norm deviations
Figure 2 shows two examples of how focusingonly on changes can be mis]e~ling .
In Figure 2a , despite the downward trend in the measure , the finding is significant because the measure ’s value remains above the norm . In Figure 2b , despite the upward trend in the measure , the finding is not very significant because the measure ’s value is still below the norm .
This example suggests that perhaps the important issue is simply how a measure compares to its normative value . While this is a better approximation , it is also insufficient , as illustrated by figure 2c . While both measures have equal deviation from the norm at time To , the trend suggests that Ms will have a greater deviation in the future , if no action is taken . ¯ Thus , wesee that the normative impact at the present period reflects the "missed savings" and is only an approximation for the real measure of benefit , which is the "potential savings" achievable in the future .
421 Future Potential
Savings
Figure 3 shows two examples of estimating M(S , D(Tz))(ie that no action is taken ) and M(S , Norm(T1 ) ) ( ie sector S at Tz ) .
Figure 3a shows a simple case when only the present and previous values are available . Using the expected value of measure M in sector S at the next time period Tz , assuming the expected normative value of measure M in the future potential savings . We need to forecast
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 31
4 . , T’o T’ , @ ) Simple linear forecast from two points
. ,
Savings
¯ Actual value
’= hortative values
’"
I i,I I
’]llbae I
I
I
I
I T . , ToT , b ) Co n~_.ex fore.st fr~ several points . Note that not all normnve vaRJes are presem .
Figure 3 : Potential Savings . a linear trend model , we can forecast
M(S,D(T1 ) ) = 2 x M(S,D(To)) M(S,D(T_1 ) )
M(S , Norm(T1 ) ) = 2 x M(S , Norm(To ) ) M(S , Norm(T_x ) )
If more data points are available , as in figure 3b then more complex forecasting strategies are the best llne or using a rolling average . A further refinement is knowledge possible , such asfltting based forecasting [ Lee etaL , 1990 ] , which can also consider other factors , such as medical inflation trends for price measures , downsizing trends for the number of employees , etc .
Given that we can adequately estimate values for time T1 , we can define the potential savings from the deviation on measure M in sector S as the impact of the difference between M(S , D(T1 ) ) and M( S , Norm(T1 )
Potential Savings(M , S ) impact(M , S , D(7"1 ) , Nor m(T1 ) IIM0 , S0 )
4.3
Discretion
Potential savings is not of much value if it cannot be realized . The degree to which a user has control overObtalning the potential savings is called discretion . When a user has total discretionary control , the entire potential savings represented by the impact can be achieved we then say that the user has i00 % discretionary control . More often , a user will have only partial control over the value of a measure in a given sector . In these cases , onIy a fraction of the potential savings can be expected . A natural way to represent discretion the likelihood of achieving the potential savings . is as a weighting factor between 0 and 1 representing
For each finding we need to derive a discretionary weight . This weight could be associated with the measure , with the sector , an action , or some function of these . For example , a discretionary weight assigned to a particular measure would indicate the relative control the user has over that measure ’s value independent of the sector or the specific action . The problem with this approach is that the discretion over a measure is usually highly dependent upon the sector in which it occurs . In addition , the likelihood ofreallzing the potential savings is conditional on there being an action available . It therefore makes more sense to associate discretion with actions .
From a healthcare perspective , the availability of intervening actions makes a finding much more for savings . For example , interesting managers have no actions for affecting the number of regular pregnancies , but there are several accepted actions for reducing the number of premature deliveries or for improving quality of care to the manager because these represent real opportunities
Page 32
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 if measure=payment s_per_case sector=surgical_admission measure value increased then recomend : A study success probability : is su~asted by more than 10~ . for discretionary 0.4 and high cost surgery .
Figure 4 : A sample rule , translated into English . for chronic illnesses . Consequently , findings interesting than findings relating to normal deliveries . that relate to premature deliveries are much more
Our heaithcare domain expert has provided a number of recommended actions for various measures in different sectors . These are encoded in the system as production rules . For each rule the expert estimated the probability of success how likely the action is to bring the measure back to the norm . An example of one of these rules is given in Figure 4 .
For a given finding , the system identifies matching rules and selects the rule with the highest probability of success Pauccese . It then computes the estimated ( as opposed to potential)benefit using the following formula :
Estimated Benefit(finding ) = Potential Savings(finding )
× ps,,~sa
Because the heaithcare field is rapidly progressing , the set of available actions will be constantly changing . To adjust to that , and to explicitly account for incompleteness of system ’s knowledge , a default action of simply reporting the deviation matches any finding ; this can be viewed as an encoding for the likelihood that bringing the deviation to the user ’s attention will lead to some ( unknown to the system ) corrective action . The success probability of the default action varies for different sectors , but is generally low .
4.4 ¯ Statistical
Significance
Let us further consider the example of deviations in Surgical paymentsper_case The significance of this deviation would be less if the million,doUar plus increase were attributable case than if it were due to several dozen high,cost cases . The rationale for this reasoning is that a single extreme case is unlikely to re occur next year , and so there is nothing to be done ; several dozen high cost cases , however , indicates a potentially correctable pattern . Formally capturing this intuition requires analysis of statistical to a single extreme significance .
Estimating the potential benefit of an action as a single number ( eg estimated benefit
$567,432 ) has the added problem of giving a false sense of precision . Forecasting is intrinsically an imprecise science and it would be much better to give a range and a confidence ( eg estimated benefit is between¯ $400,000 and $700,000 with confidence 0.9 ) , or even a central estimate and standard deviation .
Computing the confidence or a standard deviation requires either knowing the apriori data distribution ( impossible in our application and in most real cases ) , or having a large set of historical ¯ data points . In our application , we have huge amounts of data , but they only go back one or two years , and thus we cannot make a reliable annual forecast based ¯only on this data . The lack of historical data and consequent lack of standard statistical measures is , unfortunately , typical for today . In the meantime , we are solving the problem by using many areas of medical cost analysis simple approaches such as disregarding findings based on less than a minimum number of cases ,
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 33 and using heuristic Better methods of producing statistically topic of further research . rules for dealing with extreme deviations based on a small number of cases . reliable estimates , given very incomplete data , axe the
5 Conclusions
Several systems have recently been developed for analyzing changes and deviations in large relar tiona ] databases . Success of these systems hinges On their ability to identify a few important and relevant deviations among the multitude of potentially interesting events . In this paper we argued that interestingness should be based On the estimated benefit from possible actions taken in response to observed deviations . We presented an’approach used in KEFIR for doing this based on the notions of impact and discretion . Although this approach makes several simplifying assumptions , the results of the system in practise have shown the merit of the method and encourage further research in this ares .
Acknowledgments : Dwight McNeill was a tremendous help and inspiration in clarifying views on interestingness . We thank the referees for their suggestion . We are very grateful Goyal and Bill Griffin for their encouragement of our work on discovery in databases . our to Shri
References
[ Anand and Kahn , 1992 ] T . Anand and G . Kahn . SPOTLIGHT : A data explanation system . In
Proc . Eighth IEEE Conf . Appl . AI , 1992 .
[ DeGroot , 1970 ] M . H . DeGroot . Optimal Statistical Decisions . McGraw Hill , New York , 1970 .
[ Frswley et al . , 1991 ] William J . Frawley , Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro , and Christopher J . Matheus . Knowledge discovery in databases : An overview . In Knowledge Discovery in Databases , pages 1 27 . AAAI/MIT Press , Cambridge , MA , 199i . Reprinted in AI Magazine , Vol . 13 , No . 3 , Ig9~ .
[ Lee et al . , 1990 ] J . K . Lee , S . B . Oh , and J . C . Shin . UNIK FCST : Knowledge assisted axljustment of statistical forecasts . Expert Systems with Applications , 1(1):39 49 , 1990 .
[ Matheus et al . , 1993 ] Christopher J . Matheus , Philip K . Chan , and Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro .
Systems for knowledge discovery Engineering , 5(6 ) , 1993 . in databases .
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
[ Matheus eta/ . ,
1994 ] Christopher 3 . Matheus , Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro ,
An application of kefir KDD workshop , July 1994 . to the analysis of healthcare information . and Dwight McNeUl . In Proceedings of AAAI 9J
[ Ousterhout , 1990 ] John K . Ousterhout . TCL : An embeddable command language .
In Proceedings o.f the 1990 Winter USENIX Conference , pages 133 146 , 1990 .
[ Piatetsky Shapiro , strong rules . MA , 1991 .
1991 ] Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro . Discovery , analysis , and presentation of In Knowledge Discovery in Databases , pages 1 27 . AAAI/MIT Press , Cambridge ,
[ Schmitz et al . , 1990 ] J . Schmitz , G . Armstrong , and 3 . D . C . Little . CoverStory automated news finding in marketing . In DSS Transactions , pages 46 54 , Providence , RI . , 1990 . Institute of Management Sciences .
Page 34
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
Appendix : Calculating
Impacts and Expected Values
Some of the aspects of KEFIR ’s method for determining interestingness may not be immediately obvious . Here we provide implementation details for calculation of impact of a deviation and calculation of the expected normative value for a measure .
Calculating
Impact
The bottom line measure M0 is chosen so that all other measures can be related to it via formulas . Thus , for any measure Mi there is a function j~ such that Mo ~= fi(Mi , D ) and the impact of change in Mi is computed simply as impact( Mi , S , Do , DR ) = fi( Mi( S , Do ) , DR ) Mo(
( 1 )
First , let ’s examine the computation of impact of change in the bottom line measure M0 for the different sectors . If So = 51 U 52 U U Sk , then we can write the old value of Mo(So )
Mo(So , DR ) = Mo(S1 , DR ) + + Mo(Si , DR ) + + Mo(Sk ,
( 2 ) and the value M~ that Mo would have if Mo would change only in Si but not in other sectors , is
M~ = Mo(S1 , DR ) + + Mo(Si , Do ) + + Mo(Sk ,
Subtracting these equations we get impact( Mo , $i , Do , DR ) = Mo( Si , Do ) Mo(S/ , DR
( 3 )
( 4 ) ie the bottom line impact of M0 change in Si is simply the difference between the new and the old values of M0 in S~ . For example , if the total payments for surgical admissions changed from $2.2 million in 1992 to$3.2 million in 1993 , the impact on the bottom line is simply $1 million .
Next , assume we axe given a specific sector S and let us examine how to compute the impact of change of a specific measure Mi in just that sector .
Measures are related to other measures by different
~when these formulas have only additions and multiplications Health KEFIR measures ) , the function fi formulas . In the important special case ( which is the case for almost all that expresses measure Mo via Mi can be written as
Mo(So , D) A(S,D)Mi(S,D ) + where A(S , D ) . and B(S , depend on the sect or , the data base inst ance , and other measures , but not on Mi . So , the reference bottom line value of M0 is
Mo(So , DR ) = A(S , DR ) x Mi(S , DR ) + B(S , and the value Mo would have if only Mi would change in DR would be
Mo(S , Dn[Mi = Mi(Do) ] ) = A(S , DR ) x Mi(S , Do ) +
Subtracting , we get impact(Mi , S , Do , DR ) = A(S , DR ) x ( Mi(S , Do ) Mi(S ,
( 5 )
( 7 )
( 8 )
Note that B(S , D ) th e co ntribution re sulting fr om additive te rms drops away co mpletely .
This equation allows to compute impact for measures related simply by keeping track of the multiplicative factor A(S , DR ) . to Mo by additions and multiplications
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 35
Expected Value of a Measure
Computation and analysis of normative values is a science in itself , of medical consultants . For healthcare , norms are available vary by region , age , sex , and the DRG ( Diagnostic Related Group or , in plain english , disease type ) , eg payment.per_case for DRG=75 it practiced by the large number for most important measures . Norms in Northeast USA for DRG=21 is $4,879 while in Southwest USA is $25,210 .
The normative tables give the average ( or best practice ) value expected for the typical popula~ tion . If the exam!ned population differs from the typical one , the direct comparison of the measure value with the norm value maY be misleading . the normative tables should be used to compute the expected value for specified measures , given the particular population .
Itather ,
Healthcare measures can be divided into several broad classes ,
( eg paymen~s_p~r capita ) , price measures ( eg payments.per_case ) , including cost measures and use measures ( eg
¯ ¯ casuper_1000 people ) While many different criteria affect each type of measure , several simple the use measures correlate most causal models have been developed in healthcare . strongly with age and sex of s person , while the price measures correlate most strongly with the DRG distribution of cases .
In particular ,
To compare the value of a use measure like cases_per_1000 for the West Region with the expected normative value , we need to compute the break down of the West Region population into Age/Sex groups ( table 1 ) .
Norms Age Group M , 0 17 0 17 F , M , 18 34 F , 18 ~4 eeee M , 65+ F , 65+
Cases per 1000
56.5 53.5 34.4 129.8
179.9 121.2
West Region Frequency Age Group M , 0 17 0 17 F , M , 18 34 F , 18 34 ee" M , 65+ F , 65+
Frequency 9.3~~ 8.3~ 16.5~ 24.5~
3.5~ 2.3~
Table 1 : Norms table and the population distribution for the West Region .
So , if ASG is the Age/Sex Group , then the expected value of cases_per_lO00 will be
~ ~ NOrmASG × FrequeneyAsG ASG
Such computation may reveal , than average value of cues.per_1000 in the West Region may be due to an unusually large proportion of the F , 18 34 group , which happens to have a higher than average norm for cases_per_1000 . for example , the higher that
Expected values for other measures are computed in a similar way .
Page 36
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
