From : AAAI Technical Report WS 94 03 . Compilation copyright © 1994 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Application of the TETRAD II Program to the
Study of Student Retention in US Colleges
Marek J . Druzdzel University of Pittsburgh
Department of Information Science
Pittsburgh ,
PA 15260 marek@lis.pitt , edu
Clark Glymour
Carnegie Mellon University Department of Philosophy PA 15213
Pittsburgh , cgO9 + @andrew . cmu . edu
Abstract
We applied TETRAD II , a causal discovery program developed in Carnegie Mellon University ’s Department of Philosophy , to a database containing information on 204 US colleges , collected by the US News and World Report magazine for the purpose of college ranking . Our analysis focuses on possible causes of low freshmen retention in US colleges . TETRAD
II finds a set of causal structures that are compatible with the data .
One apparently robust finding is that student retention is directly related to the average test scores and high school class standing of the incoming freshmen . When test scores and class standing are controlled for , factors such as student faculty ratio , faculty salary , and university ’s educational expenses per student are all independent of both retention and graduation rates , and , therefore , do not seem to directly influence student retention . Furthermore , simple linear regression applied to test scores , class standing , and retention data showed that the test scores and class standing explain 52.6 % of the variance in freshmen retention rate and 62.5 % of the variance in graduation rate ( test scores alone explain 50.5 % and 62.0 % respectively ) . This result becomes even stronger when computed for the group of top ranking colleges regression applied to a group of 41 top ranking colleges showed explanation of 68.3 % of the variance in freshmen retention rate and 77.0 % in graduation rate ( 66.6 % and 75 % respectively for test scores alone ) .
As the test scores and class standing are both indicators of the overall quality of the incoming students , we predict that one of the most effective ways of improving student retention in an individual High selectivity will lead to higher quality of the incoming students and , effectively , the college ’s selectivity . to higher retention rate . college is increasing
1
Introduction rate tends to be close achieve a student
Even though some American colleges mean retention the incoming students graduate across a set of 200 US national universities ) . waste in effort , money , and human potential . Retention rate student satisfaction with their university program and , hence , indirectly , rate of over 90 % , the fewer than 20 % of rates usually means is often thought to indicate the quality of the the distribution Low student to 55 % and in some colleges
( see Figure 1 for of graduation retention retention
KDD 94
AAA1 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 419 rate m universities close to the top of ranking lists
Indeed , a significant correlation can be observed between university ranking university . and retention tend to have high retention rates . Is a university ’s low student retention rate an indication of shortcomings in the quality of education , facilities available to students , tuition costs , university ’s location , or perhaps wrong admission policies ? More importantly , what action can the university take to improve the student retention student facilities , teaching faculty , or modifications to admission policies make a difference ? rate ? Can such actions as higher spending on increasing quality standards for increasing the student/faculty ratio ,
~udem rete~ion r~e
Figure 1 : Histogram of the graduation rates for 200 US national universities US News and World Report ) .
( Source :
This paper describes a preliminary effort to see what , if anything , aggregate data for can tell us about the problem . Policy decisions demand that we man~ US universities know the causal structure of the system that we want to manipulate , and we therefore believe that determining the interactions among different relevant variables , including the direction of these interactions , is the necessary first step in addressing the problem . As university scale experiments may be too expensive , ethically suspect , or otherwise impractical , our research needs to rely mainly on observations . The analysis has to be practically limited to extracting patterns from large collections of measurements of relevant variables . Our analysis involves data concerning 204 US colleges , collected annually by US News and World Report for the purpose of their college ranking ( the data available to us is for 1992 ) . In our analysis , we apply TETlZAD II [ 3 ] , a program embedding recently developed methods for causal discovery from observations . These methods , described in [ 4 ] , are closely related to those employed in the induction of probabilistic models from data ( eg , [ 1] ) . While we are far from giving clear cut answers to the questions posed above , believe that our analysis provides some interesting insight into the problem . The available data suggests that the main factor in student retention among the studied variables is the average test scores ( or other measures of academic ability ) of incoming students . The test scores of matriculating students are a function of the quality of the applicants and the university ’s selectivity . High selectivity leads to high average test scores of the incoming to higher freshmen retention and graduation rates . Factors such students and effectively
Page 420
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 as student faculty ratio , faculty salary , and university ’s educational expenses per student do not seem to be directly causally related to freshmen retention . This hypothesis should be checked using data internal to any particular university , especially since the national data are aggregated to include both academic and non academic dropouts . If the national pattern is confirmed locally , we would suggest that , wherever possible , steps aimed at making the university more selective be taken . Improving the comparative image of the school , and therefore increasing the number of applicants , increasing the selectivity of the admission process , increasing the chance that good applicants will accept admission offer rather in the long run . than choosing another university , should improve student retention
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows . We describe the analyzed data set ( Section 2 ) and our assumptions about this data ( Section 3 ) . Then we summarize view of the system that will provide us with prior information about the problem , useful in causal discovery procedures ( Section 4 ) . The results of our analysis are presented Section 5 . Section 5.1 presents the results of TETRAD II ’s search for possible causal structures that generated the data and Section 5.2 reports the results of applying simple regression to selected interactions identified by TETRAD II . We finish with a discussion of these results and policy suggestions ( Section 6 ) .
2
The Data
The data used in our study consists of a set of statistics concerning 204 US national universities and national liberal arts colleges 1 collected by the US News and World Report magazine for the purpose of college ranking . To prepare the data for its annual ranking of co;lieges , ~ US News each year goes through a laborious process of data collection from several hundred of US colleges . The data is collected from various university offices , such as admissions or business office , by means of surveys prepared by outside companies . It is subsequently verified by the schools representatives . The process of collecting the data and combining them into the final college ranking is described in [ 2 ] .
We started with four spreadsheet files for 204 national universities provided by US News and World Report : Instructional Resources Ranking , Selectivity Ranking , Retention Ranking , and Financial Resources Ranking . Each of the four spreadsheets contained the 204 universities ranked from the best to the worst in the respective category . To bring together various measurements and to relate the two variables of interest , freshmen retention rate and graduation rate to such indicators as coneges’ selectivity , financial and instructional resources , we combined the four spreadsheets into one large spreadsheet containing over 100 variables measured for each of the 204 universities . Many of these variables were analytical derivatives of other variables ( eg , retention rate was simply the ratio of graduating seniors to incoming freshmen , both numbers included separately in the spreadsheet ) .
1Defined as major research universities and leading grantors of doctoral degrees . 2The data available to us are for the year 1992 .
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 421 important to reduce the number of variables studied ) We selected
The sample size , redundancy of the variable set , and missing values for various quantities , made it the following nine variables for our analysis : average percentage of freshmen retention ( apret ) , average percentage of graduation ( apgra ) , rejection rate ( rejr ) , average test scores of the incoming students ( tstsc ) , class standing of the incoming freshmen ( toplO ) , which is percentage of the incoming freshmen who were in top 10 % of their high school graduating class , percentage of admitted students who accept university ’s offer ( pace ) , total educational and general expenses per student ( spend ) , which is the sum spent on instruction , student services , academic support , including libraries and computing services , student teacher ratio ( strut ) , and average faculty salary ( salar ) . Describing each of over 100 remaining variables and discussing why we have not considered therefor our analysis would to a few remarks . The values make this paper unacceptably long . We limit ourselves of a large nUmber of the variables were included indirectly in the nine chosen variables . for example , is a normalized compilation Average test scores of incoming students ( tstsc ) , of values of 14 variables , including a breakdown of average results for various parts of SAT and ACT tests . Average percentage of freshmen retention ( apret ) and average percentage of graduation ( apgra ) express the essence of all 14 variables in the Retention Ranking file . Rejection rate ( rejr ) and percentage of admitted students who accept university ’s offer ( pace ) express , along with the average test scores ( tstsc ) and class standing ( toplO ) , selectivity of the school . We chose the total educational and general expenses per student ( spend ) , student teacher ratio ( strut ) and average faculty salary ( salar ) as indicators of the quality of school ’s teaching and financial resources .
From the complete set of 204 universities , we removed 23 universities that had missing values for any of the nine variables of interest . This resulted in a set of 181 data points .
3
The Assumptions of the tests . The necessary tests are
Although TETRAD II ’s algorithms are independent on the actual distribution variables , they rely on the outcomes of a series of statistical especially powerful if we can assume normally distributed , linearly related variables . We studied how reasonable this assumption is for the available data set by plotting histograms of each of the nine variables and scatter plots of each pair of the nine variables . By visual inspection of the histograms and scatter plots , we removed six data points from the set of 181~ data points that appeared to be outliers . The resulting data set , consisting of the normality and the linearity assumptions . All 175 data points , reasonably satisfies histograms were close to symmetric unimodal distributions ( see Figure 2 for an example ) , with the exception of two positively skewed variables , spend and strut . The interactions
SA reviewer asked why any variables were omitted at all , and why covariances were not computed by tests and the reliability of search depend simply skipping missing data points . The power of statistical on the ratio of the number of sample points to the number of variables : The higher the ratio , the better . Including variables with missing values and calculating covariances by skipping a particular unit for a particular variable , as the reviewer suggested , would undermine the theoretical tests . Testing partial correlations from the correlation matrix and , since involves multiple correlations reliability of statistical
Page 422
AAAI.94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
35
3O
26
10
5
0
Average test scores of incoming students ( tetsc )
Figure 2 : Histogram of the test scores tstsc for the 175 data points . between different pairs of variables could be viewed as approximately linear ( see Figure for an example ) .
9O
7O
I"g . so
.8 40
,n" m m Iqlm ’Ib ll~Z’ilm "
~. .= , , ~’A b =’J~ .
"j.~ :
0
I 20
I 40
I 60
I 80
I 100
Average test scoces of incoming studerets ( tstsc )
Figure 3 : Interaction between tstsc and apgra for the 175 data points .
An important assumption made by TETRAD II that generated the data points is acyclic . This assumption is not necessarily true in our data set . For example , most of the variables considered influence the image of the university . The image , in turn , can be argued to influence all of the nine variables . We still think that the acyclicity assumption is reasonable in our data set , as all feedback processes that we can think of in this context are extremely slow acting ( at least on the order of decades as opposed to the interaction of our interest between the measured factors and retention is that the causal structure these would not be based on a fixed sample size , the sample size used in the tests would be indeterminate .
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 423 so that rate ) , negligible . in the snapshot provided by the 1992 data points they can be assumed
An assumption frequently made in causal modeling is causal sufficiency , which is an assumption that the analyzed variables form a self contained structure there are no latent common causes . An equivalent of this assumption is the assumption that all error terms are independent . TETRAD II allows for search with both the causal sufficiency assumption and without it . As it is unlikely that the selected variables form a self contained structure , we have run TETRAD II without making the causal sufficiency assumption . Several control runs with causal sufficiency assumption did not reveal anything that would put our main conclusions in question .
4
Prior Knowledge
Interactions between some of the considered variables are reasonably well known . For example , we know the formula for computing the rejection rate , acceptance rate , retention , and graduation amount , the number of accepted students , the average faculty salary , etc . Inseveral discussions between us and our colleagues , we developed a reasonable consensus on the causal graph that involves the analyzed variables ( see Figure 4 ) . We believe that a variable that we named image rates . We know what determines the tuition i,ooi
Figure 4 : Initial assumptions about causal interactions rectangles are analyzed in our study . in the system . Variables inside of the school directly influences the number of applicants , their quality , and the number of them that will accept the university ’s admission offer . It also influences the quality of
Page 424
AAAI.94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 the faculty and the financial situation of the college ( consider , for example , endowment funds and higher likelihood of external funding ) . Financial status of the school influences indirectly the tuition rate , the number of admitted students , student teacher ratio , average faculty salary , and quality of the faculty . Rejection rate and admission acceptance rate are determined by the number of applicants , the number of admitted students , and the number of them accepting the university ’s offer . The average test scores of incoming freshmen are determined by the overall quality of the applicants , the rejection rate , and the admission acceptance rate . Finally , our only assumption about how freshmen retention and graduation rates fit into this structure is that they do not cause any other variables considered .
The only purpose for showing Figure 4 is to make explicit the time order among the the average spending per student ( spend ) , student teacher and faculty salary ( salar ) are determined based on budget considerations studied variables . In particular , ratio ( strut ) , and are not influenced by any of the five remaining variables . Rejection rate ( rejr ) and percentage of students who are offered admission ( rcjr ) and who accept the university ’s offer ( pacc ) precede the average test scores ( tstsc ) and class standing ( toplO ) of incoming freshmen . The average freshmen retention rate ( apret ) precedes average graduation rate ( apgra ) because graduation rate depends on freshmen dropouts but also on dropouts in later years . We used only the temporal ordering of variables captured below as information to restrict the model search for TETRAD II . spend , strat , salar rejr , pacc tstsc , topl O apret apgra
5
The Results to the data would allow us to make
While applying , for example , simple regressions predictions about the value of a variable of interest given the values of other variables , this would not be sufficient for our purpose . What we want is to predict the effects of external manipulations of the system by means of new policies aimed at improving the retention rate . For this , we need information about the underlying causal structure of the system . We describe the results of the search for a class of causal structures that could possibly have generated the analyzed data set by means of a causal discovery program , TETRAD II , in Section 51
In Section 5.2 we describe the results of measuring the strength of the most important causal connections suggested by the data : from the average test scores and class standing to retention rate and from test scores and class standing to the graduation rate . We apply simple linear regression to obtain a quantitative estimate of the interaction between these variables . We emphasize that we used regression only to estimate the coefficients in a linear model obtained by the TETRAD II search . to search for the variables influencing retention and graduation , it would include variables
If regression were used instead
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 425 that TETRAD II says have no direct independent of the outcome variables . influence on the outcome , and that are conditionally
5.1 TETRAD II
When TETRAD II is run on normally distributed assumption , it converts the raw data into a correlation matrix . The values of the elements of this matrix is all that matters in discovery . The correlation matrix for all 175 data points is reproduced in Figure 5 . data with the linearity apret apgra re jr tstsc pacc spend strat so|or topl0 apret 1.00000 0.78122 0.53434 0.70576 0.28385 0.52424 0.40727 0.66202 0.68521 apgra rejr tstsc pacc spend strat solar topl0
1.00000 0.54303 0.79334 0.26149 0.56882 0.47905 0.65033 0.66603
1.00000 0.67515 0.00739 0.61999 0.39634 0.65577 0.68243
1.00000 0.11191 0.73886 0.55430 0.75969 0.82430
1.00000 0.11454 0.17285 0.29412 0.15524
1.00000 0.72463 0.71291 0.67249
1.00000 0.44534 0.43016
1.00000 0.68265
1.00000
Figure 5 : Matrix of correlations among the analyzed variables ( 175 data points ) . for conditional all interactions between a and b take place through intermediate variables
When making decisions about independence of a pair of variables conditional on a tests ( in the normal linear subset of the remaining variables , TETRAD II uses statistical independence ) . The search begins with a complete case , standard z test undirected graph . Edges in this graph are removed by testing for appropriate conditional If two variables a and b become independent when conditioned on independence relations . there is no direct causal connection between them a subset 3 of the remaining variables , included in S . This is a simple consequence of two assumptions known as Markov condition and the faithfulness condition [ 4 ] . Orientation of the remaining edges is based on a theorem proven in [ 4 ] . For example , suppose that two variables a and b are not directly connected ( ie , there exists a subset of the remaining variables S that makes a and b conditionally independent ) and there is an edge between a and c and an edge between b and c . If a and are independent conditional on S and dependent conditional on ,~Uc , then a and b are both direct causal predecessors of c . In other words , the edges can be oriented from a to c and from b to c . Both , the process of removing edges and the process of orienting edges , can be aided by prior information about the underlying graph . TETRAD II allows for specifying presence or absence of direct connections between pairs of variables and also temporal precedence among the variables . Knowledge of temporal precedence allows for limiting the number of tests for conditional independence and , under certain circumstances , aids in orienting the edges of the graph . If , for example , variables a and b are directly connected , there is no latent common cause of a and b , and a precedes b in time , then the edge can be oriented from a to b . The details of TETRAD II ’s search algorithm are given in [ 4 ] .
Page 426
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
Depending on the significance levels . We ran TETRAD II with the following significance level used in independence tests , TETRAD II ’s individual statistical decisions regarding independence may be different and a different class of causal structures may result . It is , therefore , a good practice to run the program at several significance levels : p = 0.2 , 0.15 , 0.1 , 0.05 , 0.01 , and 0001 The core of the structure , ie , how freshmen retention rate and graduation rate are related to the remaining variables , was insensitive to changes in significance . This suggests that the structure proposed by TETRAD II is robust . The graphs proposed by TETRAD II for significance levels p = 0.05 and p = 0.001 are pre : sented in Figure 6 , The edges of the graph have the following meaning : A single arrow ( * ) denotes a direct causal influence . A double headed arrow ( ~ , ) between two variables denotes presence of a latent common cause of these two variables . An single arrow with a circle at one end ( o ~ ) expresses TETRAD II ’s to deduce whether there is a direct influence between the two variables ( , ) or a latent common cause between them ( , ~ ) . An edge with circles at both ends ( o ~ ) expresses TETRAD II ’s to deduce whether there is a direct influence between the two variables and , if so , what is its direction ( > or , ) or a latent common cause between them ( 4 + ) . inability inability salar ~ toplO toplO p O.05
I)=O.O01 apgm
Figure 6 : Two relevant parts of causal graphs proposed by TETRAD II for the complete data set of 175 universities ( significance levels p=0.05 and p=0001 )
In both of the graphs in Figure 6 as well as in most of the graphs suggested by TETRAD II any connection between apret and apgra and variables like spend , strat , or salaris through tstsc or toplO . The "latent common cause" connection between salar and apret , shown in Figure 6 for p 0.05 , disappears at p < 004 Most graphs contained a direct causal connection between the average test scores and freshmen retention . Also , the graphs contain a direct ( or through a common cause ) connection between freshmen retention and graduation rate .
TETRAD II ’s algorithms are much more reliable in determining existence of direct causal links than in determining their orientation . Therefore , prior knowledge supplied to TETRAD II may be critical for the orientation of edges of the graph . We used the temporal sequence described in Section 4 , but we also checked the robustness of our result to temporal ordering by running TETRAD II with no assumptions about temporal all direct precedence . Although TETRAD II proposed different orderings of variables ,
KDD 94
~ 94
Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 427
° . links , and the direct link between test scores and retention and graduation in particular , were the same in both cases .
To check whether the causal structure is the same for the top ranked universities we II" one with universities that were in the prepared two additional data sets for TETRAD top 50 universities on at least one of the four lists , and one with universities that were in the top 30 on at least one of the four lists . The two data sets contained 74 and 41 data points respectively . The results are similar for each of the three data sets . Any differences can be partially attributed to a significantly smaller number of data points and , hence , higher susceptibility to chance variations . Figure 7 shows two graphs obtained for the set of 41 top ranking universities . p O . 05 t>,0.001 apgra
Figure 7 : Two relevant parts of causal graphs proposed by TETRAD 41 top ranking universities ( significance levels p=0.05 and p=0001 )
II for a subset of
5.2 Linear
Regression
We applied linear regression to the relation between the indicators of the quality of incoming freshmen : tstsc ( average test scores ) and toplO ( class rating ) and apret ( freshmen retention rate ) and apgra ( graduation rate ) to obtain a quantitative measure of these interactions . In the full data set of 175 data points , linear regression applied to apret on ~s~sc results in the following equations : apre¢ 33.4 + 0.142 toplO + 0.634 Cstsc , R sq(adj ) 5267 apEra 68.4 + 0.0283 ¢op10 + 1.87 cstsc , R sq(adj ) 6257
In the restricted set of 74 top universities , the regression equations are : apret 49.8 + 0.0702 ¢oplO + 0.490 Cstsc , R sq(adj ) 5757 apEra 69.0 0.116 toplO + 2.04 tstsc , R sq(adj ) 6177
In the restricted set of 41 top universities , the regression equations are : apret = 53.7 + 0.0494 ¢op10 + 0.468 tstsc , R sq(adj ) = 6837 apEra 73.0 0.150 ¢opI0 + 2.15 ¢sCsc , R sq(adj ) = 7707
As the coefficient of tstsc in all three equations is significantly larger than the coefficient of toplO ( note that it is in the groups of top ranking colleges actually negative ) , we repeated the procedure for tstsc as the only indica~,J,~’ obtaining :
Page 428
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94 apret = 13.2 + 1.02 apEra = 78.7 + 2.04 tstsc , tstec ,
In the restricted set of 74 top apre¢ = 37.7 + 0.713 terse apgra 61.8 + 1.84 Cstsc ,
In the restricted set of 41 top apret = 49.2 + 0.574 tstec ap~a 59.4 + 1.82 ¢stsc ,
R sq(adj ) = 50.5Z R scl(adj ) , , 62.0~ , universities , , R sq(adj ) = 57.0Z R sq(adj ) 63.2Z universities , , R eq(adj ) 66.6Z 75.0Z
R sq(adj ) the same regression equations are : the regression equations are :
Although the impact of test scores on the average freshmen retention rate and graduation rate is smaller for top ranking colleges ( note a smaller value of the coefficient ) , these test scores explain more of the variance . In the group of top ranking colleges , the average test scores of incoming freshmen explain as much as 75 % of the variance in graduation rates . Average test scores along with class standing explain as much as 77 % of the variance in graduation rates .
6 Discussion
It seems that none of the variables in the data set are directly causally related to freshmen retention except for test scores and class standing . This result , following directly from the fact that freshmen retention rate and graduation rate are , given average test scores and class standing , conditionally seems to be robust across varying significance levels , availability of prior knowledge , and data set size . The average test scores seem to have a high predictive power for student retention and graduation rates . For the top 41 ranking colleges , average test scores in combination with class standing explain as much as 68.3 % of the variance in freshmen retention rate and 77%~of the variance in graduation rate . independent of all remaining variables ,
Average test scores and class standing of incoming students can be viewed as indicators of the quality of incoming students . It seems that retention rate in an individual college can be improved by increasing the quality of the incoming students . This , in turn , can be improved by increasing the number and the quality of applicants . The better the pool of the better the accepted students applicants from which an admission committee can select , and , hopefully , the better the matriculating students are likely to be . Changing factors such as faculty salary , student/teacher ratio , or spending per student should , according to our result , have no direct effect on freshmen retention and graduation rates .
Theoretically , it is possible to use the regression coefficients between average test rate obtained in this study to predict scores and retention in the average test scores of incoming students on freshmen retention and graduation . There are , however , potential problems with making predictions of an intervention at one institution , as the coefficients of the regression equations do not need to be identical for each institution . the impact of improvement
One limitation in our study is that the available U[/ News data do not disaggregate academic from non academic dropouts . We predict that internal data will show a difference between average test scores of dropouts ( academic and non academic ) and graduates .
KDD 94
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
Page 429
Another limitation is that our data do not disaggregate between different departments . Some departments may have many academic dropouts , others few . Also , the available that may have been relevant , as geographical data set did not include other variables location ( climate , urban/rural , etc. ) , tuition costs , available academic support , financial situation of the students , prominence of athletics on campus , etc .
Finally , it is possible to apply alternative prior models of interaction of the variables in suggested to us by Steven Klepper , might involve one latent our data set . One alternative , variable influencing all nine variables studied . This model , however , would not account for the strong conditional independences observed in the data , and is in fact rejected by the standard f ratio test ( Chi square of 356 with 27 degrees of freedom ) .
7 , Acknowledgments
Considerable data collection effort and generosity in making the collected data available on the part of US News and World Report made this study possible . Steven Klepper , Chris Meek , Richard Scheines and Peter Spirtes contributed to our work with valuable suggestions . We thank Felicia Ferko , Kevin Lamb , and Jeffrey Bolton from Carnegie Mellon University ’s Office of Planning and Budget for enabling us to access the data files and providing insightful background information . Anonymous reviewers prompted us for more details in our presentation . Support for this work has been provided by ONR and NPRDC under grant N00014 93 1 0568 to Carnegie Mellon University .
References [ 1 ] %
Gregory F . Cooper and Edward Herskovits . A Bayesian method for the induction of probabilistic networks from data . Machine Learning , 9:309 347 , 1992 .
[ 2]Robert J . Morse , Senior Editor . US News & World Report ’s America ’s Best Colleges Rankings : How it ’s done . Technical report , US News and World Report , Washington , DC , May 8 , 1992 .
[ 3 ] Richard Scheines , Peter Spirtes , Clark Glymour and Christopher Meek . TETRAD II :
Tools .for Discovery . Lawrence Erlbaum Associates , Hillsdale , N J , 1994 .
[ 4 ] Peter Spirtes , Clark Glymour and Richard Scheines . Causation , Prediction ,
Search . Springer Verlag , 1993 . and
Page 4:30
AAAI 94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases
KDD 94
