DBLP Filter : Effectively Search on the DBLP Bibliography
Jiang Du , Peiquan Jin* , Lizhou Zheng , Shouhong Wan , Lihua Yue
University of Science and Technology of China , Hefei , China , 230027 jpq@ustceducn
ABSTRACT DBLP is a well known online computer science bibliography . As nearly all important journals and conferences on computer science are tracked in DBLP , how to effectively search DBLP records has become a valuable topic for the computer science community . In this paper we present DBLP Filter , a new DBLP search tool . The major features of DBLP Filter are : ( 1 ) it provides new search options on concepts and literature importance ; ( 2 ) it can maintain user profiles and can support user area aware search ; ( 3 ) it provides the service of new literatures alert . Compared with the existing DBLP search tools , DBLP Filter is more functional and also shows better effectiveness in terms of MAP and F measure when tested under a set of randomly selected queries . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval . Keywords : DBLP ; Literature search ; Concept search ; Literature importance ; User aware search
1 . INTRODUCTION
DBLP has been one of the most important sources for researchers in computer science to find interested literatures , as almost all the major journals and conferences in computer science are tracked in DBLP .
In order to provide effective search service on DBLP bibliography , some researchers have developed several tools for searching DBLP records , which are also lined on the DBLP website ( http://wwwinformatikuni trierde/~ley/db/ ) Those tools include the Faceted search tool , the Free search tool , and the CompleteSearch search tool [ 1 ] . Although those tools provide a lot of search options on DBLP records , there are still some problems existed . For example , they cannot support search on synonyms , eg , when searching on “ Microblog ” , papers about “ Twitter ” will not be returned . In general , the major problems in current DBLP search can be summarized as follows : ( 1 ) Concept based search is not provided , ie , when you search “ Micorblog ” , literatures about “ Twitter ” but without an explicit word “ Microblog ” will not be returned . This will lower the recall of the search results .
( 2 ) Literature importance is not considered . As there are thousands of journals and conferences in the computer science area , researchers and especially fresh students need to find those much important literatures in their research field . The ranking of journals and conferences is also concerned by many organizations and programs , such as the China Computer Federation ( CCF ) and the Excellent in Research for Australia ( ERA ) .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577329 to
( 3 ) User preference as well as new literatures alert is not supported . Researchers have the state of the art literatures , which is generally performed manually so far . However , this can be improved if we can develop new literatures alert service based on the DBLP records . track
Some keyword based search systems on relational databases may also be used for DBLP search , such as SPARK [ 2 ] and PerK [ 3 ] . However , they were focused on introducing textual relevance into relational database , and did not consider the special needs in literatures search .
In this paper , we are aiming at developing a new search tool for DBLP records called DBLP Filter . The new tool has the following new features :
( 1 ) It provides new search options on concepts and literature importance . aware search .
( 2 ) It can maintain user profiles and can support user area
( 3 ) It provides the service of new literatures alert . The DBLP Filtering search tool has been implemented , and we compared DBLP Filter with other three existing search tools . The evaluation results including F measure and MAP ( Mean Average Precision ) on a set of randomly selected queries show that DBLP Filter outperforms its competitors , and provides more functions than previous tools . 2 . DESIGN OF DBLP FILTER
Figure 1 . The snapshot of DBLP Filter
Figure 1 shows the snapshot of DBLP Filter . The implementation of DBLP Filter is similar with other search tools , namely first parsing the DBLP records into a relational database , and then processing user queries in a Web based interface as well as returning the ranked results . The key features of DBLPFilter lie in the information enhancement , ranking , and the useraware services .
Concept and Citation Enhancement . The basic information in a DBLP search tool comes from the DBLP raw data . However , those raw DBLP records are not sufficient for literature search . For example , there is no citation information for each literature in the original DBLP data . Therefore , in DBLP Filter , we first add the citation information for each crawled literature . The citation information is crawled from the ACM Digital Library and is stored in a table in the database . We
255 can be found also construct an ontology from WordNet [ 4 ] to reflect the association among different words . For instance , “ Twitter ” is a type of “ Microblog ” . Therefore , when we process a query including “ Microblog ” , the system will automatically match the literatures about “ Twitter ” .
Ranking on Literature Importance . Literatures with high citation or published in prestigious journals or conferences are usually more influential in one ’s research filed . Therefore , in DBLP Filter we introduce the importance based search option ( the “ importance ” search option shown in Fig 1 ) , which aims to return important literatures and thus enable researchers focusing on those most important papers in their research topics . Basically , we measure the literature importance according to three factors : the ranking of published journal/conference , citation number . Currently , the ranking of journal/conference is manually maintained in the database . The current version of journal/conference ranking comes from the China Computer Federation in http://wwwccforgcn/sites/ccf/paimingjsp ( in Chinese ) . Other rankings can also be easily integrated into our system . The citation number is crawled from the ACM Digital Library .
( CCF ) , which
When using the default relevance based ranking method ( as shown in Fig 1 ) , we consider a lot of factors including textual relevance , concept literature importance , and user relevance ( will be discussed in the next paragraph ) . relevance , published date ,
User Aware Search Services . Users concerning the DBLP records are with different research fields . However , one keyword will frequently appear in the literatures within different fields . For example , the keyword “ moving objects ” not only frequently appears in database area ( particularly in moving objects databases ) , but also very common in the research on video based object tracking . In order to solve this problem , we allow user registration in DBLP Filter . A new user will be asked to select his/her research area or input research topics if necessary . The user ’s profile will be automatically matched with the DBLP records during the query processing and ranking process .
Another type of user aware search services in DBLP Filter is new literatures alert . When a new user is to register in DBLPFilter , he/she can choose whether to receive new literatures alerting . If yes , our system will send new literatures bibliography to the user via Email in case that new related literatures are indexed by DBLP . In our system , we use an incremental method to append new DBLP records into the database , ie , only the new or updated records will be inserted into the database . 3 . EVALUATION
For presenting a concrete comparison between DBLP Filter and the three existing DBLP search tools including the Faceted search tool ( Faceted ) , the Free search tool ( FreeSearch ) , and the CompleteSearch search tool ( CompleteSearch ) , we summarize the key features of them in Table 1 . The Results Grouping column in Table 1 means that the tool can group the results in terms of published year , type , author , venue , and so on . Although we have not added this feature into DBLP Filter , this can be done in the near future , because all the grouping fields are included in the original DBLP records .
Table 1 . Key features of DBLP Filter and other tools
To further evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed search tool , we randomly selected 16 queries and tested them on DBLP Filter and the three existing DBLP search tools . Figure 2 shows the average F measure and MAP ( Mean Average Precision ) of DBLP Filter and other tools . When calculating the F measure , the set of relevant results are constructed using the buffering technique , which unions the first 50 results of all the four search tools . And the MAP score is the average value of all the P@50 scores for the 16 queries . three
Figure 2 . Ave . F measure and MAP under 16 queries
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we proposed DBLP Filter for effectively search DBLP records . Compared with existing search tools , our system is more functional in supporting concept based search , literature importance based search , user aware search , and new literature alert . Furthermore , our preliminary experimental results show that it has higher F measure and MAP under 16 randomly selected queries . The future work will be focused on enhancing the system with results grouping function . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is supported by the National Science Foundation of China under the grant no . 71273010 and no . 61073039 .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] The DBLP Bibliography , in http://wwwinformatikuni trierde/~ley/db/
[ 2 ] Luo Y , Wang W , Lin X , SPARK : A Keyword Search
Engine on Relational Databases . In Proc . Of ICDE , 2008 , 1552 1555
[ 3 ] Stefanidis K , Drosou M , Pitoura E , PerK : personalized keyword search in relational databases through preferences . In Proc . Of EDBT , 2010 , 585 596
[ 4 ] Fellbaum C , WordNet : An electronic lexical database . in http://wwwcogsciprincetonedu/wn
256
