Strategic Foundation of Computational Social Science
Yunkyu Sohn
∗
Supervised by : James Fowler and Sue Moon
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
University of California San Diego La Jolla , California 92093 , USA ysohn@ucsd.edu
ABSTRACT For decades , scholars of various disciplines have been fretted over strategic interactions , presenting theoretical insights and empirical observations [ 3 , 18 , 25 ] . Despite the central role played by strategic interactions in creating values in the Internet environment , our ability to understand them scientifically and to manage them in practice has remained limited . While engineering communities suffer from not having enough theoretical resource to formalize such phenomena , economics and social sciences lack adequate technology to properly operationalize their theoretical insights , thereby demanding an integrative solution . This project aims to develop a rational choice theory driven framework for computational social science , focusing on social interactions on the Internet . In order to suggest theoretical foundations , validation of the predictions in a controlled environment , and verification of the results in actual platforms , general approaches and a few examples of ongoing research are presented .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ]
Keywords rational choice theory , social networks , online behavior
1 . PROBLEM
Incentivizing individuals to release information and stimulating their spontaneous interactions are at the core of managing human aided computing platforms ( eginformation filtering systems ) and value sharing on social networking services . At the moment , however , we lack a common device , which enables precise description of their underlying dynamics .
∗Reseach scientist at KAIST and PhD student at UCSD .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482567962
In order to approach this issue , we need to develop a research program which provides an integrative solution to understand and manage human interactions . Foremost , we need to devise a theoretical foundation which provides language for analyzing user interactions . While many studies in computational social science incorporate an extant of indices developed in social sciences , the relationship between actual human behavior and the indices are unclear . Hence , in addition to providing a framework for understanding online social interactions , theoretical efforts are expected to reveal what it means to use such indices in different classes of platforms and interactions . Second , the theory driven language must concord with our knowledge on realistic behavior of human . Since online social behavior also have to be explained by the general theory of social action , empirical observations of social sciences should be seriously considered in computational social science research . In particular , experimental studies in controlled environments enable us to investigate explicit roles of treatment variables that are very difficult to identify with observational data . On the basis of experimental resources , we can approximate extremely complicated real phenomena by separating key variables and their relationships . In order to analyze such data , technical tools developed in statistics and engineering communities must be used , particularly for working with massive datasets . Finally , all this combined information should lead us to suggest practical implications for managing the highly interconnected systems .
2 . STATE OF THE ART
Theory Rational choice theory is a foundational approach in behavioral science as it theorizes motivations behind behavior with parsimonious model based frameworks . In most of the models , researchers assume self interested individuals who aim to maximize their utilities by conducting strategic calculus . Theoretical models relevant to computational social science are well summarized in [ 9 ] and [ 12 ] . Despite such conceptual advances , the framework has been merely applied to analyzing very few scenarios of online phenomena . Rare examples include evolution of cooperation in P2P systems [ 26 , 11 ] , reputation effects in online auctions [ 8 ] and resource allocation problems in computer networks [ 16 ] .
Experiment Theory driven predictions may deviate from actual human behavior . In order to ensure relevance of theoretical predictions as empirical models of behavior , we need to study actual human behavior in a controlled setting . Most experimental studies relevant to the present project are from
51 psychology and economics . In the course of conducting laboratory experiments , social scientists realized the difference between theoretical predictions and actual human behavior . Famous examples include loss aversion and inter temporal discounts . Without an exception , as a system of cognitively biased individuals who do not follow mathematical simplicity , experimental results from traditional disciplines must be seriously incorporated when explaining online social datasets . A recently introduced promising approach is using the Internet as a platform for recruiting human subjects and conducting experiments . Several studies incorporate randomized experimental techniques to gauge the extent of peer effects on social networks [ 2 ] , and some other studies use online labor markets to observe the patterns of strategic interactions among experimental subjects [ 22 ] .
Measurement and Observation Many studies in computer science community aims to measure and observe social interactions on the Internet . In order to properly quantify what we want to know , researchers have developed analytic techniques for characterizing structural and dynamic properties of the phenomena and extracting information from them , suited for massive web data analysis . In particular , the empirical estimation techniques incorporate data mining , natural language processing , machine learning and graph analysis algorithms . By utilizing such techniques many interesting observations are reported [ 15 ] . However , these studies often had unclear connections with theoretical insights and analytic models of human behavior , suggesting anecdotal evidence rather than theory driven explanations of human behavior . As a consequence , systemic understanding of online social interactions has been difficult .
3 . PROPOSED APPROACH
The core value of the present approach is in that we assemble theoretical insights and empirical evidence to promote practical management of social systems . First , I propose theoretical models , which simultaneously incorporate rational and bounded rational models of mind . Second , such assumptions and predictions are tested in controlled experimental environments . Third , Internet field experiments and observational studies are conducted in order to obtain external validity of the results derived from the experiments . Finally , I suggest that the integrated results can be used to design incentive structure for nudging users to desired directions and provide welfare relevant criteria for platform design .
4 . METHODOLOGY
While heavily relied on sociological theories of action , existing measures of social interactions lack autonomous explanation on why someone does what . For example , despite the fact that peer effect has become the most common subject of research in social network analysis on massive web data , motivations and utility behind the observed statistics remain vague . Moreover , while algorithmic approaches for influence maximization exist [ 17 ] , we are uncertain how a commonly used node centrality measure represents the importance of a person or a relationship with respect to influence in a given context .
The connections between individual behavior , collective outcomes , and unobserved decision process must base upon rigorous and parsimonious theories of human behavior . Among possible forms of such theories , the most convincing and useful approach for quantitative research is mathematical modeling .
Predictions of theoretical models are tested with behavioral experiments in controlled environments . Computer and Internet platforms are actively incorporated . Obtained results are expected to provide information that is not entailed in the theoretical studies .
The proposed approach aims to introduce theoretical models in connection with experimental and observational studies on the Internet . In addition to the traditional economic modeling of human behavior , as psychological reasoning of human agents do not guide to ideal choices , theories of learning and refined equilibrium concepts are actively incorporated from evolutionary game theory and theoretical ecology .
5 . RESULTS
At the current stage of the project , several theoretical and experimental studies are conducted . The ultimate goal is to utilize the present understanding of human behavior to explain and predict massive social interactions on the Internet , and to propose suggestions for future Internet development . In this note , I highlight two classes of network node centrality measures in a strategic perspective . First , I show that individual best response action in a particular type of simultaneous move game corresponds to a general form of recursive centrality measure . Second , I present results from a laboratory experiment showing the impact of partner selection on evolution of cooperation and how this dynamics explains k core differentiation of nodes in temporally evolving networks . Additionally , I propose a bipartite network formation model which aims to explain mutualistic cooperation between services and platforms , or users and services . 5.1 Game Theory : Strategic Foundation of Re cursive Node Centrality
An extant number of research utilize centrality measures as their key variables to explain structural substrates of network dynamics . However many studies fail to present how their theoretical constructs relate such quantitative indices . Among popular indices of social network analysis , I focus on recursive node centrality measures which include the famous Bonacich , Katz , and PageRank centrality . As widely recognized , these measures have been in great success for link predictions and recommendations in web search engines . While initially proposed to gauge the extent of influence one can exert in a network , strategic foundation of such measures has been only recently approached [ 4 ] .
In order to examine strategic origin of recursive centrality measures , I study a non cooperative model of induced preference , where external actors aim to influence internal actors while connected internal pairs have conformity bias . Assuming a quadratic utility function in an ideological or preference space , a formal model of external influence under internal conformism consists of an internal member ’s utility function , ui : ai × a → R which is defined as : ui = −π
Bik(ai − bk)2 − ( 1 − π )
Aij(ai − aj)2 ( 1 ) k∈M j∈N
π 1−π indicates the relative importance of the total where amount of external influence over the total amount of in
52 ternal influence , internal interaction matrix A , external influence matrix B , external actor ’s preferred position vector , b , and internal actor ’s induced position vector , a , and an external member ’s utility function ,
( ai − bk)2 − ck ,
( 2 ) uk = − 1 N i∈N Bik ) ∝ i∈N where ck = f ( i∈N Bik , indicating that the amount of investment external actor k pays to have influence over internal actors increases as his volume of connections grows up .
I first analyze a simultaneous move n player game where external actor preference is given and only internal actors make decisions . When individual best response actions ( Nash equilibria ) are assumed , internal actors’ positions follow a typical form of recursive centrality measure , a∗ = ( I − ( 1 − π)A)−1πBb . Notably , this equilibrium deviates from utilitarian welfare maximization equilibria . So called price of anarchy , the deviation of aggregate utility in Nash equilbria from global maximum aggregate utility value , is examined . I proceed to examine strategic incentives of external actors in a sequential move game , where external actors move first and then internal actors move in response to the determined B matrix , presenting implications for optimal targeting strategy for those wanting to perturb a socially interconnected system . In this game , cost effective investment strategy of external actors is shown . A striking finding is i∈N Bik ) , an external actor ’s utility increases as one ’s targets’ connection profiles become less redundant . that , over a large domain of f (
This finding offers an answer to a puzzle in political clientelism why both friendly and counteractive lobbying are prevalent [ 7 ] . When organized interests aim to buy a legislature by purchasing leadership , they target a combination of actors , not based upon aggregate individual centrality , but those having the most diverse set of partners .
My model can serve as a basic framework for analyzing massive herding behavior in social networking services . For example , this model can illustrate what happens if a celebrity or a politician announces support for a particular policy on Facebook . Also my model suggests an optimal dispersion strategy for a viral marketer for selecting initial adopters of a product . As the model depicts people ’s preference on a continuum , this model is naturally connected with multidimensional scaling techniques for choice data . 5.2 Evolutionary Game Theory : Social Learning Model for Mutualistic Network Formation
An important , yet under investigated form of interactions in the social network community is multi mode networks , where multiple types of nodes interact with different types . Especially , mutualistic interactions between two sets of species ( eg animals and plants ) have been extensively studied in ecology , as it is related to the problem of biodiversity and ecosystem management [ 5 , 6 ] . Such characterization was also recently applied to explain the dynamics of man made organizations [ 24 ] .
On the Internet , mutualistic interactions are pervasive . From platforms to services and services to users , many interactions can be modeled as interactions between two sets of actors . Commonly , actors in the same set compete with each other while actors of different types help each other .
Such interactions create recursive and complicated dynamics of wealth transfer and growth .
While the majority of models of mutualistic networks assume passive dynamics in fixed networks . Our research incorporates evolutionary game theoretic formulation to model partner selection dynamics and mutualistic network formation . The results show that empirically observed high network nestedness ( low degree animals interact with high degree plants ) and dispersed degree distribution are only obtained when people learn others’ behavior on the basis of concave utility subject to payoff .
This result suggests that risk averse social learning plays a fundamental role in producing realistic mutualistic interactions . However , we are unaware of mutualistic network strcuture between users and multiple Internet service platforms . Most previous research studies user interactions in a single service platform . While it is suspected that userservice network would also exhibit nested structure , as less active users are expected to use the most popular services , our model suggests that platform and service migration of users would involve risk averse assessment of newly introduced items . 5.3 Laboratory Experiment : Generative Mech anism of Social Capital Entails k core Differentiation
Despite its popularity in social science research , social capital has hardly had a clear cut definition . The diverse set of perspectives , that have been suggested by scholars from various disciplines , has yielded an increasing ambiguity in its concept [ 21 ] . As a result , existing research commonly incorporates derivatives that are argued to be consequential products of social capital rather than utilizing a direct measurement theory .
Sohn , Choi and Ahn [ 27 ] conduct laboratory experiments , in which human subjects play multi round pairwise prisoner ’s dilemma game with partner selection option , to trace the generative mechanism of social capital . We show that a popular metric in graph theory called k core takes a fundamental role in characterizing the generative mechanism of social capital . Temporally stable high core associations correspond to enduring communities embedding social capital , and emerging community prosperity is associated with structural evolution of the interaction networks .
This research has important implications to relationship maintenance on the Internet , which can be explained by strategic linking behavior of individuals . As shown by user survey and observational studies of unfollow dynamics in Twitter [ 13 , 14 ] , reciprocity centers the utility of maintaining a relationship . Since the interactions between reciprocity concerning individuals can be modeled by a non cooperative game , strategic models of relationship maintenance can serve as a foundational approach for understanding empirical dynamics . As the asset value of a social networking service embeds in the number of connections , and well maintained interconnections breed further recruitment of new users , our finding has a core implication in platform design and community management . 6 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK The fundamental value of the present approach is in dissecting the utility of creating prosocial interactions . Ultimately , this effort is linked to formalizing incentive struc
53 ture in web platforms and understanding what motivates people to participate and cooperate in collective problem solving [ 10 , 19 ] . In order to achieve this goal , I develop parsimonious mathematical models suited for different strategic scenarios , and conduct online behavioral experiments to test the models in controlled environments . For example , such endeavor help us know what makes certain communities vibrant . Asking whether rewarding avid participators or punishing uninterested users is efficient for facilitating community prosperity [ 23 ] .
While not extensively covered in this note , proper measurement and analysis of complex datasets always demand computationally efficient , and at the same time , accurate methodological tools . My project also involves technical development of graph analysis methods . The ongoing research includes suggesting a fast and unbiased aggregation schemes for network autocorrelation models and understanding factors determining commonality and bifurcation of graph clustering algorithms [ 28 ] .
To conclude , this project proposes a unified framework for computational social science research by viewing strategic interaction as a key component of social phenomena . The current stage of the project requires incorporation of observational evidence for verification of theoretical and experimental results . In particular , specific tasks include : 1 ) tracing temporally varying community association and analyzing their structural properties ; 2 ) measurement of cooperativeness of an individual user ; 3 ) mapping individual cultural and political preference in a latent ideological space , and quantifying peer effects in dynamic data ; 4 ) constructing mutualistic networks between users and services , and services and platforms .
Finally , in order to create socially just and efficient Internet communities , these theoretical and empirical resources should guide us to suggestions for what is good and fair . The classic problem of diversity and growth is a suitable example . “ The rich get richer ” is a characteristic phrase capturing a host of phenomena observed throughout the evolution of the Internet industry . Facilitated by platform standardization and coordination motives among users to improve communication efficiency , products and ideas are likely to converge . A fundamental question linked to this phenomenon is the paradox of diversity as it creates both problems and opportunities [ 20 ] . Simultaneous presence of social integration and population diversity is a difficult goal to achieve . On the Internet , people are connected , yet they are mostly connected to similar others [ 1 ] . Also most people use a very few number of platforms yet , at the same time , new services are introduced every day . Coupled with the problem of ecological diversity , thus with the mutualism study introduced above , our efforts should let us predict consequences of the current form of Internet dynamics including this example , and to what extent Internet policy can shape the future of this complex system .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported by Next Generation Information Computing Development Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea(NRF ) funded by the Ministry of Science , ICT & Future Plannig ( NRF 2012M3C4A7033342 ) .
8 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] L . A . Adamic and N . Glance . The political blogosphere and the 2004 us election : divided they blog . In Proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on Link discovery , pages 36–43 . ACM , 2005 .
[ 2 ] S . Aral , L . Muchnik , and A . Sundararajan .
Distinguishing influence based contagion from homophily driven diffusion in dynamic networks . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 106(51):21544–21549 , 2009 .
[ 3 ] R . M . Axelrod . The complexity of cooperation :
Agent based models of competition and collaboration . Princeton University Press , 1997 .
[ 4 ] C . Ballester , A . Calv´o Armengol , and Y . Zenou . Who ’s who in networks . wanted : the key player . Econometrica , 74(5):1403–1417 , 2006 .
[ 5 ] J . Bascompte , P . Jordano , C . J . Meli´an , and J . M .
Olesen . The nested assembly of plant–animal mutualistic networks . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 100(16):9383–9387 , 2003 .
[ 6 ] J . Bascompte , P . Jordano , and J . M . Olesen .
Asymmetric coevolutionary networks facilitate biodiversity maintenance . Science , 312(5772):431–433 , 2006 .
[ 7 ] A . Bonica . Ideology and interests in the political marketplace . American Journal of Political Science , 2013 .
[ 8 ] C . Dellarocas . The digitization of word of mouth :
Promise and challenges of online feedback mechanisms . Management Science , 49(10):1407–1424 , 2003 .
[ 9 ] D . Easley and J . Kleinberg . Networks , crowds , and markets . Cambridge Univ Press , 2010 .
[ 10 ] J . H . Fowler and N . A . Christakis . Cooperative behavior cascades in human social networks . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 107(12):5334–5338 , 2010 .
[ 11 ] P . Golle , K . Leyton Brown , I . Mironov , and
M . Lillibridge . Incentives for sharing in peer to peer networks . In Electronic Commerce , pages 75–87 . Springer , 2001 .
[ 12 ] M . O . Jackson . Social and economic networks .
Princeton University Press , 2010 .
[ 13 ] H . Kwak , H . Chun , and S . Moon . Fragile online relationship : a first look at unfollow dynamics in twitter . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 1091–1100 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 14 ] H . Kwak , S . B . Moon , and W . Lee . More of a receiver than a giver : Why do people unfollow in twitter ? In ICWSM , 2012 .
[ 15 ] D . Lazer , A . S . Pentland , L . Adamic , S . Aral , A . L . Barabasi , D . Brewer , N . Christakis , N . Contractor , J . Fowler , M . Gutmann , et al . Life in the network : the coming age of computational social science . Science , 323(5915):721 , 2009 .
[ 16 ] R . T . Ma , D . M . Chiu , J . Lui , V . Misra , and
D . Rubenstein . Internet economics : The use of shapley value for isp settlement . IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking ( TON ) , 18(3):775–787 , 2010 .
[ 17 ] R . Narayanam and Y . Narahari . A shapley value based approach to discover influential nodes in
54 social networks . IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering , ( 99):1–18 , 2010 .
[ 18 ] M . A . Nowak . Five rules for the evolution of cooperation . Science , 314(5805):1560–1563 , 2006 .
[ 19 ] E . Ostrom . Governing the commons : The evolution of institutions for collective action . Cambridge University Press , 1990 .
[ 20 ] S . E . Page . The Difference : How the Power of
Diversity Creates Better Groups , Firms , Schools , and Societies ( New Edition ) . Princeton University Press , 2008 .
[ 21 ] R . D . Putnam . Bowling alone : The collapse and revival of American community . Simon and Schuster , 2001 .
[ 22 ] D . G . Rand . The promise of mechanical turk : How online labor markets can help theorists run behavioral experiments . Journal of Theoretical Biology , 299:172–179 , 2012 .
[ 23 ] D . G . Rand , A . Dreber , T . Ellingsen , D . Fudenberg , and M . A . Nowak . Positive interactions promote public cooperation . Science , 325(5945):1272–1275 , 2009 .
[ 24 ] S . Saavedra , F . Reed Tsochas , and B . Uzzi . A simple model of bipartite cooperation for ecological and organizational networks . Nature , 457(7228):463–466 , 2008 .
[ 25 ] T . C . Schelling . The strategy of conflict . Harvard
University Press , 1960 .
[ 26 ] J . Shneidman and D . C . Parkes . Rationality and self interest in peer to peer networks . In Peer to Peer Systems II , pages 139–148 . Springer , 2003 .
[ 27 ] Y . Sohn , J K Choi , and T . Ahn . Core periphery segregation in evolving prisoner ’s dilemma networks . arXiv:1105.0515 , 2011 .
[ 28 ] Y . Sohn , J . Ju , H . Kwak , and S . Moon . Exploring the solution sapce of community detection methods . In STATPHYS , 2013 .
55
