NTCIR Temporalia : A Test Collection for Temporal
Information Access Research
Hideo Joho
Research Center for Knowledge Communities , Faculty of Library , Information and Media Science , University of Tsukuba , Japan hideo@slistsukubaacjp
Adam Jatowt Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo ku
606 8501 Kyoto , Japan adam@dlkuiskyoto uacjp
Roi Blanco
Yahoo! Research Barcelona , Spain roi@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Time is one of the key constructs of information quality . Following an upsurge of research in temporal aspects of information search , it has become clear that the community needs standardized evaluation benchmark for fostering research in Temporal Information Access . This paper introduces Temporalia ( Temporal Information Access ) , a new pilot task run at NTCIR 11 to create re usable datasets for those who are interested in temporal aspects of search technologies , and discusses its task design in detail .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ]
General Terms Measurement , Theory .
Keywords Data challenge , NTCIR , Temporal IR
1 . INTRODUCTION Temporal Information Retrieval ( eg , [ 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 ] has been gaining a lot of interest in IR and related research communities . It can be defined as a subset of document retrieval in which time plays crucial role in estimating document relevance . Our recent analysis [ 5 ] suggests that although many users search for recent ( fresh ) information , a good proportion of them also seek for information about past incidents as well as future incidents . Given the fact that time plays crucial role in estimating information relevance and validity we believe that successful search engines must consider temporal aspects of information in greater detail . Otherwise a mismatch can occur resulting in poor user satisfaction . Consider a query with future focused intent such as “ Summer Olympics ” for which search engine returns results about the past Olympics , or query about high recency topics ( eg , “ Kyoto weather ” , “ Facebook stock price ” ) that returns pages with obsolete information .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579044 temporal is hosted by
Temporal Query Intent Classification ( TQIC ) subtask Temporal Information Retrieval ( TIR ) subtask
Although there are several evaluation tasks that involve search and filtering of information ( eg , TDT , NTCIR GeoTime , TREC Temporal Summarization ) , nonce are designed to measure the performance of search applications across categories of temporal information needs such as Past , Recent , Seasonal , and Future ( cf . [ 7 ] ) in a systematic way . We thus propose a challenge called “ Temporal Information Access ” ( Temporalia ) that establishes common grounds for designing and analyzing time aware information access systems.1 The objective of this task is to systematize various requirements in Temporal IR and offer a standardized challenge based on which competing systems can be compared and analyzed . Temporalia the 11th NTCIR Workshop on Evaluation of Information Access Technologies ( NTCIR 11).2 It offers two subtasks to address temporal information access technologies as follows : · · TQIC subtasks aims at classifying queries into four predetermined temporal classes based on their implicit or explicit temporal intent . This task should be useful challenge for any research that aims to recognize underlying temporal aspects of queries . With successful solutions , search engines could then treat temporal queries accordingly to their underlying temporal classes . According to a study performed on AOL query dataset [ 9 ] , about 1.5 % of queries are explicit temporal queries , that is , they contain some temporal expressions . Examples of such queries are : “ Germany 1920s ” , “ Olympics 2012 ” or “ top movies 1990s ” . Considering the popularity and importance of Web search in our lives , this rate amounts to quite a huge number of searches . In addition , there are also implicit temporal queries ( eg , “ Einstein childhood ” , “ WWII major battles ” , “ USA debt size ” , “ Rio de Janeiro Olympics ” ) whose rate has not been measured so far . The community has already embarked on the challenge of categorizing queries based on their temporalities ( see for example [ 3,4,8] ) . On the other hand , TIR subtask focuses on ranking documents within the prepared collection for different temporal query classes . In such ranking both the topical and temporal relevance should be considered . There is a large body of research in ranking documents for temporal queries ( eg , [ 2,6] ) , hence , we believe
1 At the time of writing this paper , 20 teams have registered . 2 http://researchniiacjp/ntcir/ntcir 11/
845 there should be significant interest in this particular task . Note that both TQIC and TIR are independent of each other and thus interested teams can choose one of the tasks or participate in both of them . The remainder of this paper is structured as follows . In the next section we describe other related tasks focusing on their differences from Temporalia pilot task . Section 3 describes both TQIC and TIR subtasks , while Section 4 contains overview of the data collection . We outline the task schedule in Section 5 and then conclude the paper in Section 6 .
2 . RELATED TASKS TREC Temporal Summarization and TREC Knowledge Base Acceleration are perhaps the closest tasks to Temporalia . TREC Temporal Summarization task3 ( TempSum ) is composed of two subtasks : Sequential Update Summarization and Value Tracking . The task of Sequential Update Summarization is to find timely , sentence level , reliable , relevant and non redundant updates about developing events . Value tracking aims at tracking values of event related attributes that are of high importance to the event . Examples are the number of fatalities or financial impact . Both subtasks have clear temporal character since the updates have to be timely and relevant . Their outcome is then related to the subtask of ranking documents for the “ recency ” class of queries ( as in Temporal Information Retrieval subtask of Temporalia ) . However , in the case of TempSum , the scope is limited to the information about a concrete past event or to a particular type of attribute like information such as a numerical value , etc . Also , the returned information needs to be short and non redundant . TIR subtask in Temporalia , on the other hand , can take any category of temporal query as input . The results are in the form of ranked list of documents for which neither redundancy nor text length plays any special role . Hence , the overlap of TemSum and Temporalia is rather minimal . TREC Knowledge Base Acceleration task4 ( KBA ) is a task for filtering a large stream of text to find documents that can help update knowledge bases like Wikipedia or Freebase . It is composed of two subtasks : Cumulative Citation Recommendation and Streaming Slot Filling . The former is about filtering documents that are worth citing in a profile of selected entities ( profile could be a Wikipedia page of the entity ) . It does not add any requirement on temporality neither novelty of the content . On the other hand , the Streaming Slot Filling tracks the attributes and relations of a selected entity over time . As the organizers state , it virtually “ allows the target entity to "move" as accumulated content implies modifications to the attributes , relations , and free text associated with ” an entity . Thus , again , like in the case of TempSum , the temporal information need is in the form of the recency requirement put on documents related to a particular entity such as a person or organization . Space and time are commonly treated as orthogonal or parallel dimensions . GeoCLEF 2008 task5 required to categorize queries into geographic queries and non geographic queries . In a similar fashion , in Temporalia the query categorization task consists of
3 http://wwwtrec tsorg/ 4 http://trec kbaorg/trec kba 2013shtml 5 http://wwwuni hildesheimde/geoclef/ deciding whether query is temporal or non temporal . GeoCLEF also looked deeper into components of geographic queries differentiating typical three subparts : “ where ” , “ geo relation ” and “ what ” components . The “ what ” component is of a map type ( eg , river , beach , mountain , and monuments ) , yellow page type ( eg , businesses or organizations , like hotels , restaurants , hospitals ) or information type . In contrast to GeoCLEF , in Temporalia we provide deeper , hierarchy of query categorization proposing diverse query types such as recency , past related or future related queries . We then set up the second subtask consisting of ranking documents for diverse temporal query types . Finally , the GeoTime task6 aims at answering mixed geo temporal information needs represented by questions such as “ When and where did George Kennan die ? ” or “ When and where were the last three Winter Olympics held ? ” The temporal answer is in the form of date or period/interval type variable . In Temporalia we focus on more diverse types of temporal search needs ( eg , ones for which freshness and timeliness of answers play key role and so on ) .
3 . SUBTASKS 3.1 Temporal Query Intent Classification TQIC subtask asks participants to classify a given query string to one of temporal classes . Figure 1 shows the hierarchy of query classes on which TQIC is based .
Figure 1 . Hierarchy of query classes .
In particular , participating teams will be asked to classify the query into one of the following classes : past , recency , future and atemporal . Below we define conceptual definitions of individual query classes . Past query : query about past events , whose search results are not expected to change much along with time passage . Recency query : query about recent things , whose search results are expected to be timely and up to date . The information contained in the search results usually changes quickly along with the time passage . Note that this type of query usually refers to events that happened in near past or at the present time . On the contrary , the “ past ” query category tends to refer to events in relatively distant past . Future query : query about predicted or scheduled events , the search results of which should contain future related information . Atemporal query : query without any clear temporal intent ( ie , its returned search results are not expected to be related to time ) . Navigational queries are considered to be atemporal . Table 1 shows examples of queries from each category .
6 http://metadataberkeleyedu/NTCIR GeoTime/
846 Table 1 . Example queries for TQIC subtask7 .
Query example price hike in bangladesh 2008 Who Was Martin Luther when did the titanic sink Yuri Gagarin Cause of Death History of Coca Cola apple stock price Number of Millionaires in USA time in london Trendy Plus Size Clothing Did the Pirates Win Today 2013 MLB Playoff Schedule release date for ios7 College Baseball Regional Projections disney prices 2014 long term weather forecast blood pressure monitor distance from earth to sun how to start a conversation New York Times lose weight quickly
Query category Past Past Past Past Past Recency Recency Recency Recency Recency Future Future Future Future Future Atemporal Atemporal Atemporal Atemporal Atemporal
Participants will receive a set of query strings and query submitting date , and will be asked to develop a system to classify each of the query strings to one of the four temporal classes . As this problem rather requires different kinds of knowledge ( eg , historical information or information on planned events ) , the participants will be allowed to use any external resources to complete the TQIC subtask as long as the details of external resource usage are described in their report . Each participating team is asked to submit a temporal class ( past , recency , future , or atemporal ) for each of the queries . The performance of submitted runs will be measured by the number of queries with correct temporal classes divided by the total number of queries . We will provide the breakdown of the performance based on temporal classes .
3.2 Temporal Information Retrieval TIR subtask asks participants to retrieve a set of documents in response to a search topic that incorporates time factor . In addition to a typical search topic description ( ie , title , description , and sub topics ) , TIR search topic description will contain a query submitting date information to indicate the relationship between the query and searcher . This subtask requires indexing our document collection ( see Section 4 ) .
7 Query submitting date is assumed to be on Feb 28 , 2013
GMT+0:00 for all queries shown in Table 1 .
We show in Table 2 example search topic with its corresponding temporal questions ( past , recency , future and atemporal ) .
Table 2 . Example topics for TIR subtask .
Future question Atemporal question What are the names of main actors and
Title Description
Past question Recency question
Search date Title Description
Past question
Future question
I would
Girl with the Dragon Tattoo I've recently watched a film called Girl with the Dragon Tattoo , and really liked it . Therefore , to gather like information about the movie . How did the casting of the film develop ? What did the recent reviews say about the film ? Is there any plan about its sequel ? actresses of the film ? 28 Feb 2013 GMT+0:00 Father's Day I am from a country where Father's Day is not a common custom , and I would like to learn more about the Father's day and its relation to the role of father in society . What is the history and origin of the Father's day ? during Father's day ? What is the future outlook for the problem of fatherlessness and how the father's role is supposed to change ? . 1 Mar 2013 GMT+0:00
Recency question What famous persons has lately done
Search date
Participants are asked to submit the top 100 documents for each of temporal questions per topic ( ie , top 100 documents for past question , another 100 for recency question , etc ) The retrieval effectiveness will be evaluated by the precision at 20 for each of the temporal questions . Same as in TQIC subtask , we will provide the breakdown of the performance across temporal questions .
Internet Memory Foundation 9 . The collection
4 . DOCUMENT COLLECTION NTCIR 11 Temporalia uses a document corpus , called “ LivingKnowledge news and blogs annotated subcollection ” , constructed by the LivingKnowledge project8 and distributed by the is approximately 20GB uncompressed and over 5GB zipped in size . It spans from May 2011 to March 2013 and contains around 3.8M documents collected from about 1500 different blogs and news sources . The data is split into 970 files , named after the date of that day and some information about its sources ( there might be more than one file per day ) . Each file contains a number of text documents . For each document the following information is available ( See Figure 2 ) . The <doc id> refers to a unique document identifier in the
8 http://livingknowledgeeuroparchiveorg/ 9 http://internetmemory.org/
847 Figure 2 . Example of document from the provided collection . inside the tag , for instance collection . The host contains the hostname the text was pulled from , date is the publishing data of the document , url is the URL the text was pulled from , sourcerss is the rss address that was accessed to retrieve the page , and finally , title is the title of the page . Between the <text> tags , there ’s the content of the page . This collection has been automatically tagged with different semantic annotations ( see [ 8 ] for a more detailed description of how the annotations are produced ) . In particular , we provide three kinds of annotations : sentence splitting , named entities , and time expressions . Sentences are surrounded by <SE> tags whereas named entities are surrounded by <E> tags . Entity types are <E included type="E:ORGANIZATION:CORPORATION">YouWalkAway.com </E> . Time expressions are surrounded by <T> tags . For example , <T val="2012">the end of 2012</T> contains a val element referring to the estimated point in time the annotation is referring to . Time expressions in text are of course directly useful for any time related search or mining tasks . Entities , on the other hand , can be used indirectly via entity linking procedure with external databases such as Wikipedia that are rich in metadata including time related aspects or with timestamped external document collections . Both time expressions and named entities should also constitute good the collection on event level ( eg , event detection or event linking ) should they be required . An example of document in the provided collection can be found in Figure 2 . Finally , it should be emphasized that the dataset ( both document collection and query/topic data ) generated by Temporalia will be released to interested research groups after the NTCIR 11 workshop . for procedures manipulating features
5 . SCHEDULE Temporalia at NTCIR 11 will run in the following schedule ( see Table 3 ) . As can be seen , we have a two stage schedule for task participants to test and develop their systems in the dry run period , and to formally evaluate the performance in the formal run period .
Table 3 . Schedule of NTCIR 11 Temporalia .
Document collection release Release of dry run topics/queries Deadline for dry run submissions Return of dry run results Release of formal run topics/queries Deadline for formal run submissions Evaluation results release Early overview draft release Participant papers due All camera ready copy due NTCIR 11 Conference at Tokyo
Jan 05 , 2014 Jan 23 , 2014 Mar 31 , 2014 Apr 15 , 2014 May 1 , 2014 Jun 30 , 2014 Aug 1 , 2014 Aug 1 , 2014 Sep 1 , 2014 Nov 1 , 2014 Dec 09 12 , 2014
6 . CONCLUSIONS This paper presented our ongoing project to create a test collection for Temporal Information Access Research in the context of NTCIR 11 . This is a pilot task and we welcome any feedback on the design and methodology of test collections that can facilitate the research on temporal information access . For the details of the task and latest information ( that ’s temporal ) , please visit our website.10
10 https://sitesgooglecom/site/ntcirtemporalia/ ( Main ) http://ntcirniiacjp/Temporalia/ ( Mirror )
848 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The first author was supported in part by MEXT Grant in Aid for Young Scientists B ( #24700239 ) . The second author was supported in part by MEXT Grant in Aid for Young Scientists B ( #22700096 ) and by the JST research promotion program Sakigake : “ Analyzing Collective Memory and Developing Methods for Knowledge Extraction from Historical Documents ” . The authors also thank to the NTCIR project at NII for supporting our activity . Any opinions , findings , and conclusions described here are the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the sponsors . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] O . Alonso , R . Baeza Yates , J . Strötgen , M . and Gertz .
Temporal information retrieval : Challanges and opportunities . In TWAW 2011 Workshop , 2011 .
[ 2 ] K . Berberich , S . Bedathur , O . Alonso , and G . Weikum . A Language Modeling Approach for Temporal Information Needs . In ECIR 2010 , pages 13–25 , 2012 .
[ 3 ] R . Campos , A . Mário Jorge , G . Dias , C . Nunes .
Disambiguating Implicit Temporal Queries by Clustering
Top Relevant Dates in Web Snippets . Web Intelligence 2012 .
[ 4 ] R . Jones and F . Diaz . Temporal profiles of queries . ACM
Transactions on Information Systems , 25(3):656–678 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] H . Joho , A . , Jatowt , and R . , Blanco . ( 2013 ) . A Survey of
Temporal Web Search Experience ” . In : Proceedings of the TempWeb 2013 Workshop WWW 2013 .
[ 6 ] N . Kanhabua , and K . Nørvåg . Determining Time of Queries for Re Ranking Search Results . ECDL 2010 .
[ 7 ] A . Khodaei and O . Alonso . Temporally Aware Signals for
Social Search , SIGIR 2012 Workshop on Time aware Information Access ( #TAIA2012 ) .
[ 8 ] M.Matthews , P . Tolchinsky , R . Blanco , J . Atserias , P . Mika and H . Zaragoza . Searching through time in the New York Times . HCIR , 2010 .
[ 9 ] D . Metzler , R . Jones , F . Peng , and R . Zhang . Improving search relevance for implicitly temporal queries . SIGIR 2009 .
[ 10 ] S . Nunes , C . Ribeiro , and G . David . Use of Temporal
Expressions in Web Search . ECIR2008 .
849
