ACRec : A Co authorship based Random Walk Model for
Academic Collaboration Recommendation
Jing Li , Feng Xia , Wei Wang , Zhen Chen , Nana Yaw Asabere , Huizhen Jiang
School of Software , Dalian University of Technology , Dalian 116620 , China fxia@acmorg
ABSTRACT Recent academic procedures have depicted that work involving scientific research tends to be more prolific through collaboration and cooperation among researchers and research groups . On the other hand , discovering new collaborators who are smart enough to conduct joint research work is accompanied with both difficulties and opportunities . One notable difficulty as well as opportunity is the big scholarly data . In this paper , we satisfy the demand of collaboration recommendation through co authorship in an academic network . We propose a random walk model using three academic metrics as basics for recommending new collaborations . Each metric is studied through mutual paper co authoring information and serves to compute the link importance such that a random walker is more likely to visit the valuable nodes . Our experiments on DBLP dataset show that our approach can improve the precision , recall rate and coverage rate of recommendation , compared with other state of the art approaches .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval Information filtering
Keywords Big scholarly data , collaboration recommendation , link importance , random walk model
1 .
INTRODUCTION
We are witnessing an epoch making proliferation of information available on the Internet . Meanwhile , information overload prevents users from acquiring relevant information . To tackle this problem , the emergence of recommendation systems and techniques is now playing a critical part of the contemporary internet world by bringing people closer to the resources they really need .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579034
Figure 1 : Extraction from a Binary Graph to a Simple Graph .
In the context of academic social networks , researchers approach big scholarly data problems such as how to obtain information pertaining to a valuable collaborator . Previous studies have confirmed that researchers or research groups with well connected cooperation networks tend to be more prolific as well as productive scholars are more inclined to cooperation [ 8 ] . Thus , it is imperative and vital for researchers to get acquainted with new valuable collaborators in academic social networks [ 4 ] . To satisfy these kinds of demands , for example making friends in academic social networks , many methods have been proposed to suggest potential new links , including link prediction and link recommendation [ 14 , 15 ] .
A social network ( SN ) can be described in an abstract way , as a graph of nodes ( such as users or groups ) that have certain relationships , for example , friendship and coauthorship . In traditional SN , link prediction and link recommendation methods have made significant improvements of link creations . A feature in SN called ” People You May Know ” has proved to be of merit in recommending friends based on a FOF ( friend of friends ) method [ 17 ] . Besides , typical SN systems usually recommend friends that the users already know offline based on social relationship [ 2 ] . However , in the academic context , social relationship has a different meaning considering some academic backgrounds ( eg , research interests , co authoring information , and academic reputation ) . Therefore , recommending researchers in academic social networks ( based on big scholarly data ) is an increasingly important topic . Our focus in this paper is on Academic Social Networks ( ASN ) where social links are formed by certain academic ties . For instance , two researchers from the same research institute will be connected for the social tie of same affiliation . Within ASN , a co authorship social network is an extraordinary social network due to the
1209 academic property of co authorship , which is a simple graph evolving from the author paper binary graph ( as shown in Fig 1 ) . In the research world , suggesting new links can motivate researchers to build new collaborative relationships when they consider writing a new paper , then help them acquire papers of high quality . Since co authorship social networks are of intrinsic collaboration related values , we present an academic random walk model for collaboration recommendation accordingly .
In summary , we make the following contributions in this paper : 1 ) To deal with scientific collaborator recommendation in the context of big scholarly data , we develop a model based on random walk with restart that learns how to bias a random walk on the network so that it can visit the potential collaborators with more probability than the others . 2 ) In order to improve the recommendation quality and accuracy , we propose to define the link importance by exploiting three specific academic network metrics including coauthor order , collaboration time points ( ie the latest collaboration time ) and frequency of collaboration ( ie collaboration times ) . 3 ) We conduct extensive experiments on DBLP dataset to evaluate the performance of the proposed solution in various scenarios as compared against the basic model of RWR . Promising results are presented and analyzed .
2 . RELATED WORK
Social networks have been studied for decades in an effort to comprehend the relationships between people and detect patterns in such interactions . Recently much research work has been done on how to utilize social network information to improve recommender systems [ 4 , 6 ] . For instance , Ma et al . [ 11 ] elaborated on how the incorporation of social network information is beneficial in improving recommender systems . Perugini et al . [ 13 ] suggested that recommendation has an intrinsic social element that is intended to connect people . In contrast to previous work in traditional friend recommendation field , there is also some other research work on collaboration recommandation . Lopes et al . [ 10 ] considered the researcher ’s publications area and the vector space model to generate collaboration recommendation in academic social network . Besides , co authorship social networks analysis has been studied for a long time , of which there are some positive outcomes in terms of collaboration recommendation . Newman [ 12 ] studied a variety of statistical properties of scientific collaboration networks and found out that researchers in different disciplines have different numbers of collaborators on average .
Considering combining the network structure with the features of nodes [ 1 ] , some methods ( for example link prediction and link recommendation ) based on Random Walk with Restart ( RWR ) have been proposed in the state of the art literature . RWR provided a good way to measure how close related two nodes are in a graph [ 16 ] . In [ 7 ] , Mohsen et al . proposed a random walk model which combined the trustbased and collaborative filtering approaches for recommendation . Fouss et al . [ 5 ] presented a new perspective on characterizing the similarity among elements of a graph .
However , current research either lacks combining the network structure with the features of nodes , or treats the links with equal importance in RWR , neglecting whether the relationship is strong or not . To tackle these drawbacks , we present an academic random walk model for collaboration recommendation in co authorship social networks .
3 . PROBLEM STATEMENT
The problem we define in this work involves proposing a recommender system in a co authoring network to recommend the most valuable collaborators for a particular researcher . Given an undirected co author graph as shown in Fig 1 , a node v denotes a scholar and other nodes compose a set of scholar candidates C that v may create a collaboration link with . We define target nodes set T = ft1 ; : : : ; t2 ; : : : ; tkg to present nodes with which v will create collaboration links in the future , while we take nolink nodes N = fn1 ; : : : ; n2 ; : : : ; nkg to present other nodes with which v does not create links . We label candidate nodes set C = fcig = T U N . Normally , present RWR models usually overlook information about link features because they assume that links among nodes are of the same importance . This is unscientific in academic collaboration networks . Since the relationship between two researchers with only one paper co authored long time ago can’t be compared with the relationships of those who co authored many papers together in a latest period of time . Thus Each edge ( u ; v ) in G should have a corresponding metric vector S(u ; v ) to describe the extent of cooperation strength of the two linked nodes ( eg , how many times u and v have co authored , when the cooperation was last built , and the relationship labeled by author order in the co authored paper ) .
In this paper , we compute the cooperation strengths by analyzing the big data set of scientific literature information which is provided by DBLP . To achieve the goal , we take three most important academic metrics to decide the edge importance . As a result , we develop a co authorship based Random Walk model by taking those cooperation strengths as the the initial random walk transition probabilities . For each particular node , we can run an efficient and effective random walk to recommend a list of the most valuable collaborators .
4 . ACADEMIC COLLABORATION RECOM
MENDATION MODEL
The academic collaboration recommendation model is inspired by the truth that scholars usually desire to cooperate with people who have high academic value . Such people normally have fruitful high quality papers , which can generally be used to represent people ’s academic achievements . Besides , as the RWR model has been proved to be competent for calculating the similarity of nodes in network , we use it as a basic model for the co authorship social networks . And the three metrics we introduced into the network structure is to bias the random walk such that it will more easily traverse to the positive nodes . The detailed process of Academic RWR is described below and the corresponding pseudocode is illustrated in Algorithm 1 .
The structure of Academic RWR is depicted in Fig 2 . The whole collaboration recommendation work can be called as ACRec . Firstly , we extract a collaboration graph based on volumes of co authored paper information . Then , as part of our major contributions , we derive three academic metrics from large scholarly data and then take them to compute each edge strength ( link importance ) , which is going to be utilized to guide a co authorship based random walk model ( also called as Academic RWR ) . When Academic RWR ends , we can generate a top N recommendation list . Below we will detail how to derive the three co authorship
1210 maximum . The relationship between the first two authors is the closest , while the relationship between the first author and the rest of the authors is relatively weak . 4.2 Latest Collaboration Time Point
Previous studies considered social networks to be static . However , academic social networks are time varying , where the links among scholars change over time . For instance , scholars might be more willing to collaborate with who they co authored a paper last month , as compared to the coauthors that they cooperated ten years ago . Hence , we measure the link dynamics using LIMt(pi ; pj ) ( ie Link Importance ) :
LIMt(pi ; pj ) = DCL(pi ; pj ) fi k(t ) where k(t ) is a monotonically increasing function over time . We can measure the impact of different coauthoring time points by adjusting the parameter k(t ) . Here , we define k(t ) as :
( 2 )
( 3 ) k(t ) = ti , t0 tc , t0 where ti is the link formation time ( in year here ) , tc is the current time ( ie 2013 in this paper ) and t0 is the first link formation time . 4.3 Times of Collaboration
In academic social networks , if two authors coauthor a paper , there will be a link between them . Furthermore , these two authors may collaborate many times . However , no previous study has taken into consideration the times of collaboration . Here we measure the impact of different times of coauthoring as follows : t2∑ t2∑ t=t1
= t=t1
LIM[t1;t2](pi ; pj ) =
LIMt(pi ; pj )
DCL(pi ; pj ) fi k(t )
( 4 )
In ( 4 ) , during time period ( t1 ; t2 ) , if there are n links between pi and pj , we will calculate the sum of each link importance . 4.4 The Academic RWR
We have already introduced three co authorship metrics and detailed how to compute link importance above . Now we can take account of using them to conduct a random walk in the co authorship social network for collaboration recommendation . We define the link importance between the nodes pi and pj as wi;j . Then we can acquire the transfer matrix S = ComputeT ransf erM atrix( ) based on the link importance , as described in algorithm 1 . To be more specific we use Pi as the current node and Pj as the next node . S is the set of probabilities for each Pi in G skipping to next node Pj . This can be described in equation ( 5 ) .
Si;j =
Pk2N ( Pi ) Wi;k while N ( Pi ) is the set of neighbors of Pi .
Wi;j
( 5 )
Our random walk starts with initializing the rank score vector M R(0 ) as well as the restart probability vector q as ( 0 , . . . ,1 , . . . ,0 ) . Set target node Pi as 1 while others 0 . The random walk iterates the traversal starting with node Pi
∑
Figure 2 : The Structure of ACRec .
∑ dif f 0 for i 0 to len(Q ) , 1 do
Algorithm 1 ACRec(R , a , MaxIteration , MinDelta ) 1 : S ComputeTransferMatrix( ) 2 : M R0 R 3 : Q R 4 : for k 0 to M axIteration , 1 do 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : 9 : 10 : 11 : 12 : 13 : end for 14 : P redictions predictions(M R ) 15 : return P redictions end for if dif f < M inDelta then
M Rki = ff dif f dif f + ( M Rk , M Rk,1 ) len(Q ) j=0
Si;jM Rj + ( 1 , ff)Qi end if break metrics those are co author order , latest collaboration time point , and times of collaboration respectively . As well , we will present Academic RWR in detail by taking into account the three academic metrics . 4.1 Co author Order
In most cases , there is a list of co authors for one paper . Normally , their contributions to the paper differ from each other . For example , the first and the second authors usually make more contributions than the rest authors . In such cases , the cooperation relationship between the first two authors is competently strong . Moreover , the co author order can reflect cooperation relationship strength . As a general rule , the contribution value is inversely proportional to the co author order , and the weight of relationship is contributed by the relevant two nodes . Therefore , we propose a measure of the link importance based on the coauthor order : DCL ( distance in coauthor list ) .
Consider two nodes pi , pj in a co author list . Assume that j > 1 , and there are more than one author of a paper . We calculate DCL(pi ; pj ) as follows .
 1
1 j i + 1 i + 2 i + 2 j j
2 j 3 j > 3 ; i 3 i > 3
( 1 )
DCL(pi ; pj ) =
According to this definition , it is clear that the DCL value between the first and the second authors is 1.5 , which is the
1211 until it stops walking and assigns each candidate node Pk a stable probability M Rk . Thus we get the rank score vector MR . Then sort the nodes by the corresponding rank score . For a node Pi , the initializing M R(0 ) can be described as :
∑
M R(pi ) =
1 , ff N
+ ff pj2M ( pi )
M R(pj )
L(pj )
( 6 ) where M R represents the rank score vector , M R(p ) is the rank score of node p , which is the quantized importance of node p to the target node . M ( pi ) is the set of nodes incident to node pi , with L(pj ) being the number of all the neighbors of node pj . ff denotes the probability of the walker continuing walking to the next neighbor .
Equation ( 6 ) represents only the step to get the rank score of a node . As for each node in the whole graph , the iterative process is defined by ( 7 ) , which is also a personalized random walk model .
M R(t+1 ) = ffSM R(t ) + ( 1 , ff)q
( 7 )
In ( 7 ) , M R(t ) represents the rank score vector at step t , and q is the row vector , and its form is ( 0 ; : : : ; 1 ; : : : ; 0 ) . In fact , at the beginning , M R(0 ) = q , and the rank score of target node is 1 , while others’ are 0 . S is the transfer matrix , representing the probability for each node to skip to other nodes , as the definition above .
Now we can recommend nodes in the TOP N of the list MR to target nodes . Of course , we can take the nodes out from the TOP N list , which have been in its co author list before recommending .
5 . EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS
We conducted various experiments using data from DBLP [ 9 ] , a computer science bibliography website hosted at University Trier . The datasets we extracted are all in the field of data mining involving 34 journals and 49 conferences altogether . We divided the dataset into two parts : the data before year 2011 as a training set , and others as a testing set .
We designed different experiments to compare ACRec with the basic model of RWR in terms of the aforementioned metrics ( ie precision , recall rate and coverage rate ) . For each experiment , we examine separate aspects , including the influence of different parameters , the effect of the three metrics we count on , and the performance on the best settings . 5.1 Influence of Various Parameters
In this section , we present the exploration on the influence of different parameters , including range of target nodes’ degree , damping coefficient and the number of recommended nodes . When the effect of a parameter is under exploitation , the other parameters are assigned with the default values . After the experiment , we can attain the best values of them for the tests afterwards . 511 Target Nodes’ Degree In academic social network , the degree of strong node is larger than that of weak node . To evaluate the influence of the target nodes’ degree to the experiment , we defined four ranges of degree according to the features of our dataset , and the ranges are shown in Fig 3 .
As shown in Fig 3 , the target node ’s degree has an obvious influence on the metrics . For a practical meaning , it is different to recommend coauthors to those who have different number of collaborators . As for precision in Fig 3(a ) , the larger the target node ’s degree , the better the model performance . Besides , we can see ACRec relatively has higher precision than RWR . At the range of 0 to 10 , ACRec performs similarly to RWR . But when the target node ’s degree gets larger than 30 , the precision can be as high as 18.1 % , much more than RWR . Thus we can conclude that , ACRec has the higher precision for strong node , but not obvious for weak node .
Fig 3(b ) shows the comparison of recall rate with the changing degree . The first two columns are almost the same for recall rate , while the gaps between the two models get larger for other columns , which appears the same as precision . ie when the degree gets larger than 30 , the corresponding recall rate of ACRec is 12.3 % , much higher than that of RWR ( 104 % ) Hence we can claim that ACRec performs better than RWR on recall rate with varying target node ’s degree .
We can see the effect of target nodes’ degree on the coverage rate from Fig 3(c ) . The overall trend of coverage is distinct from the former metrics . The values of both models decrease respectively from 2.3 to 0.95 and 2.3 to 09 The result means that , for weak nodes , the neighbouring network becomes sparser with less valuable information , leading to the random walk going further . And for strong nodes , there are enough valuable nodes to be recommended in neighbouring network .
The reason counting for the phenomenon is also due to that , weak nodes are not so active than strong nodes , and there is not enough valuable information to analyze and make recommendation . The analysis above leads us to the conclusions that ACRec outperforms the RWR and it can make a better recommendation for strong nodes .
512 Damping Coefficient In Random Walk model , there is a damping coefficient . According to the equation ( 3 ) , we know that the value of damping coefficient determines the probability for random walker to jump back to the original node when randomly walking . This parameter has a realistic significance as it controls how far the MR value will be dispersed . In this section , we analyze how the damping coefficient influences the performance of the two algorithms on the three metrics . Generally , as depicted by Fig 4 , ACRec and RWR nearly share the same trend and for the majority of tested data , but ACRec keeps recommending with higher precision , recall rate and coverage rate , compared to the basic RWR .
Fig 4(a ) shows that the precisions generally increase with the growth of damping coefficient . For ACRec , it can be as high as 18.1 % , corresponding to the damping coefficient of 08 According to Fig 4(b ) , the recall rate also comes to the highest value of 12.3 % when the damping coefficient is 08 In Fig 4(a ) and Fig 4(b ) , for ACRec , we can find that both precision and recall rate decrease when damping coefficient is over 08 Moreover , from the Fig 4(c ) , we can see that the coverage rate generally decreases until the damping coefficient is over 0.8 , and then increases rapidly . Therefore , there is a trade off between recommendation precision and coverage . In all , if the value of coefficient is 0.8 , the performance is not bad for ACRec .
1212 ( a ) Precision
( b ) Recall Rate
( c ) Coverage Rate
Figure 3 : Performance of ACRec and Basic RWR over Target Nodes’ Degree
Table 1 : Experimental Results of the Two Models
Model RWR ACRec
Precision Recall Rate Coverage Rate
15.3 % 18.1 %
10.156 % 12.187 %
0.967 0.99
513 Number of Recommended Nodes Fig 5 illustrates how the number of recommended nodes influence the performance of ACRec and RWR with respect to precision , recall rate and coverage rate .
Fig 5(a ) shows the trend of precision . We can easily find that the precision decreases dramatically with the number of recommended nodes increasing . The highest precision of ACRec is 16.2 % when we recommend 10 nodes to a target node while the highest precision of RWR is 13.3 % when we return a 10 node recommendation list .
As for the performance of recall rate , Fig 5(b ) shows that the recall rate increases gradually , which is opposite to that of precision . Fig 5(c ) also depicts clearly that precision is almost inverse to coverage . Additionally , it is shown by the figure that ACRec performs a little better than basic RWR , but not obvious .
In summary , the consideration of academic social metrics ( ie co author order , latest collaboration time point and times of collaboration ) helps ACRec recommend more precisely with higher recall rate , in a wider scope in a co author network , at least not worse than the benchmark model . Besides , the parameters we take into account affect the performance in diverse manners and we have found their best values for ACRec . 5.2 Experiments in the Best Settings
After determining the three variables above , we carried out experiment to exploit how good ACRec performs on earth compared with RWR . In this section , we test 500 times for each model , and keep the target nodes same . The parameters are assigned the best values based on the former experiment , ie target node ’s degree : > 30 , damping coefficient : 0.8 , and number of recommended nodes : 10 . And we set the time segment of testing data and training data as 2011 , set the iteration times as 25 ;
The result of the exploitation is shown in Table 1 .
It ’s obvious that both precision and recall rate of ACRec are higher than those of RWR , as the precision of ACRec can come to 18.1 % as well as the recall rate is 12187 Besides , for the coverage rate , ACRec performs a little better than
RWR , which is 0.99 in this case . In a word , we can claim that all the three factors we proposed performs well , and ACRec model is more effective than RWR .
In the meantime , some drawbacks are shown when we research others’ work , the precision and recall rate of ACRec are lower than some other recommender method , for example , [ 3 ] , in which the recall rate is 9518 % Nevertheless , it does not mean that our work performs badly . It is due to the scale of data set . Our data set is huger and more pervasive than that of [ 3 ] , where only 629 researchers from 45 Brazilian institutions are considered .
6 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we focus on how to find scholars’ collaboration based on coauthor networks ( ie big scholarly data ) which is rarely studied in the literature . To this end , we have proposed a new model named ACRec , by injecting three academic metrics into RWR and the metrics are coauthor order , latest collaboration time point and collaboration times , constituting the weight of link importance between two authors for recommendation . We conducted extensive experiments on the DBLP data set to examine the performance of Academic RWR with respect to various aspects , including eg varying parameters and impact of the metrics . The experiment results show that our proposed approach performs better than RWR .
Nonetheless , there is still room for future study in this direction . We only count on three academic metrics while many other features exist , such as citation relationship . Besides , there are more reasons for two scholars with no collaboration before to cooperate . For example , they might attend the same meeting and get acquainted to each other by chance , or they are from the same institution . The relationship among coauthors of a paper is far more complicated than what we have imagined . More experiments on the entire DBLP data set may be conducted .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Backstrom and J . Leskovec . Supervised random walks : Predicting and recommending links in social networks . In Proc . of ACM WSDM’11 , pages 635–644 , Hong Kong , China , 2011 .
[ 2 ] D . M . Boyd and N . B . Ellison . Social network sites :
Definition , history , and scholarship . Journal of Computer Mediated Communication , 13(1):210–230 , 2007 .
1213 ( a ) Precision
( b ) Recall Rate
( c ) Coverage Rate
Figure 4 : Performance of ACRec and Basic RWR over Damping Coefficient
( a ) Precision
( b ) Recall Rate
( c ) Coverage Rate
Figure 5 : Performance of ACRec and Basic RWR over Number of Recommended Nodes
[ 3 ] M . A . Brand˜ao , M . M . Moro , G . R . Lopes , and J . P .
[ 11 ] H . Ma , D . Zhou , C . Liu , M . R . Lyu , and I . King .
Oliveira . Using link semantics to recommend collaborations in academic social networks . In Proc . of WWW’13 Companion , pages 833–840 , 2013 .
Recommender systems with social regularization . In Proc . of ACM WSDM’11 , pages 287–296 , Hong Kong , China , 2011 .
[ 4 ] H H Chen , L . Gou , X . Zhang , and C . L . Giles .
[ 12 ] M . E . J . Newman . Scientific collaboration networks . i .
Collabseer : A search engine for collaboration discovery . In Proc . of ACM/IEEE JCDL’11 , pages 231–240 , Ottawa , Ontario , Canada , 2011 .
[ 5 ] F . Fouss , A . Pirotte , J M Renders , and M . Saerens .
Random walk computation of similarities between nodes of a graph with application to collaborative recommendation . IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 19(3):355–369 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] J . Freyne , S . Berkovsky , E . M . Daly , and W . Geyer .
Social networking feeds : Recommending items of interest . In Proc . of ACM RecSys’10 , pages 277–280 .
[ 7 ] M . Jamali and M . Ester . Trustwalker : A random walk model for combining trust based and item based recommendation . In Proc . of ACM KDD’09 , pages 397–406 , Paris , France , 2009 .
[ 8 ] S . Lee and B . Bozeman . The impact of research collaboration on scientific productivity . Social Studies of Science , 35(5):673–702 , 2005 . network construction and fundamental results . Physical Review E , 64(1):016131 , Jun 2001 .
[ 13 ] S . Perugini , M . A . Gon¸calves , and E . A . Fox .
Recommender systems research : A connection centric survey . Journal of Intelligent Information Systems , 23(2):107–143 , 2004 .
[ 14 ] J . Tang , S . Wu , J . Sun , and H . Su . Cross domain collaboration recommendation . In Proc . of ACM KDD’12 , pages 1285–1293 , Beijing , China , 2012 . ACM .
[ 15 ] J . Tang , J . Zhang , L . Yao , J . Li , L . Zhang , and Z . Su . Arnetminer : extraction and mining of academic social networks . In Proc . of ACM KDD’08 , pages 990–998 , Las Vegas , Nevada , USA , 2008 . ACM .
[ 16 ] H . Tong , C . Faloutsos , and J Y Pan . Random walk with restart : Fast solutions and applications . Knowledge and Information Systems , 14(3):327–346 , 2008 .
[ 9 ] M . Ley . Dblp : some lessons learned . Proceedings of the
[ 17 ] A . T¨oscher , M . Jahrer , and R . Legenstein . Improved
VLDB Endowment , 2(2):1493–1500 , 2009 .
[ 10 ] G . Lopes , M . M . Moro , L . K . Wives , and J . P . M . de Oliveira . Collaboration recommendation on academic social networks . In Advances in Conceptual Modeling lC Applications and Challenges , volume 6413 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 190–199 . Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 2010 . neighborhood based algorithms for large scale recommender systems . In Proc . of NETFLIX’08 , pages 4:1–4:6 , Las Vegas , Nevada , 2008 . ACM .
1214
