Combining Geographical Information of Users and Content of Items for Accurate Rating Prediction Zhi Qiao Jing He
Peng Zhang
Institute of Computing
Technology , Chinese Academy of Science
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Beijing , China zhiqiaoict@gmailcom
Institute of Information Engineering , Chinese Academy of Science
Beijing , China zhangpeng@iieaccn
Victoria University Melbourne , Australia jinghe@vueduau
Yanan Cao
Institute of Information Engineering , Chinese Academy of Science
Beijing , China caoyanan@iieaccn
Chuan Zhou
Institute of Information Engineering , Chinese Academy of Science
Beijing , China zhouchuan@iieaccn
Li Guo
Institute of Information Engineering , Chinese Academy of Science
Beijing , China guoli@iieaccn
ABSTRACT Recommender systems have attracted attentions lately due to their wide and successful applications in online advertising . In this paper , we propose a bayesian generative model to describe the generative process of rating , which combines geographical information of users and content of items . The generative model consists of two interacting LDA models , where one LDA model for location based user groups ( user dimension ) and the other for the topics of content of items(item dimension ) . A Gibbs sampling algorithm is proposed for parameter estimation . Experiments have shown our proposed method outperforms baseline methods .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications Data Mining General Terms Theory , Algorithms , Performance Keywords Recommendation Systems , Generative Model . 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recommender systems have attracted more and more attentions . Recently due to the wide use of mobile devices and ubiquitous sensors , it is essential to incorporate geographical information in rating an item [ 1 ] . Many studies have been conducted to explore the benefit of combining the geographical information for recommendation . Some works took the geographical information as a general attribute dimension to extend feature vector [ 1 , 2 ] . Resnick et al . [ 3 ] presented LCARS framework which models both of the geographical information and the content of items for rating prediction . However , these works didn’t simultaneously consider the impacts of users’ geographical information and items’ content ( profile used to represent item ) for rating prediction . In this paper , we propose a Bayesian generative model to combine geographical information of users and content of items for modelling rating . Fig 1 describes the modelling process . We suppose there exist many latent groups for users and some latent topics for items . Thus , value of a user rating a item is derived by computing the weighted rating value through integrating all possible latent group assignment of the user and topic assignment of the item .
Figure 1 : Rating matrix analysis
2 . METHODOLOGY
The proposed model , Clscpr , is mainly a probabilistic mixture generative model . In Fig 2 , the model presents that each rating is determined by the rating value distribution of user ’s group to item ’s topic . The users and items are symmetrically modelled in the Clscpr model , which learns both location based user group and content based item topic . In the Clscpr model , the ratings are generated by the following way : 1 . Choose K l.K g distributions over rating Ψij Dir(ξ ) . 2 . Choose a distribution over K l location based user group for each user Ωu Dir(ω ) . θv Dir(α ) .
3 . Choose a distribution over K g item topics for each item
4 . For each user item pair ( uv ) : ( a ) Choose a user group zu l ( b ) Choose a movie group zv ( c ) Choose a rating ruv p(ruvjzu
M ultinomial(Ωu ) . g M ultinomial(θv ) . l zv g , Ψzu l , zv g ) here is
Multinomial distribution .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577342 .
In the modelling procedure , we suppose that Ψij is the distribution over the rating values 1K s when ith group rates jth topic . Additionally , lu is the specific location of the uth user . ϕli k determines generative probability of the location of the user i from the kth group . Here , we suppose
361 that each group has parameters : Expection µ and Variance Σ , and user ’s location conforms to Gaussian distribution for each group , which can be denoted as li N ( µj , Σj ) where li represents the location of the ith user and ( µj , Σj ) represents the parameters of the jth group . wv is the word set of the content of the vth item . Θgj k determines the generative probability of the content of the jth item generated by the kth topic . Here , we suppose the generative probability is constituted by integrating all of generative probability of words of item ’s content under the assigned topic of the item .
Figure 2 : The Graphical model of Clscpr
Now our goal is to model the observed rating based on prior parameters . Hence , we put everything together , and then we obtain the joint distribution for the Clscpr model as Equation 1 .
∫ ∫ P ( rijjα , ε , ω ) P ( rijj ⃗Φij )P ( ⃗Φijjε)P ( ⃗θijα)P ( ⃗Ωjjω ) Kg∑ Kl∑
=
=
P ( rijjzi g = p , zj l = q , ⃗Φij )P ( zi g = pj ⃗θi )
( 1 ) p=1 q=1
P ( zj l = qj ⃗Ωj )P ( ⃗Φijjε)P ( ⃗θijα)P ( ⃗Ωjjω )
Model Inference . We use collapsed Gibbs sampling to obtain the samples of hidden variable assignments and to estimate unknown parameters fΦ , Θ , Ψ , θ , Ωg in the model . Specifically , we employ a two step Gibbs sampling procedure . Due to space constraints , we show only the derived Gibbs sampling formulas , and omit the detailed derivation process . We first sample the coin zl according to the posterior probability :
P ( zl kg∏ i = kjzl,i , R , L , Ω , Φ , Θ ) = ∑ ∑ . rij lk ;,i + βrij n ks s=1(ns j=1 lk ;,i + βrij )
√jΣkj exp( , 1
2
1
ϕli k =
2π
,i k + ωk t + ωt ) , 1 ,i n ks t=1(n
. ϕli k
( 2 )
( li , µk)T Σ
,1(li , µk ) )
( 3 )
We then sample the zg according to the posterior probability :
P ( zg kl∏ j = kjzg,j , R , L , Ω , Φ , Θ ) = ∑ ∑ . rij gk ;,j + βrij n ks s=1(ns gk ;,j + βrij ) i=1 n
,j k + αk t + αt ) , 1 ,j ks t=1(n nw∏
Θ gj k = p(wjijzg j = k )
. Θ gj k
( 4 )
( 5 ) i=1
After a sufficient number of sampling iterations , we can obtain group assignment of users and topic assignment of items . Hence , ϕli k can be computed according to equation 3 after group parameter of each group is attained , and Θgj k can be computed according to equation 5 , where P ( wji = cjzg k/Nk where Nk represents the size of item set of the kth topic and N c k represents the size of item set where each item member has topic k and contains word c in its content . j = k ) = N c
∑
∑
Ωi = ij as follow : ij + εr nr
∑
; Φr ij = we can estimate the parameters Ωi , θi , Φr ni + ωi ni + αi
; θi = kg j=1(nj + αi ) kl j=1(nj + ωi ) ij + εr ) ( 6 ) Model Application . A rating task in our recommendation system takes four arguments ( u < user > , lu < location of user > , v < item > , cv < content of item > ) . After we obtain parameters ( Ω , θ , Φ , ϕ , Θ ) , we can calculate the predicted value of rij as follow equation . ks t=1(nt kl∑ kg∑ ks∑
˜rij = p=1 q=1 t=1
3 . EXPERIMENTS
Φt ij θi pΘgi p Ωj lj qϕ q
( 7 )
The experiments are based on two data sets : Douban and MovieLens . In order to examine the performance of the methods in the experiments , we adopt two below methods : The Root Mean Squared Error ( RMSE ) and The Mean Absolute Error ( MAE ) . To test the effectiveness of our method , we compare our method with Pure content based predictor ( PCP ) , User based Collaborative Filter ( UCF ) and Matrix Factory ( MF ) .
( a ) K g
( b ) K l
Figure 3 : Latent variables impacts .
Datasets
MovieLens
Douban
Algorithm PCP 1.153 1.055 1.323 1.112
RMSE MAE RMSE MAE
UCF 1.095 0.998 1.215 1.069
MF 0.812 0.763 1.012 0.963
Clscpr 0.711 0.689 0.921 0.889
Table 1 : Precision comparison of different models
Table 1 demonstrates the experimental results under two standard evaluation metrics RMSE and MAE . The experimental results show that out model has higher accuracy than other baseline methods on both data sets . Actually , our proposed model needs two additional predefined parameters , which are K l representing the number of the groups and K g representing the number of the topics . Thus , we implement the model by varying the values on both parameters separately , use RMSE to measure the precision of model and then we get the results in Fig 3 . We can find that the error rate decreases as parameter increasing on both situations , and there are small changes beginning from 50 .
Acknowledgments . This work was supported by the NSFC ( No . 61370025 ) and the Strategic Leading Science and Technology Projects of Chinese Academy of Sciences ( NoXDA06030200 ) 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G . Adomavicius and A . Tuzhilin . Toward the next generation of recommender systems : A survey of the state of the art and possible extensions . TKDE , 3:734{749 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] J . Levandoski and et al . Lars : A location aware recommender system . In ICDE2012 , pages 450{461 . IEEE , 2012 .
[ 3 ] H . Yin and et al . Lcars : A location content aware recommender system . In KDD2013 , pages 221{229 . ACM , 2013 . fi10203040501000707508085090951number of item topicRMSEMovieLensDouban2040103050100070750808509095number of user groupRMSEMovieLensDouban362
