This is a preprint of an article accepted for publication in the proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on the Theory and
Practice of Social Machines . © 2014 International World Wide Web Conference Committee .
PREPRINT
Working out the plot : the role of Stories in Social Machines
Ségolène Tarte E Research Centre
University of Oxford , Oxford , UK segolenetarte@oercoxacuk
David De Roure E Research Centre
University of Oxford , Oxford , UK davidderoure@oercoxacuk
Pip Willcox
Bodleian Libraries
University of Oxford , Oxford , UK pipwillcox@bodleianoxacuk
ABSTRACT Although Social Machines do not have yet a formalized definition , some efforts have been made to characterize them from a “ machinery ” point of view . In this paper , we present a methodology by which we attempt to reveal the sociality of Social Machines ; to do so , we adopt the analogy of stories . By assimilating a Social Machine to a story , we can identify the stories within and about that machine and how this storytelling perspective might reveal the sociality of Social Machines . After illustrating this storytelling approach with a few examples , we then propose three axes of inquiry to evaluate the health of a social machine : ( 1 ) assessment of the sociality of a Social Machine through evaluation of its storytelling potential and realization ; ( 2 ) assessment of the sustainability of a Social Machine through evaluation of its reactivity and interactivity ; and ( 3 ) assessment of emergence through evaluation of the collaboration between authors and of the distributed/mixed nature of authority .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Theory , Human Factors , Design
INTRODUCTION
1 . Social Machines , as conceived by Berners Lee [ 3 ] , follow a model of computation where , rather than separating humans from machines , new modes of collaborations and contributions of humans and machines ( human human ; humanmachine ; machine machine ) are instigated . As a result , it is the whole – humans , machines , and their interactions – that constitutes a Social Machine . A more concrete , clear cut definition of Social Machines has yet to be formulated ; however a number of characteristics of Social Machines , if not a characterization , has been identified in previous work : Social Machines have at least one explicit purpose ( and often more than one ) , they tend to have emergent properties , they go through lifecycles , and they can combine ( eg linearly , compositionally ) to form evolving ecosystems [ 7 ] ; they can be classified according to the types of constructs that they implement around the following themes : tasks , purpose and context of participation ; participants and roles ; motivation and incentives for participation [ 20 ] . As a complement to these approaches to understanding and analyzing Social Machines , in this paper we propose a radically different strategy to engage with them as entities and as a concept . We believe that the main reason why Social Machines seem to resist definition is their multifarious complexity : they usually combine widely disparate ranges of scales at which they operate , from the human cognitive system to the simplest sorting algorithm , from the constituent unit level to the crowd ( humans and machines ) ; they are perpetually in motion , particularly when they thrive ; and they are imbued with sociality , mutability , and emergence . What we propose here is to examine Social Machines from a storytelling perspective , both in analytical and design terms . We argue that drawing an analogy between Social Machines and narratives will allow us not only to analyze existing Social Machines transversally ( rather than level by level or layer by layer ) , but also to identify criteria by which the health of a Social Machine can be evaluated . And , crucially , this storytelling prism will allow us to shine a light on the social aspects of Social Machines . In a first instance , we present what we mean by stories and storytelling and , using the characteristics of narratives , proceed to uncover why Social Machines can be viewed as stories . Then , we will consider the examples of three types of Social Machines that each present interesting behaviours in terms of where they are in their lifecycles and how social they are . Finally , we will argue that the health of a Social Machine can be evaluated through the observation of the stories within and about it .
2 . SOCIAL MACHINES AS STORIES Why adopt a storytelling perspective to study Social Machines ? This idea is rooted in the observation that much
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
PREPRINT attention has been given to the internal functioning of a Social Machine , thereby tipping the balance towards the “ machinery ” side of Social Machines ; the question that remains wide open and relatively unexplored is the following : what is social about a Social Machine ? By adopting a storytelling view on Social Machines , we facilitate the exposition and expression of their sociality .
There is a wide consensus in the cognitive sciences , in anthropology , in the humanities , in philosophy that stories play a major role in human behaviour and in sociality . The psychologist and philosopher Jerome Bruner holds that “ just as our experience of the natural world tends to imitate the categories of familiar science , so our experience of human affairs comes to take the form of the narratives we use in telling about them ” [ 5 ] . In other words , stories are pervasive : they are sense making devices ; they are characteristic of human thought ; they are omnipresent in social interactions and communication [ 18 , 4 ] . By weaving stories between and around facts and events , humans make sense of their experiences , of their memories , of other humans’ actions . Stories are hence one way in which sociality , interactions , circulation of ideas , knowledge , and thought occur . In this particular context , it is therefore in a wide sense that we use the terms : “ story ” , “ storytelling ” , “ narrative ” ; we do not restrict ourselves to fiction : autobiographical accounts ( written and spoken ) are stories , so are news reports , legal records , medical histories , etc
2.1 Thriving Social Machines , stories worth telling
Stories contextualize actions and interactions , they allow for dynamics , for transitions , for linking between scales ( eg individual to group ) , and for the circulation and evolution of ideas . So , carrying forward the notion that storytelling is intrinsic to sociality , it is worth identifying what elements make a story worth telling and what ingredients facilitate social enactment . Aggregating from various sources , ranging from creative writing , narratology , psychology , and literary criticism [ 13 , 11 , 1 ] , we can put forward the following as keys to “ good stories ” : ( i ) characters ; ( ii ) settings – material , temporal , spacial ; ( iii ) degrees of familiarity , of unexpectedness , of novelty ; ( vi ) problems , conflicts , mysteries ; ( v ) sharpness of situations , contrasts , ambiguity ; ( vi ) actions and interactions ; ( vii ) liminality , change , evolution , transformation ; ( viii ) resolution , discovery . This list is of course not exhaustive , and stories worth telling don’t need to combine all of these ingredients ; furthermore , the notion of “ good story ” is also intrinsically cultural [ 5 ] . But by incorporating these key elements , stories worth telling result in engagement , a rational engagement , an emotional engagement of the receiver of the story , whether a reader or a listener . By this response to the story , the receiver becomes more than a passive recipient , s/he turns into a participant , an actant ( to adopt a sociological term from Actor Network Theory [ 14 ] ) not only in the storytelling but actually in the story itself [ 2 ] . Notice also how this list of elements doesn’t constrain the structure of the stories in any way . This is where assimilating Social Machines to stories is interesting . As for sociality to be enacted in a Social Machine there needs to be communication , circulation of ideas , knowledge and thought , the sociality of a Social Machine is related to whether its story is worth telling . It follows that for a Social Machine to thrive , for it to be a good story , it needs the right ingredients , the ingredients that will fuel the story , and allow any actant or external observer to weave these elements into their own storylines by adopting their own preferred story structure .
These key elements then become plotpoints through which storylines ( or curves , or loops ) can be drawn . Rather than looking at a Social Machine as an entity where the “ machinery ” is a set structure of hardware , software , and assigned roles that somehow allows for sociality ( how? ) , we propose to consider the “ machinery ” ( eg infrastructure ) , as plotpoints through which stories can pass , allowing for nondeterministic communication , for non combinatorial circulation of ideas , for non preset cooperation , for innovation , for invention , and thereby for sociality . These plotpoints might be , for example , elements of set narratives , be they defined by hardware , software , or assigned roles , either from inception or as emerging during the lifecycle of the Social Machine . Thriving Social Machines , like stories and thought , are not tree like . Their structure isn’t tree like as decision trees are , in fact they are not only non combinatorial , and also non deterministic because they have elements of fluidity and non predetermination due to their social component . Thriving Social Machines , like stories being told , are more rhizome like [ 8 ] ; storylines can emerge from anywhere , rather than from specific node points , they can develop nonlinearly , they can merge , as rhizomes do . A thriving Social Machine can thus be seen as a “ matrix narrative ” [ 13 ] , where the term matrix is used with its etymological reference to a womb , to a place of origination and development , rather than to the table structure used in computation . As such , a thriving Social Machine is a story that contains interwoven threads of various storylines , or potential storylines , within itself .
2.2 Stories within Social Machines In both the cases of a good story and of a thriving Social Machine , the whole is more than the sum of its constituent parts . It is striking , that in Social Machines , a number of storylines can always be derived from the actions , interactions , and behaviours within it ; they are implicitly there . But who might make them explicit , who tells these stories , and who is listening ? In narratological terms , narrative communication normally occurs at three levels : the author/reader level ( level of non fictional communication ) ; the narrator/addressee level ( level of fictional mediation ) ; and the characters’ level ( level of action ) [ 13 ] . In Social Machines , the boundaries between those levels become blurred . The told storylines within Social Machines usually emanate from an insider , an actant in the Social Machine , one of its constituent parts , whether animate or inanimate . So that the story can be either a first person narrative , where the narrator is a character in the story , or a figural narrative , where the narrator is a passive observer on the inside ( animate or inanimate ) adopting the point of view of a character . Each implicit storyline within a Social Machine can be told by a narrator , who also becomes an author and a storyteller ( in a performative sense ) , for the benefit of other actants in the Social Machine ( eg a help/support thread in a forum within a Social Machine can be seen as a storyline ) , in which case these other actants can contribute to the storyline , weave in their own storylines , influence the course of the storyline . The told internal storylines also give a reader ,
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
PREPRINT whether internal or external to the Social Machine , a sense of how the constituent elements of the Social Machine fit together , how interactions occur , from an insider ’s perspective . These storylines facilitate sociality ; sociality is intrinsic to them . Each character in the story Social Machine is potentially an author and narrator , and a reader and addressee . In section 3 , we will illustrate this point by showing that thriving Social Machines not only implicitly tell stories internally , but also tell stories that are worth telling ( and are told ) within and about the Social Machine .
2.3 Stories about Social Machines When internal storylines are told for the benefit of an indiscriminate audience , they are usually woven into a story about the Social Machine , a story which is primarily geared towards an audience external to the Social Machine . This outwards facing storytelling generally adopts an authorial narrative style , where the narrator is an omniscient observer of the story Social Machine , but not a character . One of the effects of this outwards storytelling is that audiences can become participative ; upon hearing or reading a story about a Social Machine , they might decide to become a character in the Social Machine , to participate in it . These stories about the Social Machines are usually explicit , they can have sensemaking motivations , like academic communications and papers , or marketing drives aiming to recruit more participants , but they are also intrinsically social . Regardless of their motivation , stories about a Social Machine can help establish and maintain dynamic feedback loops of sociality in and around the Social Machine . In fact , the stories about a Social Machine situate themselves at the blurred frontiers of the Social Machine , yet fully participate in its lifecycle .
3 . EXAMPLES The examples in this section illustrate the concept of storySocial Machine . Each one involves people and technologies playing out roles ( actants ) within an evolving Social Machine that has its own overt purpose . In Wikipedia and in the Social Edition , we see a similar goal in the construction of a well defined artefact . In Zooniverse the pursuit of scientific advances and of discovery motivates citizens and scientists—a story of excitement and adventure . Facebook is very much a story about the stories of people ’s lives and it is significant that they purport to be autobiographical , in contrast to the strictly biographical life writing and open content of Wikipedia . Each story Social Machine evoked here features an online discussion space in some form , but the characters and roles are different , whether they be readers , writers , experts , or ‘answer people’ [ 26 , 25 ] . Each one of these Social Machines is also in a different phase of its own lifecycle and , for different reasons , they are interesting stories in their own right : the decline of Wikipedia through ‘editor erosion’ [ 12 ] , for example , has recently attracted attention .
3.1 Zooniverse The Zooniverse is a thriving Social Machine that began with a single project , the Galaxy Zoo citizen science project , which was launched in July 2007 , and attracted an overwhelming response from the public , engaging 165,000 volunteers in the morphological classification of images of more than 900,000 galaxies . It proved its purpose in the delivery of new scientific results—both through analysis of the classifications but also through serendipitous discoveries . The scientific outcomes are understood to be one of the incentives that has maintained the participation ; i.e this is explicitly a citizen science project , not just crowdsourcing [ 19 ] . The Galaxy Zoo Social Machine ( the software and its community ) led to the creation of Zooniverse1 , a platform for continual delivery of new citizen science projects each of which invites public participation in data analysis that researchers cannot accomplish by other methods [ 23 ] . The 20 Zooniverse projects running at the outset of 2014 range across space , nature , biology , medicine , climate science , and the humanities , and the website currently counts around 1 million registered participants . Zooniverse can be seen as a thriving Social Machine and as a Social Machine factory , with 7 projects launched in 2013 and several new projects already in production for 2014 . In terms of output , 250 scholarly articles present results from Zooniverse projects , with 59 dedicated to Zooniverse findings , and 39 publications have resulted from Galaxy Zoo alone . This is , in a brief , a story about the Zooniverse Social Machine . Zooniverse projects are themselves highly storified , as can be seen by visiting the website . For example , the Planet Hunters project is presented with the text “ Find planets around starsThe Kepler spacecraft stares at a field of stars in the Cygnus constellation and records the brightness of those stars every thirty minutes to search for transiting planets ” , and for the Serengeti project “ Go wild in the Serengeti! We need your help to classify all the different animals caught in millions of camera trap images ” . The discoveries are storified too , for example Hanny ’s Voorworp , which started as a story within with a collection of specific images as plotpoints , now has its own dedicated website , and the story has even been presented in comic format2 . As well as classifying images , Zooniverse volunteers interact by participating in discussion fora and we see the online community roles play out around the scientific process [ 10 , 15 ] .
3.2 Wikipedia and the Social Edition Wikipedia is a favourite example of a Social Machine , due to its familiarity ( very wide engagement as readers , and many have also experienced editing ) and the wide understanding that the protocols and etiquette of editing have co evolved through usage ; ie the behaviour of the machine is clearly socially constituted . As a story the setting is modelled on the 2000 year old notion of the encyclopedia ( eg Pliny the Elder ’s Naturalis Historia –1st cent . AD ) , created by experts to capture and transmit human knowledge , but enacted with the affordances of the digital world which provides distribution with no copying costs , mass write access for editing contributions , access to detailed version and provenance information , and machine processable content . In Wikipedia every article comes with an implicit storyline made of the story/ies of its contributions , edits and associated discussion ; every editor has a story of articles and edits , of expertise and arguments . Remarkable features of the Wikipedia story include the democratization of content creation , and the number of contributors who engage anonymously against the common expectation that contributors are motivated by reward or reputation . It is also notable for its expansion
1See : zooniverse.org 2See : http://wwwhannysvoorwerpcom/
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
PREPRINT in other countries and cultures , where the behaviour of the Social Machine has become reconstituted in other contexts ( for example , in China there are different rules around “ reverting ” edits and around page deletion ) . That the content is open is significant and there is a degree of automation in how the content is reused by other Social Machines . All these features constituted stories about Wikipedia that were worth telling , and were told . Today however , the characters in the story Social Machine are codified in that the social roles are mechanically well described , with ‘Wikipedians’ placed in user categories . The evolution of the site is the subject of study and commentary [ 25 , 22 ] , with an MIT review article telling the story of decline : “ the loose collective running the site today , estimated to be 90 percent male , operates a crushing bureaucracy with an often abrasive atmosphere that deters newcomers who might increase participation in Wikipedia and broaden its coverage ” . The decline of Wikipedia can be quantified : as well as editors of individual contributions there are administrators who edit the encyclopedia itself ( they are granted the ability to block and unblock user accounts and to delete , protect and rename pages ) and to achieve “ admin ” status is sufficiently hard that , for example , in March 2010 only two people achieved it ; the number of active administrators was around 1000 in 2007 and is 600 today . The assigned roles of editors have become frozen into ( mandatory ) plotpoints that over constrain the stories within by imposing authority . Though Wikipedia has become an exemplary Social Machine in spite of its current decline , it is by no means the only model for ongoing content creation and curation . Indeed encylopedias have been produced with mass contribution before : over two thousand scholars worked on the Yongle Encylopedia in China , incorporating 8,000 ancient texts ( 19 volumes are now available digitally3 ) . Traditionally the critical editions of literary texts have been created by experts reconstructing texts by drawing on multiple versions and sources , but we now see the rise of the social edition which enables ongoing engagement with the material through collaborative annotation , user derived content , folksonomy tagging , community bibliography , and shared text analysis [ 21 ] . Like Wikipedia the scholarly social edition benefits from the use of hypertext to link in all sources , the provision of tools to help work with the text , and by the publication being able to evolve continually . Unlike Wikipedia , social edition of historical texts not only allows for but encourages the multiplicity of versions the Social Machine affords .
3.3 Facebook Facebook provides a contrast with the previous examples : it is not open , it is driven by a Fortune 500 corporate , and it is multi purpose in that it builds targeted advertising into the machine . Whether Facebook is a Social Machine can be debated , and its equivocal status makes it a useful test of our methodology . In Facebook people link up and share ongoing lifestories , photos , and links to external content , and discourse occurs asynchronously around these ; it is also a messaging platform , and an application platform whereby third party apps ( eg , adventure games , Farmville ) , are plugged in for the benefit of its users . A story about Facebook , on its external boundary , would be that it collects and shares ‘extraordinary stories of people using Facebook’ and this carries
3See : http://yongledadianbodleianoxacuk/ the stories that can be gleaned through mass use , like the review of the year showing ‘top life events’ and most talked about topics4 . Also on this boundary , a service5 collates and delivers a physical book derived from Facebook content , a ‘Social Book’ with statuses , comments and photos of oneself or a friend . One of the striking facts about Facebook , is that it is difficult to find storylines within it that are not “ just another user ’s journey ” ( in the large sense of personal journeys or ‘group’ journeys , to use Facebook ’s own terminology ) . A second fact , revealed by those examples , is that these storylines within are all projections outwards , with little sense of the nature of “ the outwards ” . As a result , most of these potential storylines run in parallel , with very little chance to interweave ; they might intersect , but they usually stay on their own course , save for the occasional detour . Facebook is in decline as it is failing to keep its participants engaged ; indeed , many have started to migrate towards different Social Machines , such as Twitter [ 16 ] , particularly teenagers6 .
4 . STORYTELLING AS A STETHOSCOPE
FOR SOCIAL MACHINES
As we have seen in the examples above , storytelling offers a unique way of probing the health of a Social Machine . And because we think of Social Machines as having lifecycles [ 7 ] , we contend that rather than thinking of a Social Machine in terms of success or failure , it is more useful to assess where in its lifecycle a Social Machine might be . Note however that this view does not preclude a Social Machine from stagnating in its rising stage and then declining without having ever thrived . In this section , we propose to revisit some of the concepts we presented in section 2 and , in the light of the examples in section 3 , we suggest an examination of specific aspects of the storytelling within and about a Social Machine in order to diagnose it . To keep the diagnostics simple , we adopt the terms : “ rising ” , “ thriving ” , and “ in decline ” to express our general diagnostic on a Social Machine . Our chosen storytelling tools to establish this diagnostic will enable us to probe the states of sociality , of emergence , and of sustainability of a Social Machine . We do not claim that all a Social Machine needs to thrive is to score highly in each of those three domains , we do believe however that for a Social Machine to thrive these three aspects need to be vigorous , as exemplified by the Zooniverse example ( section 31 )
4.1 Sociality through storytelling potential and realization
We have argued in section 2 , that sociality is engendered by sense making and interactivity , and that storytelling , which facilitates the circulation of ideas , knowledge , and thought , is inherent to sociality . So our first probing point in a Social Machine is its storytelling potential . Are the ingredients that make for a good story present ? Beyond implicit storylines , are there enough plotpoints to make a storyline explicit , for that story to be worth telling , and eventually told ? Are there enough of those stories within and about the Social Machine , that can be and are told ? It is by telling
4See : http://wwwfacebookstoriescom/ 5See : mysocialbook.com 6See data on : http://wwwstatistacom/topics/1164/socialnetworks/ chart/1563/facebooks relevance waningamong american teens/
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
PREPRINT stories within and about Social Machines that a momentum can be created , that the circulation of ideas , knowledge and thought can occur and by which the sociality of a Social Machine is enacted . This approach to probing a Social Machine through its storytelling potential and realization has already been hinted at elsewhere [ 17 ] , albeit in terms of trajectories through Social Machines and of purpose . The proposal we put forth here is an expansion on what Page & De Roure propose as we do not restrict ourselves to the viewpoint of an outside omniscient observer assigning a purpose to each trajectory , but also factor in the internal stories told by actants ( authors narrators characters ) in the Social Machine and hence with their own motivations , pursuing their own sense making endeavour [ 5 , 6 ] . The example of Zooniverse ( section 3.1 ) shows that a highly storified Social Machine is easier to communicate about and within ; not only is its storytelling potential high , not only are many of its implicit stories worth telling , they are also told . In such a configuration , the momentum gained by the number of stories being told and interwoven within and about the Social Machine empowers its actants as narrators , as authors , as well as characters . It is this perpetual motion and mutability of the stories engendered by the storytelling that maintains the sociality of a Social Machine , and that feeds it . Its storytelling potential is continuously renewed and ( re )realized .
4.2 Sustainability through reactivity and in teractivity
The second probing point in the health assessment of a Social Machine auscultates the reactivity of the Social Machine to storytelling and the interactivity of the storytelling . This assumes that at least some degree of storytelling potential and realization has already been detected in the Social Machine , that some degree of sociality has hence already been identified . One of the challenges for a Social Machine to keep thriving is to keep its storytelling potenIts sustainability is thus tightly tial and realization high . connected with its capacity for renewal . If plotpoints , as defined in section 2.1 , deprecate over time ( eg they might have been overused , thereby losing their novelty , or have become mandatory ) , then it is essential that the Social Machine has the capacity to renew its stock of plotpoints ; if the characters narrators authors rarefy , it is essential to be able to recruit new characters narrators authors . The ability of the Social Machine itself to react to change , as well as the possibility for actants to interact , is therefore crucial to its sustainability . Interactivity can be evaluated by inspecting the complexity of the stories in terms of their number of constituent storylines . How easy is it for an actant to draw their own storyline and to steer it towards the storyline of another actant ? How much effort of adaptation is needed to weave a storyline within another composite story ? How rhizome like or tree like are the story structures ? How constrained are the ways in which storylines can merge , diverge , separate , amalgamate ? Reactivity is another way , in this context , to test how flexible and open the interactivity is , how much the Social Machine allows for improvisation . Given that we have observed how in a ( thriving ) Social Machine , all actants are potentially narrator authors as much as addressee readers , how wide and easy is the audience ’s participation in the storytelling of the Social Machine ? Does this audience have the capacity to renew itself , by which we mean , how often do external readers of a story about a Social Machine become a character within it ( and thus a potential internal authornarrator ) ? In a way , a lack of reactivity and interactivity is just one of the ways in which a Social Machine might quite literally “ lose the plot ” . The example of Facebook ( section 3.3 ) , shows how even with a storytelling potential , a lack of reactivity can be seen as one of the reasons for its decline ; the storylines are there , some are told , but their interweaving is very loose . The Social Machine has lost its reactivity and some of its interactivity .
4.3 Emergence through collaborative author ship and mixed authority
The third probing point in the health assessment of a Social Machine evaluates the degree to which authorship of the storylines within the Social Machine is collaborative , and to what extent authority is distributed , or mixed . Again , this assumes that at least some degree of sociality has already been detected in the Social Machine , but it also relies upon a degree of sustainability being present . Through storytelling , the ways in which individuals interact with the wider group within the Social Machine , and vice versa , are made more tractable ; emergent properties such as self organization of the actants , or of subsets of actants within the Social Machine become more visible . Provided that storytelling potential and realization , as well as reactivity and interactivity are present , the ways in which emergence will express itself are : through the degree of co operation between actants that are drawing a common storyline , and through the ways in which authority might or not be conferred on the collaborative storylines . The reason why these two issues of authorship and authority are so closely connected in the case of Social Machines can be traced to the blurring between author , narrator , reader and addressee as well as character . It is precisely in the space created by this blur that emergence occurs by means of unremitting co construction , cooperation , self organization , and collaborative ( re )definition of self assigned roles [ 24 , 9 ] . As a result , by assessing how frequently storylines merge and diverge , thereby doing and undoing collective storylines in a Social Machine , one gets a sense of the degree of collaboration that can be reached within the Social Machine ; and by assessing the kind of authority that is exercised over the collective storylines , one can appreciate whether emergence might be facilitated . In the example of Wikipedia ( section 3.2 ) , a highly formal bureaucracy assigns authority rigidly , thereby minimizing the blurred space where emergence can occur .
5 . CONCLUSION In this short position paper we have examined Social Machines from a storytelling perspective . We have drawn an analogy between Social Machines and narratives in order to analyze existing Social Machines and to suggest criteria to evaluate the health of a Social Machine . This approach was motivated by a desire to foreground sociality in the design and analysis of Social Machines ; it explores the conjecture that stories are a means of achieving this . Our examples— Zooniverse , Wikipedia , Social Editions , and Facebook—are at different stages in their lifecycles and exhibit different degrees of sociality . Following through with this storytelling perspective , we propose three axes of inquiry to evaluate the health of a social machine : ( 1 ) assessment of the sociality of a Social Machine
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
PREPRINT through evaluation of its storytelling potential and realization ; ( 2 ) assessment of the sustainability of a Social Machine through evaluation of its reactivity and interactivity ; and ( 3 ) assessment of emergence through evaluation of the collaboration between authors and of the distributed/mixed nature of authority . This initial exploration shows great promises for the use of the narrative metaphor as well as thrown up several avenues of further exploration . As Social Machines that are working out their plots , we too will pursue this line of enquiry in order to refine this methodological framework . For the sake of clarity and brevity we have not addressed here the many Social Machines which are explicitly for stories , ranging from adventure games ( eg Massively Multiplayer Online games ) to collaborative editing of drama scripts , nor the many Social Machines which constitute the evolving scholarly communications ecosystem and deal with papers , articles , blogposts or records of experiments ( ie the stories of science and research ) .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is supported under SOCIAM : The Theory and Practice of Social Machines , a programme funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council ( EPSRC ) under grant number EP/J017728/1 , and a collaboration between the Universities of Edinburgh , Oxford , and Southampton . The authors further wish to thank all the participants in the workshop on “ Social Sciences and the Social Machine What is the ‘social’ in a Social Machine ? ” [ Sept . 2013 , Oxford ] .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . P . Abbott . The Cambridge Introduction to
Narrative . Cambridge Introductions to Literature . Cambridge University Press , 2008 .
[ 2 ] R . Barthes . The death of the author . In Image , music , text , pages 142–8 . London , 1977 .
[ 3 ] T . Berners Lee and M . Fischetti . Weaving the web :
The original design and ultimate destiny of the world wide web by its inventor . Harper , San Francisco , 1999 .
[ 4 ] B . Boyd . On the Origin of Stories : Evolution ,
Cognition , and Fiction . Belknap Harvard , 2009 . [ 5 ] J . Bruner . The narrative construction of reality .
Critical Inquiry , 18(1):pp . 1–21 , 1991 .
[ 6 ] K . Dautenhahn . Story telling in virtual environments .
In ECAI’98 Workshop on Intelligent Virtual Environments , Brighton , UK . Citeseer , 1998 . [ 7 ] D . De Roure , C . Hooper , M . Meredith Lobay ,
K . Page , S . Tarte , D . Cruickshank , and C . De Roure . Observing social machines part 1 : what to observe ? In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web companion ( WWW ’13 Companion ) , 1st International Web Observatory Workshop ( WOW2013 ) , 2013 .
[ 8 ] G . Deleuze and F . Guattari . Capitalisme et
Schizophr´enie , volume 2 . Mille Plateaux . Minuit , Paris , 1980 .
[ 10 ] P . L . Gay , S . Brown , A . D . Huang , C . Lehan , and
Moon Zoo Team . Behaviors and Motivations observed in the Zooniverse . AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts , page A581 , Dec . 2010 .
[ 11 ] D . Herman . Basic elements of Narrative .
Wiley Blackwell , 2009 .
[ 12 ] K . Hill . Sue Gardner On ‘Herding Cats’ And Halting Wikipedia ’s Editor Erosion . Forbes , August , 22 2012 .
[ 13 ] M . Jahn . Narratology : A Guide to the Theory of
Narrative . English Department , University of Cologne . , 2005 .
[ 14 ] B . Latour . Reassembling the Social – An Introduction to Actor Network Theory . Oxford University Press , 2005 .
[ 15 ] C . Lehan and P . Gay . User Movement Across the
Zooniverse . In American Astronomical Society Meeting Abstracts #217 , volume 43 of Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society , Jan . 2011 .
[ 16 ] G . Marks . Why facebook is in decline . Forbes , August ,
19 2013 .
[ 17 ] K . Page and D . De Roure . Trajectories through social machines . In Web Science Conference , Building Web Observatories Workshop , Paris , 2013 .
[ 18 ] S . J . Read and L . C . Miller . Stories are fundamental to meaning and memory : For social creatures , could it be otherwise ? In R . Wyer , editor , Advances in Social Cognition , volume 8 , pages 139–152 . Lawrence Erlbaum Associates , New Jersey , 1995 .
[ 19 ] N . Savage . Gaining wisdom from crowds . Commun .
ACM , 55(3):13–15 , Mar . 2012 .
[ 20 ] N . R . Shadbolt , D . A . Smith , E . Simperl ,
M . Van Kleek , Y . Yang , and W . Hall . Towards a classification framework for social machines . In SOCM2013 : The Theory and Practice of Social Machines , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil
2013 .
”
[ 21 ] R . Siemens , M . Timney , C . Leitch , C . Koolen , and
A . Garnett . Toward modeling the social edition : An approach to understanding the electronic scholarly edition in the context of new and emerging social media . Literary and Linguistic Computing , 27(4):445–461 , 2012 .
[ 22 ] T . Simonite . The decline of wikipedia . MIT Technology
Review Magazine , November/December 2013 . [ 23 ] A . M . Smith , S . Lynn , and C . J . Lintott . An introduction to the zooniverse . In First AAAI Conference on Human Computation and Crowdsourcing , volume AAAI Technical Report CR 13 01 , 2013 .
[ 24 ] M . B . Tappan . Narrative , authorship , and the development of moral authority . New Directions for Child and Adolescent Development , 1991(54):5–25 , 1991 .
[ 25 ] H . T . Welser , D . Cosley , G . Kossinets , A . Lin ,
F . Dokshin , G . Gay , and M . Smith . Finding social roles in wikipedia . In Proceedings of the 2011 iConference , iConference ’11 , pages 122–129 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
[ 9 ] N . Diakopoulos , K . Luther , Y . E . Medynskiy , and
[ 26 ] H . T . Welser , E . Gleave , D . Fisher , and M . Smith .
I . Essa . The evolution of authorship in a remix society . In Proceedings of the Eighteenth Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia , HT ’07 , pages 133–136 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
Visualizing the signatures of social roles in online discussion groups . Journal of social structure , 8(2):1–32 , 2007 .
This paper , accepted at the ‘SOCM14’ workshop of ‘WWW2014’ : http://wwwsociamorg/socm2014/ , will appear in :
ACM’S WWW’14 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
