How Social is Social Tagging ?
Stephan Doerfel University of Kassel doerfel@csuni kasselde
Thomas Niebler
University of Würzburg niebler@informatik.uni wuerzburg.de
Daniel Zoller
University of Würzburg zoller@informatik.uni wuerzburg.de Andreas Hotho
University of Würzburg hotho@informatik.uni wuerzburg.de
Philipp Singer
Graz University of Technology philippsinger@tugrazat
Markus Strohmaier GESIS & U . of Koblenz markusstrohmaier@gesisorg
ABSTRACT Social tagging systems have established themselves as an important part in today ’s web and have attracted the interest of our research community in a variety of investigations . This has led to several assumptions about tagging , such as that tagging systems exhibit a social component . In this work we overcome the previous absence of data for testing such an assumption . We thoroughly study the hypothesis of social interaction , leveraging for the first time live log data gathered from the real world public social tagging system BibSonomy . Our empirical results indicate that sharing of resources constitutes an important and indeed social aspect of tagging .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Systems and Software—Information Networks
Keywords social tagging ; assumptions ; folksonomy ; behavior
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Social tagging systems such as Delicious , BibSonomy or Flickr have attracted the interest of our research community for almost a decade . One predominant assumption about social tagging systems is that they are indeed social – as their name suggests . The social aspects of tagging have been emphasized early in the history of tagging systems . Eg , in 2005 , Weinberger [ 4 ] referred to it as one of two aspects that “ make tagging highly useful ” – ie , users tag their resources publicly , see the collections of other users and most importantly also might use resources originally posted by others . Nevertheless , there is also the competing hypothesis , that personal information management may be one of the main reasons why people use tagging systems.1
1http://okcancel.com/archives/article/2005/07/ tagging for fun and finding.html
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577301
However , testing this assumption2 on a large scale has been nearly impossible so far , because datasets of detailed usage logs have been unavailable . Thus , most of the previous work analyzing social tagging systems focuses on data displayed on the web , ie , posts . This data allows for investigating evidence of social behavior , like the number of common resources or tags in user collections . However , only the use of server log data , allows a more detailed study of actual social behavior . In this work we use usage log data to investigate social behavior on two levels : First , we examine whether users visit resources tagged by others and second ( as even stronger evidence of social interaction ) whether they also adopt tagged content of others by copying it .
To the best of our knowledge , this paper presents the first systematic and in depth empirical study leveraging actual web server log data gathered from a real world , public social tagging system . Our data comes from the social tagging system BibSonomy [ 1 ] , which allows users to store and share links to websites as well as mostly scientific publications . We use a cleaned dataset ( eg , removing bots , spammers , unsuccessful requests , and requests to resources like CSS , etc . ) obtained from BibSonomy ’s server logs . It consists of around 3.5 million user requests made between 2006 and the end of 2011 .
The closest work to the one in this article is by Millen and Feinberg [ 3 ] , who investigated user logs of the IBM internal social tagging system “ dogear ” and found that among all user requests to posts , about 74 % targeted posts bookmarked by other users . Since their work focuses on a system that is used inside a company and is not publicly accessible , we do not know whether their results hold in general .
2 . RESULTS
In the following , we investigate how much social interac tion can be detected in the usage data of BibSonomy .
Retrieval . We start by looking at all retrieval oriented requests . From the server logs we can observe that more than two thirds of all requests ( about 68 % ) from logged in users go to their own pages . Users visit other pages in about 32 % of the requests to look at either general pages containing posts
2In the literature , several further assumptions have been made about tagging systems , eg , that their key components ( ie , users , tags and resources ) are equally important structural elements of social tagging systems or that popularity in terms of posts means importance . We investigate these other assumptions in greater detail in our technical report [ 2 ] and focus here on the social assumption . although in the majority of cases own tags were used , in a large number of cases , tags from others are adopted as well .
3 . CONCLUSIONS
In this work we empirically focused on finding answers to the question how social is social tagging ? We tackled this question via a study of a large scale usage log dataset obtained from the public social tagging system BibSonomy . We found evidence for both personal information management and social interaction : Although more requests are spent on a user ’s own collection than on other users’ posts , the interest in other users’ content is still significant as posts of other users are frequently visited and copied . The shares of visited posts and copied resources and tags are evidence of social interaction and demonstrate , that the collaborative aspect of the tagging system is recognized and used .
In the future , we want to address further assumptions and we plan to analyze individual user behavior like personal ratios of contribution and retrieval , or preferences to tag querying or text search , as well as the influence of recommender systems and the user interface .
Acknowledgements . This work is in part funded by the FWF Austrian Science Fund Grant I677 as well as by the DFG through the PoSTS project .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Benz , A . Hotho , R . J¨aschke , B . Krause , F . Mitzlaff , C . Schmitz , and G . Stumme . The social bookmark and publication management system BibSonomy . The VLDB Journal , 19(6):849–875 , Dec . 2010 .
[ 2 ] S . Doerfel , D . Zoller , P . Singer , T . Niebler , A . Hotho , and M . Strohmaier . Of course we share! Testing assumptions about social tagging systems , 2014 . cite arxiv:14010629
[ 3 ] D . R . Millen and J . Feinberg . Using social tagging to improve social navigation . In Workshop on the Social Navigation and Community based Adaptation Technologies , 2006 .
[ 4 ] D . Weinberger . Tagging and why it matters . SSRN eLibrary , 2005 . of several users ( about 16 % ) or content of individual other users ( about 16% ) . This share of visits to content of others is far below the reported 74 % in [ 3 ] for a company internal tagging system . In summary , we see that the larger share of interactions in BibSonomy happens with the personal collection . However , the interest in other users’ content accounts for a significant part – almost one third of all retrieval requests – of the interaction with the system .
Copying Resources . Next , we investigate to what extent users not only visit content from others , but copy it ( instead creating new posts themselves ) . There are different ways to post a single resource to BibSonomy : ( a ) by manually filling in a form with all metadata of a publication or bookmark , ( b ) by using a bookmarklet in the browser that extracts all metadata from the currently visited website or publication , ( c ) by copying existing entries from other users while browsing in the system , or ( d ) using other methods like the extraction of metadata using the ISBN of a publication . While copying resources from others ( c ) would be an instance of sharing , the other options ( a,b , and d ) are rather examples of personal information management . Figure 1 illustrates that the bookmarklet feature is used most frequently ( 64% ) , followed by entering the metadata manually ( 25% ) , and only about 11 % of the resources are copied from other users . Less than 1 % were stored using one of the other methods . When we look at publications and bookmarks separately , we observe that the ratios between the distinct ways of posting resources differ . Publications are copied more often than bookmarks ( 18 % vs . 3 % ) and users use the bookmarklets for bookmarks ( 81 % ) more frequently than for publications ( 48% ) . One reason for these differences might be the fact that users leave the system when they follow a bookmarked link , while they stay within BibSonomy when they check out details of a publication . Thus , using the bookmarklet is the easiest way to post a website and clicking the copy button is a more convenient option for copying a visited publication . We also note that the share of 3 % of copied bookmarks is close to the 2.2 % share reported in [ 3 ] for the IBM internal system dogear , while the share for publications ( 18 % ) exceeds that value by a factor of eight .
Since a resource can only be copied if another user had already posted that resource in BibSonomy , we have to take into account whether posted resources were already in the system when a user posted them . Among the posting requests where posts were not copied from another user , only about 17 % had a corresponding resource already present in the database and thus could have been copied . In 42 % of the postings where the resources had previously been posted , the new post was created through copying . This can be regarded as a relatively large share , since looking up publications and bookmarks in BibSonomy is only one out of many possible ways to find interesting resources on the web or elsewhere .
Copying Tags . Finally , we study whether not only resources , but also tags are shared . To that purpose we counted how often users who copied a resource used tags from their own vocabulary or tags of the original post to describe their new post . In 87 % of all copy requests , at least one tag from the own vocabulary has been used . In 42 % of all copies , at least one of the original post ’s tags has been adopted . In the other copy events , 44 % of the original posts had only special tags like “ imported ” that are probably not meaningful for the user copying the post . Similarly to the copying of resources we find evidence for social interaction : users share tags , ie ,
