Entity centric Summarization :
Generating Text Summaries for Graph Snippets
Shruti Chhabrafi
«supervised by Srikanta Bedathur»
Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology
New Delhi , India
{shrutic , bedathur}@iiitdacin
ABSTRACT In recent times , focus of information retrieval community has shifted from traditional keyword based retrieval to techniques utilizing the semantics in the text . Since such techniques require the understanding of relationships between entities , efforts are ongoing to organize the Web into large entity relationship graphs . These graphs can be leveraged to answer complex relationship queries . However , most of the research has focused upon extracting structural information between entities such as a path , Steiner tree , or subgraphs . Little attention has been paid to the comprehension of these structural results , which is necessary for the user to understand relationships encapsulated in these structures .
In this doctoral proposal , we pursue the idea of entitycentric summarization and propose a novel framework to produce entity centric summaries which describe the relationships among input entities . We discuss the inherent challenges associated with each module in the framework and present an evaluation plan . Results from our preliminary experiments are encouraging and substantiate the feasibility of summarization problem .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
Keywords entity relationship graph , summarization , related entities , relationship description
1 . PROBLEM STATEMENT
World Wide Web is a vast source of information and bears the potential to become the largest knowledge base . Significant efforts are being made to add semantics to the web fi research supported by a TCS research fellowship .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482567959 by organizing it into large entity relationship graphs . Large entity relationship graphs , such as Dbpedia [ 4 ] , Freebase [ 6 ] , and Yago [ 20 ] , express semantic associations by representing entities as nodes in the graph and relations as edges . Such structures can be exploited to find interesting and complex connections ( relations ) among entities [ 24 ] . Researchers have proposed frameworks to extract relationship structures , ranging from simple paths [ 16 ] to complex subgraphs [ 15 ] , from these entity relationship graphs . These efforts have considerably improved the semantic search paradigm , however , less attention has been paid to the interpretability of these relationship structures . Due to lack of natural textual descriptions or contextual information in the structures , it becomes difficult to understand and interpret the inherent relationships .
Various modern systems , such as OpenIE [ 14 ] and PATTY [ 31 ] , provide an interface to find relationship between entities and explicitly maintain textual evidences from where the relationships were extracted . These evidences are capable of describing the relationships for the entity pair involved . However , even with the availability of evidences , the task of combining the information in evidences for relationships is left to the user .
In this doctoral proposal , we pursue the idea of entitycentric summarization ie , generating textual summaries to describe the relationships among the given set of entities . We assert that presence of entity centric summaries for entities will help in better understanding of entity relationships . We propose a framework to generate entity centric summaries for a given set of entities . The set may comprise of one or more entities . In the proposed framework , we broadly address following problems : ffl Mining large information sources to extract sentences defining relationships between entities ffl Synthesizing a coherent and good quality summary from given set of sentences
1.1 Related Work
Entity centric summarization is a relatively less explored research problem . Though entity is an essential part of research in information retrieval these days , less emphasis has been laid on generating a summary centered towards a given set of entities . The closest work to the problem proposed is by Srihari et al . [ 35 ] . They proposed a framework to generate hypothesis graphs ( subgraphs connecting given set of entities ) and ranked evidence trails ( sentences ) for the graphs .
33 Figure 1 : Entity centric Summarization Framework
Researchers have also looked into some special cases of entity centric summarization such as generating comprehensive summaries for a domain specific entity or an entity pair . Sauper et al . [ 34 ] used high level structure of humangenerated text to automatically create domain specific templates . This research is limited to disease and American film actors entities , which exhibit fairly consistent article structures , thereby providing a good quality template . Filippova et al . [ 17 ] built a multi document summarization system to obtain summaries for companies using financial news corpus . Liu et al . [ 29 ] proposed an integrated bootstrapping model BioSnowball to jointly solve the biography ranking and fact extraction problem . Their system summarizes the web documents to generate Wikipedia style pages for any person . Jin et al . [ 23 ] aimed at finding most meaningful evidence trails across documents that connect topics directly or through intermediate topics .
2 . PROPOSED FRAMEWORK
Entity centric summarization refers to generating summaries centered towards a given set of entities . A coherent summary can be generated by identifying and combining textual relationships for the given set of entities . Based on this idea , we propose a novel framework to address the problem of entity centric summarization . As shown in Figure 1 , the framework is composed of three modules namely , ffl Module 1 : Graph Extraction ffl Module 2 : Identifying Relationship Descriptions ffl Module 3 : Summary Synthesis
Firstly , the set of input entities is passed through graph extraction module , where a structural view is generated . The structural view can be seen as a set of edges between connected entities . Next , the sentences describing each edge are extracted from the web corpus , these sentences are termed as Relationship Descriptions . In the structural view , each edge is now associated with a set of relationship descriptions . The exhaustive pool of candidate summaries for given entity set is formed by taking cartesian product of relationship description sets . An ordering of these summaries is then obtained using a ranking function . Top k summaries in the ordering are presented to the user .
2.1 Graph Extraction
Given a set of entities , the task is to extract a subgraph from entity relationship graph such that the subgraph connects the entities . Let the subgraph be G(V,E ) , where V represent the set of entities in subgraph and E represents the set of edges ie , connections among entities . Based on the number of entities in the given entity set , graph extraction module comprises of following two cases :
Case 1 : Single entity Intuitively , in a real life scenario , an entity is generally described by its related entities . For instance , Bt Cotton can be described by entities such as Monsanto the company which introduced it , Bacillus Thurenginesis the bacteria which is helpful in creating it , 1996 the year when it was introduced , and Mexico the country where it was introduced . Therefore , the goal is to find the salient entities related to the given entity resulting in a star graph like structure . The edges in such a star graph can be augmented with textual evidences , followed by coherently ordering the evidences , to form a potential textual summarization of input entity .
Finding top k related entities is a well researched problem . TREC1 2009 , 2010 , and 2011 introduced related entity finding ( REF ) task in its entity track , however , the task provided much more information about the target entity which is generally not available real time . There are various entityrelationship graphs publicly available , edges in such graphs express semantic associations . Researchers have worked on these graphs to add notion of semantic strength to edges . For instance , Cheng et al . [ 8 ] proposed a variant of random surfer model to rank the property value pairs ( edges ) associated with an entity in a graph . Such techniques may help to identify salient related entities .
Case 2 : Multiple Entities Given more than one entity , the task is to find a graphical sub structure connecting these entities . The extracted graph may comprise of additional related entities . For instance , given two entities PDP 1 and Hewlett Packard , a possible graphical representation may be an entity chain , where PDP 1 is connected to Digital Equipment Corporation ( DEC ) , DEC to Compaq and Compaq to HewlettPackard ( HP ) . The relationships among these entities hold
1http://trecnistgov/data/entityhtml
34 as follows : PDP 1 was introduced by DEC ; DEC merged with Compaq , which further merged with HP .
Researchers have addressed the problem of finding relationship structures in various directions . In mid 1980s , Swanson [ 37 ] introduced a closed discovery framework for hypothesis generation . Given two disconnected topics , he explored MEDLINE to identify potential linkages via intermediate topics . Srinivasan [ 36 ] proposed closed discovery algorithms to automatically return ranked list of intermediate topics , in contrast to manual analysis in original discovery framework . In order to improve effectiveness , researchers [ 11][21][22 ] have incorporated domain semantics within the discovery framework . Other than discovery frameworks , researchers have specifically looked into relationship queries to identify complex relationships in entityrelationship or entity graphs . Anyanwu and Sheth [ 3 ] defined complex relationships such as paths between entities , networks of paths , or subgraphs on RDF as semantic associations . Halaschek et al . [ 19 ] referred the special case of finding path between entities as fl path semantic associations and proposed a system SemDIS to discover such semantic associations in RDF . Anyanwu et al . [ 2 ] further extended the idea to include fl join associations in a system , termed as SemRank . Two nodes in RDF are fl join associated when they are transitively connected to a common node . Kasneci et al . [ 25 ] framed the problem of finding relationships between set of two or more entities as a Steiner Tree computation in entity relationship graphs . Fang et al . [ 16 ] proposed a system REX to find a subgraph in entityrelationship graph which connects the entity pair . They demonstrated the necessity of including non paths in the results . Srihari et al . [ 35 ] proposed a framework to generate ranked list of query relevant hypothesis graphs ( subgraphs ) from concept association graph .
As discussed above , significant research efforts have been made to address the problem of sub graph extraction from a given graph efficiently . Therefore , in this doctoral proposal , we focus on addressing the other two modules of the proposed framework ie extracting relationship descriptions and synthesizing a good quality summary .
2.2 Identifying Relationship Descriptions
Each edge e 2 E in the graph G(V,E ) represents a relationship between entities . We intend to extract set of relationship descriptions ( sentences ) Se for each edge e . The task of extracting relationship descriptions appears similar to a sentence retrieval problem . Sentence Retrieval is the task of retrieving a relevant sentence in response to a query , a question , or a reference sentence [ 30 ] . However , unlike sentence retrieval problem , our problem deals with a pair of entities as query and aims at retrieving sentences describing relation between them . Some additional research challenges need to be addressed such as defining appropriate ranking measures and considering context .
Various systems such as NELL [ 7 ] , Open IE [ 14 ] , and PATTY [ 31 ] learn relations from corpus and maintain textual evidences ( phrases or sentences ) from where relations were extracted . Furthermore , techniques such as support sentence retrieval [ 5 ] address the problem of finding sentences for a query ( not necessarily an entity ) and its associated entities .
Based on the understanding of the problem and literature study , following research challenges are identified : ffl Though the retrieved sentence may define a relationship for a given entity pair , the relationship may not be relevant to context of the given graph . Therefore , context must be considered to retrieve relationship descriptions . The context can be defined as adjacent entities in graph or topic of the relationship description . ffl An entity may be present in various surface forms which makes the problem of sentence retrieval more complex . For instance , \Mark Zuckerberg" can be mentioned as \Mark E . Zuckerberg" , \Mark Elliot Zuckerberg" or \Facebook Creator" . Therefore , it is important to consider all mentions of the entity .
2.3 Summary Synthesis
Given description sets Se1 ; Se2 ; :: : ; Sen , exhaustive set of candidate summaries is generated by taking Cartesian prod . : : : . Sen . Thus , a uct of all description sets ie Se1 candidate summary is synthesized as follows :
. Se2 l1 ( l2 ( : : : ( ln where li 2 Sei and ( is concatenation operator .
To identify good summaries , the candidate summary set needs to be ranked . The ranking function must capture the inherent properties of a well written document . Significant research has been made to capture the properties of a wellwritten document such as Coherence , Focus , Sequentiality , and Non Redundancy [ 1][26][33 ] .
Coherence is a vital property of a well written document which helps the reader to link related pieces of information and comprehend a well connected representation of the text . The text coherence should be considered at two levels : 1 ) local coherence , which implies sentence to sentence transitions should be smooth and 2 ) global coherence , which considers discourse level relation connecting remote sentences . A number of different theories from a variety of intellectual disciplines have been proposed to represent text coherence in multi sentence text , including RST , Discourse Grammar , Macrostructures , Coherence Relations , etc [ 30 ] . The coherence can be modeled as topical closeness , lexical coherence , temporal coherence , content relatedness , etc .
Sentence ordering also plays a vital role to capture text coherence . The order in which information is presented critically influences the quality of a text and certain orderings may pose problems for the reader trying to understand the gist of the presented information [ 32 ] . Focus refers to the property of conciseness , the summary should be to the point and should contain only important aspects . A more unified text results in better comprehension [ 18 ] . A precise summary should not contain any redundant information [ 12][13 ] . Based on the insights from literature , following research issues need to be addressed : ffl Ranking function must encapsulate the key properties of a well written summary . However , it is challenging to create a model considering all properties . ffl Ranking all combinations of the relationship descriptions is a computationally expensive task , therefore , pruning step needs to be incorporated to enhance the performance efficiency .
35 3 . EVALUATION PLAN
The generated summaries will be evaluated in following ways : ffl The results will be compared with the state of the art technique proposed by Srihari et al . [ 35 ] . ffl Top 10 summaries will be graded by human judges on a given scale : Perfect(3 ) , Good(2 ) , Average(1 ) , and Poor(0 ) . Performance scores such as NDCG@k and P@k will be computed for the graded results to measure effectiveness of the ranking algorithm . ffl The efficiency of the overall framework will be evalu ated using processing time as the measure . ffl ROUGE [ 28 ] , a widely used measure to evaluate summaries , will also be computed against the human generated summaries . ffl The ranking function for generated summaries shall be based on various properties of a well written document . Therefore , the summaries will be thoroughly evaluated for each property based on the performance measures inherited from literature . ffl A qualitative user study will be conducted to evaluate the usefulness and usability of the entire system .
4 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
Following experiments are performed to identify the un derlying challenges in proposed framework : Experiment 1 The experiment is performed to understand the significance of context sentences in retrieval of relationship descriptions for an entity pair . The experiment is motivated from Blanco et al . [ 5 ] . They proposed a model for retrieving support sentences for a query and associated entity and their results improved on incorporating context sentences . We also consider the context as two preceding and two succeeding sentences . The input entities e1 and e2 are expanded using the means relationship in Yago [ 20 ] . The sentences are extracted from Wikipedia corpus containing one entity in main sentence and other entity in context or both the entities in the main sentence . The extracted sentences are ranked based on the distance between the two entities . The set of main sentences is referred as Set A . Among the sentences in Set A , sentences containing both the entities in main sentence are filtered ( ie context ignored ) and referred as Set B . Results from Set A and Set B are compared on 127 entity pairs . Precision at rank 5 for Set A and Set B is around 17 % and 26 % respectively , wheres NDCG for Set A and Set B varies between 90 96 % . It clearly indicates that 1 ) such a definition of context is not helpful in enhancing the performance of sentence retrieval , other formulation of context may be required and 2 ) better retrieval model is required . Experiment 2 The purpose of this experiment is to analyze the performance of proposed framework using baseline approaches as well as to determine the key properties of a good quality summary [ 9 ] . To demonstrate a basic experiment , we consider the entity chains of path length two ( i.e , chain of three entities ) . We extract the set of relationship descriptions for each edge in graph using Open IE [ 14 ] . The experiment is performed on a query set comprising 15 entity chains . The set of candidate summaries are obtained by performing cross product over the identified relationship descriptions for each entity pair . The candidate summaries are ranked based on the cosine similarity distance measure .
The system generated summaries are qualitatively evaluated . The results are encouraging and justify our assertion of proposed framework . High quality summaries generated enabled us to identify three key properties of a good summary : Coherence , Succinctness , and Non Redundancy . Experiment 3 The aim of this experiment is to generate a ranked list of summaries for a two length entity chain [ 10 ] . Firstly , each edge in the entity chain is augmented with a set of sentences . The sentences are identified using OpenIE [ 14 ] . The cartesian product of the sets of sentences is then computed and each element in the resultant set is considered as a candidate summary . Beside these summaries of length two , it is observed that few single sentences are individually able to describe the three entities in the entity chain . Therefore , single sentences mentioning all the three entities are also considered as candidate summaries . The set of candidate summaries is then ranked based on the properties identified in Experiment 2 . The coherence and succinctness properties together are important to form a good quality summary . The less value of any of these may drastically degrade the quality of the summary . Moreover , it is also essential to penalize the summaries with redundant information . Based on this rationale , following function is modeled to rank the summaries :
Score(m ) = ( 1 , ff ) ( Coherence fi Succinctness )
, ff Redundancy where m refers to a candidate summary .
In the experiment , coherence is measured using cosine similarity of LSA ( latent semantic analysis ) [ 27 ] vectors . LSA is learned on wikipedia corpus . Succinctness is computed as reciprocal of number of entities in the summary and n gram overlap is used as a measure to compute Redundancy . The model is evaluated on 27 entity chains . We achieve a high precision of 79 % at rank 1 and NDCG of around 95 % at rank 5 . The results show that summaries generated enable user to understand underlying relationships and also promise for more in depth work .
5 . CONCLUSION
The structural view of relationship among entities are difficult to comprehend due to lack of contextual information , therefore , comprehensive summaries are necessary for better interpretability of results . In this doctoral proposal , we propose entity centric summarization framework to address the challenging problem of generating comprehensive summaries for set of entities . This is one of the few attempts towards comprehending the structural relationships among entities . We briefly discussed the existing approaches and inherent challenges in the proposed framework . The feasibility of generating a textual summary using proposed framework is demonstrated through experiments .
36 6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Agrawal , R . , Chakraborty , S . , Gollapudi , S . ,
Kannan , A . , and Kenthapadi , K . Empowering authors to diagnose comprehension burden in textbooks . In KDD ( 2012 ) , pp . 967{975 .
[ 2 ] Anyanwu , K . , Maduko , A . , and Sheth , A .
Semrank : ranking complex relationship search results on the semantic web . In WWW ( 2005 ) , pp . 117{127 .
[ 3 ] Anyanwu , K . , and Sheth , A . fl queries : enabling querying for semantic associations on the semantic web . In WWW ( 2003 ) , pp . 690{699 .
[ 4 ] Bizer , C . , Lehmann , J . , Kobilarov , G . , Auer , S . ,
Becker , C . , Cyganiak , R . , and Hellmann , S . Dbpedia a crystallization point for the web of data . Web Semant . 7 , 3 ( 2009 ) , 154{165 .
[ 5 ] Blanco , R . , and Zaragoza , H . Finding support sentences for entities . In SIGIR ( 2010 ) , pp . 339{346 .
[ 6 ] Bollacker , K . , Evans , C . , Paritosh , P . , Sturge ,
T . , and Taylor , J . Freebase : a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge . In SIGMOD ( 2008 ) , pp . 1247{1250 .
[ 7 ] Carlson , A . , Betteridge , J . , Kisiel , B . , Settles , B . , Jr . , E . R . H . , and Mitchell , T . M . Toward an architecture for never ending language learning . In AAAI ( 2010 ) .
[ 8 ] Cheng , G . , Tran , T . , and Qu , Y . Relin : relatedness and informativeness based centrality for entity summarization . In ISWC ( 2011 ) , pp . 114{129 .
[ 9 ] Chhabra , S . , and Bedathur , S . Generating text summaries of graph snippets . In COMAD ( 2013 ) , pp . 121{124 .
[ 10 ] Chhabra , S . , and Bedathur , S . Towards generating text summaries for entity chains . In ECIR ( 2014 ) . [ 11 ] Cohen , T . , Whitfield , G . K . , Schvaneveldt ,
R . W . , Mukund , K . , and Rindflesch , T . Epiphanet : an interactive tool to support biomedical discoveries . JBDC 5 ( 2010 ) , 21{49 .
[ 12 ] Dang , V . , and Croft , W . B . Diversity by proportionality : an election based approach to search result diversification . In SIGIR ( 2012 ) , pp . 65{74 .
[ 13 ] Drosou , M . , and Pitoura , E . Search result diversification . SIGMOD Record 39 , 1 ( 2010 ) , 41{47 .
[ 14 ] Etzioni , O . , Fader , A . , Christensen , J . ,
Soderland , S . , and Mausam , M . Open information extraction : the second generation . In IJCAI ( 2011 ) , pp . 3{10 .
[ 15 ] Faloutsos , C . , McCurley , K . S . , and Tomkins , A . Fast discovery of connection subgraphs . In KDD ( 2004 ) , pp . 118{127 .
[ 16 ] Fang , L . , Sarma , A . D . , Yu , C . , and Bohannon , P . Rex : explaining relationships between entity pairs . VLDB Endowment 5 , 3 ( 2011 ) .
[ 17 ] Filippova , K . , Surdeanu , M . , Ciaramita , M . , and
Zaragoza , H . Company oriented Extractive Summarization of Financial News . In EACL ( 2009 ) , pp . 246{254 .
[ 18 ] Gray , W . S . , and Leary , B . E . What makes a book readable .
[ 19 ] Halaschek , C . , Aleman Meza , B . , Arpinar , I . B . , and Sheth , A . P . Discovering and ranking semantic associations over a large rdf metabase . In VLDB Endowment ( 2004 ) , pp . 1317{1320 .
[ 20 ] Hoffart , J . , Suchanek , F . M . , Berberich , K . ,
Lewis Kelham , E . , de Melo , G . , and Weikum , G . Yago2 : exploring and querying world knowledge in time , space , context , and many languages . In WWW ( 2011 ) , pp . 229{232 .
[ 21 ] Hristovski , D . , Friedman , C . , Rindflesch , T . C . , and Peterlin , B . Exploiting semantic relations for literature based discovery . In AMIA Annu Symp ( 2006 ) , vol . 2006 , pp . 349{353 .
[ 22 ] Hristovski , D . , Kastrin , A . , Peterlin , B . , and
Rindflesch , T . C . Combining semantic relations and dna microarray data for novel hypotheses generation . In BioLINK SIG . 2010 , pp . 53{61 .
[ 23 ] Jin , W . , Srihari , R . K . , Ho , H . H . , and Wu , X .
Improving knowledge discovery in document collections through combining text retrieval and link analysis techniques . In ICDM ( 2007 ) , pp . 193{202 .
[ 24 ] Kasneci , G . Searching and ranking in entity relationship graphs .
[ 25 ] Kasneci , G . , Ramanath , M . , Sozio , M . , Suchanek , F . M . , and Weikum , G . Star : Steiner tree approximation in relationship graphs . In ICDE ( 2009 ) , pp . 868{879 .
[ 26 ] Kintsch , W . , and Van Dijk , T . A . Toward a model of text comprehension and production . Psychological review 85 , 5 ( 1978 ) , 363{394 .
[ 27 ] Landauer , T . K . , Foltz , P . W . , and Laham , D .
An introduction to latent semantic analysis . Discourse processes 25 , 2 3 ( 1998 ) , 259{284 .
[ 28 ] Lin , C Y Rouge : A package for automatic evaluation of summaries . In ACL ( 2004 ) , pp . 74{81 .
[ 29 ] Liu , X . , Nie , Z . , Yu , N . , and Wen , J R
Biosnowball : automated population of wikis . In KDD ( 2010 ) , pp . 969{978 .
[ 30 ] Mani , I . Automatic summarization , vol . 3 . John
Benjamins Publishing , 2001 .
[ 31 ] Nakashole , N . , Weikum , G . , and Suchanek , F .
Patty : a taxonomy of relational patterns with semantic types . In EMNLP CoNLL ( 2012 ) , pp . 1135{1145 .
[ 32 ] Nenkova , A . , and McKeown , K . R . Automatic summarization . Now Publishers Inc , 2011 .
[ 33 ] Pitler , E . , and Nenkova , A . Revisiting readability :
A unified framework for predicting text quality . In EMNLP ( 2008 ) , pp . 186{195 .
[ 34 ] Sauper , C . , and Barzilay , R . Automatically generating wikipedia articles : a structure aware approach . In ACL IJCNLP ( 2009 ) , pp . 208{216 . [ 35 ] Srihari , R . K . , Xu , L . , and Saxena , T . Use of ranked cross document evidence trails for hypothesis generation . In KDD ( 2007 ) , pp . 677{686 .
[ 36 ] Srinivasan , P . Text mining : generating hypotheses from medline . JASIST 55 , 5 ( 2004 ) , 396{413 .
[ 37 ] Swanson , D . R . Two medical literatures that are logically but not bibliographically connected . JASIS 38 , 4 ( 1987 ) , 228{233 .
37
