Unsupervised Approach for Shallow Domain Ontology
Construction from Corpus
Subhabrata Mukherjee
Max Planck Institut für
Informatik smukherjee@mpi infmpgde
Jitendra Ajmera
IBM India Research Lab jajmera1@inibmcom
Sachindra Joshi
IBM India Research Lab jsachind@inibmcom
ABSTRACT In this work we propose an unsupervised approach to construct a domain specific ontology from corpus . It is essential for Information Retrieval systems to identify important domain concepts and relationships between them . We identify important domain terms of which multi words form an important component . Our approach identifies 40 % of the domain terms , compared to 22 % identified by WordNet on manually annotated smartphone data . We propose an approach to construct a shallow ontology from discovered domain terms by identifying four domain relations namely , Synonyms ( ‘similar to’ ) , Type Of ( ‘is a’ ) , Action On ( ‘methods’ ) and Feature Of ( ‘attributes’ ) , where we achieve an FScore of 49.14 % , 65.5 % , 65 % and 80 % respectively . Categories and Subject Descriptors H.0 [ Information Systems ] : General General Terms Knowledge Extraction , Ontologies
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Ontology is a knowledge base of structured lists of concepts , and their relations . Such knowledge representation is useful for the purpose of a variety of text analysis problems such as document similarity computation , search result re ranking and interactive dialogue systems . In this paper , we present an approach to automatically construct a shallow ontology from a domain corpus . Such corpus typically consists of a set of html or knowledge articles and pdf manuals . We view this domain ontology as a graph , where the nodes represent domain concepts and edges represent the relations among these concepts . We extract 4 types of relations namely , Feature Of , Action On , Type of and Synonyms . Figure 1 shows a snapshot of the constructed smartphone domain ontology using our approach .
Such domain ontology can be used to induce domain awareness in an information retrieval system , so that it takes into account the domain semantics of terms and their relationships , compared to the simple lexical matching of terms . Our work differs from related works as we focus to create such ontology from corpus automatically without using any
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577350 manually annotated resource like WordNet or supervision .
Our approach starts with finding important domain concepts where we exploit the parse tree structure of a slot grammar parser output . This is explained in Section 2 . Next , we consider the shallow semantic relationships ( SSR ) present among these domain concepts for finding the 4 ontology relations as explained in Section 3 .
Figure 1 : Snapshot of Constructed Smartphone Domain Ontology
Such domain specific discovery is required since manuallyconstructed resources like WordNet typically miss domain specific concepts and their relations . In our analysis we found that only 22.62 % percentage of domain concepts in the smartphone domain figured in the WordNet . Furthermore , only 10.53 % of domain relations were present .
2 . DOMAIN TERM DISCOVERY
The first step towards gathering insights about a new domain is to discover a list of important domain concepts , especially the multi word terms such as ‘Samsung Galaxy Tab’ , ‘Call log’ , ‘4g connection’ etc .
We make use of the parse tree structure of a slot grammar parser [ 2 ] output for this purpose . All the documents in the corpus are parsed using the slot grammar parser . Noun phrase chunking is done on the parser output to discover domain terms . This is achieved by finding frequent subtrees of noun nodes . A frequency thresholding step is performed to remove all the unnecessary and noisy entries in this list . Table 1 shows a snapshot of the domain terms discovered using the noun phrase chunking approach . The next step involves finding the four types of ontology relations among these discovered domain terms . To facilitate this step , the parser is made aware of the domain specific concepts by providing it a domain lexicon as input . index is used to get a set of similar candidates for a word based on similar SSR distribution in the corpus . samsung blackberry device software novatel software version application htc evo wi fi memory card bluetooth motorola kyocera browser voicemail microsoft exchange lg optimus
Table 1 : Snapshot of Multi Word Domain Terms Discovered using Noun Phrase Chunking
3 . DOMAIN RELATION DISCOVERY
Our approach to find the four types of ontology relations is based directly on the SSR relations extracted from the parser output . The SSR relations are of the following form : 1 . svo depicts a subject verb object tuple . For example : rel:svo:phone offer feature , rel:svo:phone show message etc . 2 . nnMod depicts noun noun modifications . For example : rel:nnMod:iPhone battery , rel:nnMod:screen icon etc . 3 . dm depicts actions on entities . For example : rel:dm obj:use phone , rel:dm comp:plug iPhone etc . 4 . npo depicts terms connected by prepositions . For example : subscription to service , battery on phone etc .
Action On ontology relation represents any activity ( method ) on a given domain term . For example , ‘charge’ and ‘display’ are activities on ‘battery’ and ‘menu’ , respectively . By definition , an Action On relation pair consists of a ‘verb’ that acts on a ‘noun’ . The SSR dm and svo help in Action On identification . Eg “ rel:svo:tap add account , rel:svo:phone access internet , rel:svo:mobile sync phone ”
Type Of relations depict Is A hierarchy ie a parentchild relation . For example : “ Samsung is a Type Of mobile ” , “ Internet Explorer is a Type Of browser , Angry Birds is a Type Of application etc . ” . In order to discover the Type Of clues , the svo and npo SSR ’s are used in conjunction with the Hearst [ 1 ] patterns ( eg verbs like include , prepositions like like , such as and as , etc ) Eg “ rel:svo:devices include HTC , rel:npo:applications such as
WhatsApp , rel:npo:features like call ” .
Feature Of relations depict components or functionalities of a domain term . For example : “ screen is a Feature Of mobile ” , “ wi fi is a Feature Of network ” , “ life is a Feature Of battery ” etc . In order to discover Feature Of relations we use the SSR ’s nnMod and svo . Eg “ rel:nnMod:network life , rel:nnMod:iPhone battery , rel:svo:motorola run devicesoftware , rel:svo:router decrease signal strength etc . ”
We define two words to be Synonyms if they appear in a similar context . Here , we follow the notion of relational distributional similarity [ 3 ] . Since it is computationally very expensive to go over all the word pairs to compute the distributional similarity , we use Random Indexing for dimensionality reduction as well as similarity computation .
Random Indexing ( RI ) [ 6 ] is a word co occurence based approach to statistical semantics . RI uses statistical approximations of the full word co occurence data to achieve dimensionality reduction , resulting in much quicker running time and fewer required dimensions . This facilitates fast computation of similarity between candidate domain terms as well as different relation discovery . It is scalable and allows for the incremental learning of context information .
However , as opposed to most of the previous works that consider raw neighborhood of a term for random indexing , we use only those neighboring terms to define the context for a target term that share a syntactic dependency ( given by the slot grammar parser ) with the target term . Random
Relation Feature Of Action On Type Of Table 2 : Precision Recall for 3 Relations
Precision 74.9 % 63.88 % 57 %
Recall 85.7 % 68 % 77 %
WordNet LCH RES JCN PATH LIN WUP LESK Our Approach
F Score 0.22 0.31 0.42 0.42 0.43 0.43 0.45 0.49
Table 3 : F Score Comparison of WordNet Similarity Measures with Our Approach for Synonyms
4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
We collected 5000 articles , tutorials and manuals from the smartphone domain . 500 word pairs for each of the four relations , resulting in 2000 word pairs , were manually annotated . Table 2 shows the precision recall figures for Feature Of , Action On and Type Of .
In our work , we use WordNet as the baseline for relation discovery . WordNet [ 4 ] could only discover 1 wordpair for Feature Of ( subset of the relations Meronymy and Holonymy ) and 74 word pairs for Type Of ( corresponding to the relations Hyponymy and Hypernymy ) . WordNet does not contain any relation corresponding to Action On .
A number of similarity measures are defined over the WordNet taxonomy that exploit distributional similarity to find the relatedness of 2 concepts . We considered 7 similarity measures from [ 5 ] as our baseline for Synonym discovery approach . Table 3 shows the F score comparison of different wordnet similarity measures with our approach . 5 . CONCLUSIONS
In this work , we propose an unsupervised approach to construct a shallow domain ontology from corpus . Unlike other existing approaches , we do not make use of manually annotated resources like WordNet or any mode of supervision , and still obtain better performance over WordNet . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . A . Hearst . Automatic Acquisition of Hyponyms from Large Text Corpora . In Proc . of 14th Conference on Computational Linguistics , 1992 .
[ 2 ] M . C . McCord and A . Bernth . Using slot grammar .
IBM Deutschland Informationssysteme GmbH Scientific Center Institute for Logic and Linguistics , 1992 .
[ 3 ] S . Mcdonald and M . Ramscar . Testing the distributional hypothesis . In Proc . of 23rd Annual Conference of Cognitive Science Society , 2001 .
[ 4 ] G . A . Miller . Wordnet : A lexical database for english .
COMMUNICATIONS OF THE ACM , 38 , 1995 .
[ 5 ] T . Pedersen and S . Patwardhan . Wordnet::similarity measuring the relatedness of concepts . 2004 .
[ 6 ] M . Sahlgren . Introduction to random indexing . Methods and Applicatons of Semantic Indexing Workshop , 2005 .
