iFeel : A Web System that Compares and Combines Sentiment Analysis Methods
Matheus Araújo
UFMG
Belo Horizonte , Brazil matheusaraujo@dccufmgbr
Meeyoung Cha
KAIST
Daejeon , Korea meeyoungcha@kaist.edu
Pollyanna Gonçalves
UFMG
Belo Horizonte , Brazil pollyannaog@dccufmgbr Fabrício Benevenuto
UFMG
Belo Horizonte , Brazil fabricio@dccufmgbr
ABSTRACT Sentiment analysis methods are used to detect polarity in thoughts and opinions of users in online social media . As businesses and companies are interested in knowing how social media users perceive their brands , sentiment analysis can help better evaluate their product and advertisement campaigns . In this paper , we present iFeel , a Web application that allows one to detect sentiments in any form of text including unstructured social media data . iFeel is free and gives access to seven existing sentiment analysis methods : SentiWordNet , Emoticons , PANAS t , SASA , Happiness Index , SenticNet , and SentiStrength . With iFeel , users can also combine these methods and create a new Combined Method that achieves high coverage and F measure . iFeel provides a single platform to compare the strengths and weaknesses of various sentiment analysis methods with a user friendly interface such as file uploading , graphical visualizing , and weight tuning .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences ; H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Web based services
General Terms Human Factors , Measurement
Keywords Sentiment analysis , Web applications , Comparison , Social media .
INTRODUCTION
1 . The extreme popularity of Online Social Networks ( OSNs ) has led people to share nearly everything on the Web such as opinions about a prominent public event , URLs , news , and daily conversations . This means massive amount of data are generated everyday on online platforms . In Twitter alone users posts more than 400
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2744 2/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577013 million messages daily as of March 2013 . Mining and utilizing such big social data hence can bring a number of new opportunities to businesses and markets .
Sentiment analysis is a popular method for mining OSN data and has many useful applications . It is common to find reviews or comments of products , services , events , and brand names on OSNs . From such unstructured data , sentiment analysis can reveal how people feel about a particular product or service , which is essential for businesses and companies . With the growing interest in both industry and academia , many tools and methods have been proposed for detecting sentiments embedded in text data including OpinionFinder [ 18 ] , ANEW [ 2 ] , PANAS t [ 11 ] , Emoticons , SentiWordNet [ 8 ] , Happiness Index [ 7 ] , SentiStrength [ 14 ] , SASA [ 16 ] , and SenticNet [ 1 ] .
A number of strategies and techniques have been used for sentiment analysis such as machine learning [ 12 ] , lexical dictionaries , natural language processing , and psychometric scales . The diversity of techniques results in differences in the types of sentiment categories each method reveals , assumptions made , and datasets used for validation . While each tool has its own strength and weakness , little effort has been paid on comparing them . In a previous work [ 10 ] , we compared 8 existing sentiment tools across two scales : coverage ( ie , the fraction of data whose sentiment is revealed ) and prediction performance ( ie , the fraction of data whose sentiment is correctly judged ) . No single method was a winner in terms of prediction performance , and each method had limited coverage . Based on these observations , we proposed a new approach , called Combined Method , that is a mix of 7 license free methods to yield high coverage and F measure .
Extending our initial effort to compare and combine existing sentiment analysis methods , this paper presents a Web tool called iFeel ( available at http://wwwifeeldccufmgbr ) iFeel gives easy access to existing tools for anyone to use . Such feature is useful for those who would like to try sentiment analysis without much prior knowledge . iFeel can also help researchers evaluate a new method by providing a single platform to access existing tools without having to implement them . For example , a researcher may evaluate his new lexical dictionary that is built for a specific task such as testing sentiments related to automobiles , for instance , sentiments related to how people feel driving through a traffic jam in a city or a rural road .
Compared to other Web applications [ 9,15 ] that also provide sentiment analysis , iFeel is unique in that it allows access to not just one but multiple methods for comparison . In particular , by allowing users to explicitly determine weights for combining different
75 methods for the Combined Method , users can optimize the coverage and F measure to meet their taste . For instance , one may increase the weight for SASA when handling data on politics , as SASA was initially tested on political debates . The iFeel system has an easy interface and allows users to either directly type in a message or upload a text file up to 10,000 lines of messages . The result of the sentiment analysis is presented both as numbers as well as graphical visualizations .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows . We first briefly describe the sentiment methods implemented in the iFeel system . We then describe how we built the Web tool by laying out its architectural overview and the interface design . Next we discuss the performance of the iFeel system based on a wide range of test examples . Finally , we conclude and discuss future work .
2 . SENTIMENT DETECTION METHODS Existing sentiment analysis tools cover different mood categories such as anger , happiness , fatigue , etc . In order to conduct apple toapple comparison , iFeel groups these varying scales of sentiments into two representative categories : positive affect and negative affect . This section describes how this adaptation was done for each method implemented in the iFeel system . 2.1 PANAS t PANAS t [ 11 ] is a psychometric scale for detecting mood fluctuations within Twitter and is based on another method , called Positive Affect Negative Affect Scale ( PANAS ) [ 17 ] , which was built for analyzing structured text . PANAS t covers eleven mood categories : joviality , assurance , serenity , surprise , fear , sadness , guilt , hostility , shyness , fatigue , and attentiveness , where the strength of the method is at tracking any increase or decrease in sentiment levels over time . We grouped joviality , assurance , serenity , and surprise as the positive affect ; fear , sadness , guilt , hostility , shyness , and fatigue as the negative affect . We exclude attentiveness , as it is considered to have neutral affect . 2.2 Emoticons This method extracts sentiments in texts using a large set of common emoticons like the smiley : ) filtered from Web that express positive and negative sentiments . The complete list of emoticons we considered are listed in [ 10 ] . 2.3 SentiWordNet SentiWordNet [ 8 ] is a tool that is widely used in opinion mining , and is based on an English lexical dictionary called WordNet . This lexical dictionary groups adjectives , nouns , verbs , and other grammatical classes into synonym sets called synsets . To assign polarity , we considered the average scores of all associated synsets of a given text . We then take the relative strength of positive and negative affect in a given text . 2.4 Happiness Index Happiness Index [ 7 ] is a sentiment scale based on the Affective Norms for English Words ( ANEW ) [ 2 ] , which is a collection of 1,034 words commonly used associated with their affective dimensions of valence , arousal , and dominance . Happiness Index is scaled between 1 and 9 , depending on the amount of happiness inferred from text . We consider the range between 1 to 4 as negative and the range of 5 to 9 as positive . 2.5 SentiStrength SentiStrength [ 14 ] is a mix of supervised and unsupervised classification methods , including simple logistic regression , SVM , J48 classification tree , JRip rule based classifier , SVM regression , and Naïve Bayes . This method extends the existing LIWC dictionary [ 13 ] , which is made for structured text , to include a wide range of OSN contexts . LIWC is a text analysis tool that evaluates , among cognitive and structural components , the emotional ( positive and negative affects ) of a given text . 2.6 SASA SailAil Sentiment Analyzer ( SASA ) [ 16 ] is based on machine learning techniques similar to SentiStrengh . The tool has been evaluated by the Amazon Mechanical Turk , where the turkers were recruited to label 17,000 Twitter messages related to the 2012 US Election as positive , negative , neutral , or undefined . In iFeel , we are using a model trained by authors of the method with a Naive Bayes classifier for detect positivity and negativity of a given text . 2.7 SenticNet SenticNet [ 5 ] is based on artificial intelligence and semantic Web techniques . The tool uses Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) techniques to create a polarity for nearly 14,000 concepts and was evaluated in measuring the level of polarity in opinions of patients about the National Health Service in England [ 3 ] . SenticNet uses the affective categorization model Hourglass of Emotions [ 4 ] that provides an approach that classify messages as positive and negative of a given text .
3 . THE IFEEL SYSTEM 3.1 System Design The high level workflow behind iFeel ’s components is depicted in Figure 1 . The flow of this architecture follows the steps through which a user takes when she uploads a file for sentiment analysis . The process begins when the logged in user , who uploads a file in the system ( Step 1 ) . This file must be in the format accepted by the system , which consists of messages delimited by line breaks . The user can monitor the processing status of the file in My Data page , previous showed in Figure 4 .
Figure 1 : Overview of the iFeel architecture
Upon completion of the file upload ( Step 2 ) , iFeel creates an asynchronous thread for the seven methods that concurrently process the file , where each process is devoted to the first seven sentiment analysis tools described in the previous section . Methods are executed in parallel and the output of each process is stored in
76 its own file ( Step 3 ) . Each process has its own rules in handling the data for the natural language processing of sentiment detection ( eg , parsing and cleaning texts , removing stop words , analyzing grammatical structures ) .
Because the existing methods cover different techniques such as from lexical base to machine learning , combining the results can achieve a highest coverage in sentiment analysis and relatively high prediction performance . This is what we call the CombinedMethod in iFeel . Coverage in sentiment detection represents the fraction of data whose sentiment is revealed and accuracy represents the fraction of data whose sentiment is correctly judged . The combination is made in the two steps ( Step 4 ) . First , for each line of the input file , take the result of each method . Second , give a higher weight for the method that obtained best F measure or exactly following the weights given by the user if there is any ( see Figure 4 ) . Finally , the results for existing sentiment methods and the Combined Method are stored in the output file ( Step 5 ) , which is then made available to the user in the My Data page along with graphical visualization to help user interpret the result ( Step 6 ) . 3.2 System Performance We measured the performance of iFeel in two ways . One is efficacy , which examines the gains from comparing and combining existing methods . Another is scalability , which tests how much time is needed to process big social data .
In terms of efficacy , we further consider two sub measures : accuracy and coverage , as described in the earlier section . The sentiment analysis methods in iFeel are each based on a different set of base techniques : some are based on lexical methods ( eg , PANASt , Emoticons , SentiWordNet and Happiness Index ) and others are based on machine learning ( eg , SentiStrength and SASA ) . These differences naturally lead to varying degrees of coverage and accuracy . The relationship between accuracy and coverage across all methods are shown in Figure 2 , indicating that no single method is a winner . Overall Combined Method achieves the highest level of coverage as well as relatively high F measures . This clearly demonstrates the need for combining and comparing various sentiment analysis methods .
Figure 2 : Trade off between the coverage vs F measure for methods , including the Combined method
Next , in order to test scalability of iFeel , we analyze the system capacity to handle a given size of input file . We used tweet data for test , which is popular data used for sentiment analysis . Figure 3 shows the CPU time for all methods across tweet files of increasing sizes , which are drawn from large tweet dataset in [ 6 ] . The tweet files have exponentially increasing number of tweets from 1,000 to 10 million . All tests were executed on a Dell Desktop , with Intel(R ) Xeon(R ) Processor ( 2.53GHz ) with 24 Cores , and 94 Gigabytes of RAM , in a Ubuntu version 12043
Figure 3 : Performance of iFeel as a function of input file size
The figure presents the methods sorted from faster to the slower . SentiStrength , SentiWordNet , and SenticNet were the methods that took the most time to execute . This result is crucial for the efficacy of iFeel , because it can limit the size of input data . The execution time varied from one method to another . SentiStrength , for example , took more than 115 seconds of CPU time when treating an input file that contained more than 100,000 tweets . SentiWordNet and SenticNet scaled better to handling nearly one million tweets . As we can see in the figure , all methods executed faster in datasets with less than 10,000 tweets . Given that an average person tweets a few times a day ( ie , known average is 1.85 tweets per day ) and has one hundred followers , 10,000 tweets could represent the amount of tweets a user reads in a given month . Overall , the test demonstrates that even when the size of the input file grows exponentially , the iFeel system does not require the same increasing amount of time for handling the input data .
4 . SYSTEM DEMONSTRATION We show a snapshot of the Web interface in Figure 4 , where a user has entered the message “ It ’s not that I hate you , I just strongly disagree with you =/ ” . We can see the sentiment analysis result of this message on the bottom of the input interface . iFeel visualizes how polarity of the given message is judged differently by existing sentiment analysis methods . As we can see , in this example all methods detected sentiments in the message . SentiWordNet , PANAS t and SASA detected positive sentiments , whereas the remaining methods detected negative sentiments . If we change our query to “ I never make the same mistake twice . Threefour times maybe , but never twice : ) ” , almost all methods tag the text as negative , Emoticons tagged it as positive and PANAS t did not detected any feeling .
For the Combined Method , users can fine tune the weights manually to optimize the coverage and F measure depending on the input . For instance , users may increase the weight for SASA if they are handling politics related data , because SASA was mainly trained for political debates . The demo video describes how a user can upload an input file and retrieve sentiment results with iFeel at http://wwwyoutubecom/watch?v=7NsT1E VWUY By publishing the iFeel tool free , we hope that future research and industry projects could easily utilize sentiment analysis .
5 . CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK While the need for sentiment analysis is growing , there has been little effort in comparing the various sentiment analysis methods .
77 Figure 4 : Screen snapshots of the iFeel system for two differen text input and user interface for fine tuning ( bottom of the figures )
This paper presented iFeel , a Web tool for measuring the level of positive affect and negative affects that is based on consolidation of 8 existing sentiment analysis tools including PANAS t , Emoticons , SentiWordNet , Happiness Index , SentiStrength , SASA , SenticNet , and Combined Method . The iFeel system employs user friendly interface , by allowing text input to be typed directly or uploaded as a text file . We believe anyone from those not keen on programming to researchers and companies interested in sentiment analysis can utilize the iFeel system as a useful online resource .
As a natural extension of this tool , we would like to add more existing methods for detecting sentiments such as OpinionFinder [ 18 ] and also expand the categories of sentiments beyond positive and negative affects , thereby including more sophisticated human moods like guilt , anger , and sarcasm . Futhermore , we would like to offer for future iFeel ’s users guidelines for better setting weights of methods , based in analysis and comparisons of each one in bigger and different databases .
Acknowledgements This work was funded by the Brazilian National Institute of Science and Technology for the Web ( MCT/CNPq/INCT grant number 573871/2008 6 ) and grants from CNPq , CAPES and FAPEMIG , as well as the Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the Ministry of Science , ICT & Future Planning ( 2011 0012988 ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Senticnet 20 http://senticnet/downloads/ [ 2 ] M . M . Bradley and P . J . Lang . Affective norms for English words
( ANEW ) : Stimuli , instruction manual , and affective ratings . Technical report , University of Florida , 1999 .
[ 3 ] E . Cambria , A . Hussain , C . Havasi , C . Eckl , and J . Munro . Towards crowd validation of the uk national health service . In ACM WebSci , 2010 .
[ 4 ] E . Cambria , A . Livingstone , and A . Hussain . The hourglass of emotions . Lecture Notes in Computer Science . Springer , 2011 .
[ 5 ] E . Cambria , R . Speer , C . Havasi , and A . Hussain . Senticnet : A publicly available semantic resource for opinion mining . In AAAI Fall Symposium Series , 2010 .
[ 6 ] M . Cha , H . Haddadi , F . Benevenuto , and K . P . Gummadi . Measuring User Influence in Twitter : The Million Follower Fallacy . In ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 7 ] P . S . Dodds and C . M . Danforth . Measuring the happiness of large scale written expression : songs , blogs , and presidents . Journal of Happiness Studies , 11(4):441–456 , 2009 .
[ 8 ] Esuli and Sebastiani . Sentwordnet : A publicly available lexical resource for opinion mining . In LREC , 2006 .
[ 9 ] A . Go , R . Bhayani , and L . Huang . Sentiment140 . http://wwwsentiment140com/
[ 10 ] P . Gonçalves , M . Araújo , F . Benevenuto , and M . Cha . Comparing and combining sentiment analysis methods . In COSN , 2013 .
[ 11 ] P . Goncalves , F . Benevenuto , and M . Cha . Panas t : A pychometric scale for measuring sentiments on twitter . CoRR , 2013 .
[ 12 ] X . Hu , L . Tang , J . Tang , and H . Liu . Exploiting social relations for sentiment analysis in microblogging . In WSDM , 2013 .
[ 13 ] Y . R . Tausczik and J . W . Pennebaker . The psychological meaning of words : Liwc and computerized text analysis methods . Journal of Language and Social Psychology , 29(1):24–54 , 2010 .
[ 14 ] M . Thelwall . Heart and soul : Sentiment strength detection in the social web with sentistrength , 2013 .
[ 15 ] M . Thelwall , K . Buckley , G . Paltoglou , C . Cai , and A . Kappas .
Sentistrength . http://wwwsentiment140com/
[ 16 ] H . Wang , D . Can , A . Kazemzadeh , F . Bar , and S . Narayanan . A system for real time Twitter sentiment analysis of 2012 US presidential election cycle . In ACL , pages 115–120 , 2012 .
[ 17 ] D . Watson and L . Clark . Development and validation of brief measures of positive and negative affect : the panas scales . Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , 54(1):1063–1070 , 1985 .
[ 18 ] T . Wilson , P . Hoffmann , S . Somasundaran , J . Kessler , J . Wiebe ,
Y . Choi , C . Cardie , E . Riloff , and S . Patwardhan . Opinionfinder : a system for subjectivity analysis . In EMNLP , 2005 .
78
