Detecting In Situ Identity Fraud on Social Network
Services : A Case Study on Facebook
1Shan Hung Wu , 2Man Ju Chou , 3Chun Hsiung Tseng , 2Yuh Jye Lee , and 4Kuan Ta Chen∗†
1Dept . of Computer Science , National Tsing Hua University
2Dept . of Computer Science , National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
3Dept . of Information Management , Nanhua University
4Inst . of Information Science , Academia Sinica
ABSTRACT In this paper , we propose to use a continuous authentication approach to detect the in situ identity fraud incidents , which occur when the attackers use the same devices and IP addresses as the victims . Using Facebook as a case study , we show that it is possible to detect such incidents by analyzing SNS users’ browsing behavior . Our experiment results demonstrate that the approach can achieve reasonable accuracy given a few minutes of observation time .
1 . OVERVIEW
Many people use Social Networking Services ( SNSs ) like daily , and link a lot of personal and sensitive information to their SNS accounts . The information generally includes friend lists , feeds from friends , non public posts/photos , private interactions with acquaintances ( such as chats and messages ) , and purchased apps/items . The obvious value of such information makes SNS accounts one of the most targeted online resources by hackers . SNS sites have made significant efforts to prevent identity fraud and protect users’ privacy . For example , Facebook records the regular IP addresses and devices used by each account . If an unusual IP address or device is used to log in to an account , the user is asked to answer some secret questions [ 1 ] or enter a security code sent to the account owner ’s mobile device [ 2 ] in order to verify if the login is authentic . Facebook also allows users to report account theft manually if they suspect their accounts have been compromised .
Despite all the efforts to prevent identity fraud , user privacy can be compromised by another form of breach called in situ identity fraud —unauthorized , stealthy use of SNS accounts by attackers using the same device and network connection as the account owners . Different from other forms ∗ †
Contact e mail address : ktchen@iissinicaedutw This work was partly supported by National Science Council , National Taiwan University and Intel Corporation under Grants NSC101 2221 E 001 012 MY3 , NSC102 2911 I 002001 , and NTU103R7501 .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577308 of identify fraud , anyone can perform in situ identity fraud without any technology hacks . For example , anxious parents may use their children ’s SNS accounts to spy on the children ’s social status ; or husbands/wives may check their spouses’ SNS accounts if they suspect infidelity . Similarly , colleagues , supervisors , friends , and siblings , may use acquaintances’ accounts for different reasons when there is a chance .
In situ identity fraud is widespread for a number of reasons . First , people tend to choose “ yes ” when the browsers on their own computers ask if they want to save their ( SNS ) passwords for automatic logins in the future . This is especially true when people use their mobile devices because inputting passwords is inconvenient [ 10 , 7 ] . Mobile devices make in situ identity fraud easy in other ways , as they can be physically accessed by acquaintances or strangers [ 11 ] , and most of them are not locked by PINs [ 5 ] . In addition , many SNS sites use cookies to avoid the need for account authentication within a short period of time . For example , once logged into Facebook , a user does not need to log in again for up to 60 days [ 3 ] . Given the above drawbacks , if someone ( usually an acquaintance ) can access an SNS user ’s computer or mobile device , it is unlikely that he will need a technical background to obtain the information associated with the SNS account .
In this paper , we investigate the in situ identity fraud problem in SNSs , and propose a continuous authentication approach [ 8 , 9 ] that analyzes users’ browsing behavior to detect such incidents . Using Facebook as a case study , we show that it is possible to detect this special type of attacks on SNS sites by analyzing users’ browsing behavior , for example clicks on newsfeeds , friend lists , profiles , likes , messages , photos/videos , and comments . The results demonstrate that the proposed scheme can achieve more than 80 % accuracy with a high degree of confidence within 2 minutes , and over 90 % after 7 minutes of observation time .
2 . DETECTION SCHEME
SNS services are not simply places for people to maintain their friend lists . They are more like platforms where people can engage various social activities , such as posting details of their own status , reading other users’ comments on the news , chatting , and meeting new people . Some studies [ 4 , 6 ] suggest that there is no typical user behavior pattern on a complicated , open platform like Facebook , as every user seems to behave differently on an SNS service . For example , some people use SNSs to satisfy their desire for selfpromotion , so they spend most of their time sharing the latest information about their status and posting the latest photos/events . On the other hand , some people may want to make new friends online , chat with old friends , or spend time discovering new social games ; and some may want to stalk certain other users .
In the context of in situ identity fraud , an SNS user can be classified as fulfilling one of the following roles : 1 ) an owner , which means the person uses his own account ; 2 ) an acquaintance ( as a stalker ) , who uses the account of someone he knows ; or 3 ) a stranger ( as a stalker ) , who uses the account of a person he does not know . Intuitively , when owners check their Facebook newsfeeds , they should focus more on the latest information posted by friends and use the “ like ” or “ share ” function to interact with others . By contrast , when a stalker ( either an acquaintance or a stranger ) browses a newsfeed , he may be more interested in old information about the stalker and/or the account holder . Also , the stalker generally do not interact with others to avoid discovery by the account holder about the identity fraud . In summary , we believe that users’ behavior varies in different roles for the following reasons : ( cid:129 ) The way people treat familiar information ( and information from close friends ) would be different than the way they treat unfamiliar information .
( cid:129 ) People in different roles have different intentions . ( cid:129 ) To avoid detection by the account owners , stalkers tend to not make any interaction with others . Also , they may have limited time to commit in situ identity fraud so their browsing behavior would be even more different .
We define the above differences in SNS users’ browsing behavior as role driven behavioral diversity , which serves the rationale behind the proposed detection scheme .
Figure 1 provides an overview of the detection scheme . After a user logs in with a stored credential or existing authentication cookies ( Step 1 ) , the SNS server monitors and records the user ’s actions for an observation period of n minutes , where n is a configurable parameter ( Step 2 ) . At the end of the observation period , the server extracts the features of the monitored session based on the recorded actions ( Step 3 ) . It then feeds the session features which characterize users browsing behavior , into a classification model ( Step 4 ) , which determines if the session owner is suspicious by predicting the label of the session ( Step 5 ) . If the predicted label is “ stalker , ” the SNS server can challenge the user by asking secret questions or via a second channel , such as the account owner ’s mobile phone ( Step 6 ) . Alternatively , the server can implement a more sophisticated , but costly , detection scheme .
3 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we have proposed a low cost continuous authentication scheme for SNSs that analyzes users’ browsing behavior to detect in situ identity fraud incidents . Using Facebook as a case study , we show that 1 ) the role driven behavioral diversity property does exist ; 2 ) the property can be exploited to design a low cost detection scheme that is applicable to all users ; and 3 ) the scheme is hard to evade and it renders a reasonable detection performance after an observation period of 2 minutes .
We believe that the in situ identity fraud problem , which has not been widely studied , will become more critical in the
User
SNS Client
SNS Server
Detection Model
( 1 ) Start session .
( 2 ) Collect actions for n minutes
( 6 ) If yes , challenge user .
( 3 ) Extract features
( 4 ) Feed inn
( 5 ) Suspicious ? .
Figure 1 : The flow chart of the detection scheme . future as people store increasing amounts of sensitive information online . In fact , the problem may also occur in email services like Gmail and Outlook ; time management services like Google Calendar and Remember The Milk ; and photo album services like Instagram . Asking users to authenticate themselves repeatedly during the use of the services is infeasible in practice due to usability issues . Thus , continuous authentication seems to be a reasonable way to prevent attacks of this kind .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Josh Constine . Facebook has users identify friends in photos to verify accounts , prevent unauthorized access . http://wwwinsidefacebookcom/2010/07/26/ facebook photos verify/ , 2010 .
[ 2 ] Josh Constine . Facebook asks every user for a verified phone number to prevent security disaster . http : //techcrunch.com/2012/06/14/facebook security tips/ , 2012 .
[ 3 ] Facebook . Removal of offline access permission . https://developersfacebookcom/roadmap/ offline access removal/ .
[ 4 ] Keith Hampton . Social networking sites and our lives part
2 : Who are social networking site users ? http://pewinternet.org/Reports/2011/ Technology and social networks/Part 2/ Facebook activities.aspx , 2011 .
[ 5 ] Ed Hansberry . Most consumers don’t lock mobile phone via
PIN . http://wwwinformationweekcom/mobility/security/ most consumers dont lock mobile phone vi/231700155 , 2011 .
[ 6 ] Adam N Joinson . Looking at , looking up or keeping up with people ? : motives and use of Facebook . In Proc . of ACM CHI 2008 , pages 1027–1036 , 2008 .
[ 7 ] Paul Mah . Stored passwords add to mobile security risks . http://wwwitbusinessedgecom/cm/blogs/mah/ stored passwords add to mobile security risks/?cs= 47183 , 2011 .
[ 8 ] Maja Pusara and Carla E Brodley . User re authentication via mouse movements . In Proc . of the ACM Workshop on Visualization and data mining for computer security , pages 1–8 , 2004 .
[ 9 ] SJ Shepherd . Continuous authentication by analysis of keyboard typing characteristics . In European Convention on Security and Detection , pages 111–114 , 1995 .
[ 10 ] Credant Technologies . Phone data makes 4.2 million* brits vulnerable to ID theft . http : //wwwcredantcom/news a events/press releases/ 69 phone data makes 42 million brits vulnerable to id theft . html .
[ 11 ] Roger Yu . Lost cellphones added up fast in 2011 . http://usatoday30usatodaycom/tech/news/story/ 2012 03 22/lost phones/53707448/1 , 2012 .
