Volunteer powered Automatic Classification of Social
Media Messages for Public Health in AIDR
Muhammad Imran
Qatar Computing Research Institute
Doha , Qatar mimran@qforgqa
Carlos Castillo Qatar Computing Research Institute
Doha , Qatar chato@acm.org
ABSTRACT Microblogging platforms such as Twitter have become a valuable resource for disease surveillance and monitoring . Automatic classification can be used to detect disease related messages and to sort them into meaningful categories . In this paper , we show how the AIDR ( Artificial Intelligence for Disaster Response ) platform can be used to harvest and perform analysis of tweets in real time using supervised machine learning techniques . AIDR is a volunteer powered online social media content classification platform that automatically learns from a set of human annotated examples to classify tweets into user defined categories . In addition , it automatically increases classification accuracy as new examples become available . AIDR can be operated through a web interface without the need to deal with the complexity of the machine learning methods used .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; D22 [ Software Engineering ] : Design Tools and Techniques
Keywords Stream processing , Crowdsourcing , Classification , Epidemics
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent years , methods for monitoring disease out breaks using using machine learning techniques on Twitter data have been tested . These methods are typically based on content classification or clustering [ 6 , 2 ] , and have been validated by contrasting them with data from health agencies , eg by [ 1 ] .
Real time information processing to find specific content within rapidly growing stacks of information pose many challenges . For instance , applying content classification techniques on short bursts of text ( eg , on 140 character “ tweets ” ) is significantly more difficult than performing the same task
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579279 on large documents such as blog posts or news articles [ 5 ] . Moreover , relying only on machines cannot guarantee accuracy , at some point human intelligence is required to provide training examples to automatic algorithms , or for the tasks that can not be automated .
This paper shows how the AIDR1 ( Artificial Intelligence for Disaster Response ) platform can be used to classify Twitter messages for public health monitoring . AIDR is an easyto use web based platform designed to allow analysts to collect and classify microblog posts . More specifically , AIDR classifies tweets into a set of user defined categories of information . The platform continuously ingests data , processes it ( ie , using machine learning classification techniques ) , and leverages human intelligence ( with the help of volunteers ) , when required [ 3 ] .
As a proof of concept , in the next section we show how AIDR can be used to rapidly set up a flu detector on Twitter . We break down various steps involved in setting up the platform for this task . Moreover , we show how volunteers can be involved , and with the help of active learning , help to increase classification accuracy as time passes .
2 . MONITORING FLU RELATED TWEETS
USING AIDR
AIDR operates in three steps : ( i ) information collection , ( ii ) acquisition of human tagged examples , and ( iii ) automatic classification of messages .
In this example , we first use AIDR to capture all messages that are posted on Twitter containing the keyword “ flu ” or having the hashtag “ #fluseason ” ( other user defined terms can be used ) . Certainly , this approach introduces noise in our collection , ie , messages which contain our query terms , but do not help in enhancing situational awareness [ 7 , 4 ] about flu . Next , we set up an automatic classifier to filter out and discard those messages . Figure 1 depicts AIDR ’s user interface , ( a ) the collector definition and ( b ) the crowdsourcing interface . 2.1 Collecting candidate messages
AIDR exposes a web based interface to define a search query including a set of keywords and a language ( eg English ) . Within 7 hours , after starting our AIDR collector , we were able to collect around 25K tweets . Looking at the collected tweets , we can clearly see that many do not enhance situational awareness about flu :
1http://aidrqcriorg
• Dear sir dr , antibiotic is not candy and flu ing man is not crying girls
• Oh hell ya got my exam rescheduled till Tuesday .
Only up side about having the flu lol
• Mornin’ , I might get hit upside the head for this but I hope this flu Mr.Taylor has last longer so we can have more subs
While , for instance , the following messages do enhance situational awareness :
• According to the California Department of Public Health , we are experiencing a severe flu season . Remember to http:///
• People urged to get vaccinated as coming flu epidemic predicted – The Connexion http:///
2.2 Acquiring human tagged examples
The next step is to involve humans to tag a sub set of messages . The AIDR user creates the categories ( in our case “ Enhances situational awareness about flu ” and “ Does not enhance situational awareness about flu ” ) . Then , AIDR creates a crowdsourcing task in the Pybossa platform2 , which is an open source crowdsourcing system . A team of volunteers can then proceed to do the tagging . In the default setting , AIDR requires 3 volunteers to tag a message , and messages are assigned with a category once 2 out of 3 volunteers agree . The resulting messages are passed back to AIDR . 2.3 Enabling automatic classification of messages
In our proof of concept , tagging was done by one of the authors of this paper . After receiving approximately 50 tagged messages , AIDR automatically creates a classifier . For testing purposes , AIDR considers 25 % of the tagged examples as a test set , and rest of the examples as a training set . During these experiments , we achieved ≈75 % classification accuracy ( measured using AUC ) using 200 labels , that also depends on the complexity of categories .
We remark that many other classification taxonomies can be used . For instance , once that messages enhancing situational awareness are identified , they can be further subdivided into eg those posted by agencies vs . those posted by individual users , those describing symptoms experienced vs . those describing treatment options used , and so on .
3 . CONCLUSION
Microblog messages can provide valuable information for public health purposes . The volume and speed of the data means automatic methods are necessary to process it . The complexity and brevity of the messages means human intervention is usually necessary . Supervised machine learning methods powered by crowdsourcing labels provide an excellent combination of the best of human and machine intelligence . However , setting up them can be difficult for the non expert . AIDR lowers the barrier of entry by providing a simple web interface where the analyst can quickly set up a collection and automatic classification system . The short time needed to set up this up , and the flexibility provided by this application , may lead to actionable information earlier than if this were to be set up by other means . 2http://pybossaqcriorg/
Figure 1 : User interface of AIDR .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Bodnar and M . Salath´e . Validating models for disease detection using twitter . In Proc . PHDA workshop , 2013 .
[ 2 ] C . D . Corley , D . J . Cook , A . R . Mikler , and K . P .
Singh . Text and structural data mining of influenza mentions in web and social media . Int . J . of Environmental Research and Public Health , 7(2):596–615 , 2010 .
[ 3 ] M . Imran , C . Castillo , J . Lucas , M . Patrick , and
V . Sarah . AIDR : Artificial intelligence for disaster response . In Proc . WWW ( Demos ) . ACM , 2014 .
[ 4 ] M . Imran , S . M . Elbassuoni , C . Castillo , F . Diaz , and
P . Meier . Extracting information nuggets from disaster related messages in social media . In Proc . of ISCRAM , Baden Baden , Germany , 2013 .
[ 5 ] C . Li , J . Weng , Q . He , Y . Yao , A . Datta , A . Sun , and
B S Lee . TwiNER : named entity recognition in targeted twitter stream . In Proc . of SIGIR , pages 721–730 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 6 ] K . W . Prier , M . S . Smith , C . Giraud Carrier , and C . L . Hanson . Identifying health related topics on twitter . In Social computing , behavioral cultural modeling and prediction , pages 18–25 . Springer , 2011 .
[ 7 ] S . Vieweg , A . L . Hughes , K . Starbird , and L . Palen .
Microblogging during two natural hazards events : what twitter may contribute to situational awareness . In Proc . of SIGCHI , pages 1079–1088 . ACM , 2010 .
( a ) Collector definition(b ) Crowdsourcing interface
