Taking Brazil ’s Pulse : Tracking Growing Urban Economies from Online Attention
Carmen Vaca Ruiz†‡∗
Daniele Quercia+ Luca Maria Aiello+ Piero Fraternali‡ cvaca@fiecespoleduec , {dquercia,alucca}@yahoo inc.com , pierofraternali@polimiit
†Escuela Superior Politecnica del Litoral
Guayaquil,Ecuador
‡Politecnico di Milano
Milan , Italy
+Yahoo Labs
Barcelona , Spain
ABSTRACT Urban resources are allocated according to socio economic indicators , and rapid urbanization in developing countries calls for updating those indicators in a timely fashion . The prohibitive costs of census data collection make that very difficult . To avoid allocating resources upon outdated indicators , one could partly update or complement them using digital data . It has been shown that it is possible to use social media in developed countries ( mainly UK and USA ) for such a purpose . Here we show that this is the case for Brazil too . We analyze a random sample of a microblogging service popular in that country and accurately predict the GDPs of 45 Brazilian cities . To make these predictions , we exploit the sociological concept of glocality , which says that economically successful cities tend to be involved in interactions that are both local and global at the same time . We indeed show that a city ’s glocality , measured with social media data , effectively signals the city ’s economic well being .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Sytems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
Keywords microblogging ; online attention ; urban indicators ; social network analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Developing countries are experiencing increasing rates of urbanization . The 1.4 billion people living in the developing world ’s cities are expected to increase by 96 percent by 2030 , according to the report published by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund this year1 . Urbanization will exacerbate the problem of inequality . To partly fix inequality , financial resources need to be invested , yet those
∗This work was carried out while Carmen Vaca Ruiz was an intern at Yahoo Labs , Barcelona . 1http://wwwworldbankorg/
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482576932
Figure 1 : Graph showing the geographical locations of worlwide users who paid or received attention ( ie , reposted content ) to/from cities considered in this study . Edges with low weights are not shown . resources are scarce , and their allocation needs to be as targeted as possible [ 4 ] . To do so , one needs to profile city areas using socio demographic factors .
In most developing countries , economic indicators at city level are often outdated [ 10 ] . A way to solve this problem is to estimate cities’ indicators from online data . Previous studies have shown that one could partly track socioeconomic indicators from digital data , and do so in a timely fashion . Eagle et al . [ 7 ] analyzed a mobile phone calls network in UK showing that user ’s network diversity is associated with economical advantage . More recently , researchers showed that the sentiment extracted from tweets is correlated with the economic well being of London neighbourhoods ( r = .37 ) [ 14 ] . Yet , those studies have been conducted only in developed countries such as USA and UK . We , thus , focus on Brazil , a developing country that has become the second biggest market , outside US , for social media sites such as Twitter2 . We get hold of social media data from Yahoo Meme and examine the relationship between economic indicators and levels of attention paid to content produced by the residents of different cities , where attention is defined as the interest raised by user generated content ( as reflected by reposting content ) .
To conduct our analysis , we build upon the concept of glocality [ 27 , 28 ] , the combination of global and local interactions in which a city is involved . We propose indicators
2http://thenextweb.com/twitter/2013/01/16/twitter toopen office in brazil its second biggest market after the usin accounts
Figure 2 : Number of users in our sample versus number of Internet users . Both quantities are log transformed .
Property
Number of users
Number of posts
Number of reposts
Number of comments
Number of reposts cascades
Value
80K
13.1M
22M
4M
1.4M
Number repost edges between cities
25K
Table 1 : Yahoo Meme dataset statistics . to estimate the glocality of a city by studying interactions between global and local users . In particular , we instantiate the concept of interactions going beyond simple activity measures by considering the attention received , collectively , by a city ’s residents on the platform ( attention on individual posts is aggregated at the level of city ) . In so doing , we make two main contributions :
• We propose a set of online attention metrics that act as a proxy of the city glocality by quantifying the ability of its residents to interact globally while maintaining strong local links . We correlate a city ’s GDP per capita with the attention received by their residents and find that it is correlated with local attention and global attention ( Section 4 ) .
• We put together the proposed online indicators to predict the economic capital of cities . We find that our models fit well the data and predict GDP with Adjusted R2 = 0.94 ( Section 5 ) .
2 . DATASET
Yahoo Meme was a microblogging platform , similar to Twitter , with the exception that users could post content of any length or type ( text , pictures , audio , video ) , being text and pictures the more frequently posted content . In addition to posting , users could also follow other users , repost others’ content , and comment on it . In this study , we use a random sample of interactions on Yahoo Meme from its birth in 2009 until the day it was discontinued in 2012 ( Table 1 ) . Despite its moderate popularity in USA , Yahoo Meme was popular in Brazil , as witnessed by the fact that the top 45 cities in terms of number of interactions are all located there . Reposting was the main activity in the service ( 22M sample records ) compared to comments ( 4M ) . We extract the users who posted the content in our sample and georeference them based on their IP addresses using a Yahoo service . We remove the users for whom we did not obtain results at city level ( eg users employing proxy servers to connect to the Internet ) leaving us with 80K users . For this set of users and their respective posts , we extract all the repost cascades .
To attain geographic representability , we ascertain that the number of users in the top Brazilian cities in our dataset is significantly correlated with the number of Internet users ( Figure 2).We build predictions models for two sets : the first consists only of cities that are within the confidence interval ; and the second consists of all the 45 cities . We will see the results will not change and that , in both cases , they are statistically significant . That is because we are left with 1.4M repost cascades whose original content was produced in the 45 cities and was consumed across the world ( Figure 1 ) .
3 . GLOCAL : GLOBAL+LOCAL
Glocalization is a concept that refers to the combination of local and global interactions as two sides of the same coin . Barry Wellman used the term glocal to qualify communication patterns observed over interactions through the Internet [ 27 , 28 ] . Wellman states that online interactions enrich our network capital by strengthening local links and providing access to global information and to distant circles : people who use more the Internet both know better their neighbours and have a higher number of distant ties [ 27 ] .
Glocality not only characterizes people with a strong online presence but also successful cities . Prosperous cities are associated with rich local and global interactions : London , for example , has been characterized as a city where the interweaving of local and global is intense [ 6 ] . In our case , interactions between people take place online and consist of generating and reposting content : one user is publishing content and another user is paying attention to it . We use the ability of attracting attention to derive metrics that characterize cities . In this section , we present the definition of attention , justify attention as the base of our metrics , and propose metrics for the global and local dimensions of attention received by a city ’s users .
2022242628303234363840424446Log( No . Meme users )3234363840424446485052545658606264Log( No . Internet users )AmericanaBauruBelemBelo HorizonteBlumenauBrasiliaCampinasCampo GrandeCascavelCaxias do SulChapecoCotiaCuiabaCuritibaFlorianopolisFortalezaGoianiaGuarulhosItaperunaJoao PessoaJoinvilleLondrinaMaceioManausMaringaNatalNiteroiNovo HamburgoParagominasPelotasPorto AlegrePorto VelhoRecifeRibeirao PretoRio de JaneiroSalvadorSanta MariaSanto AndreSantosSao Jose dos CamposSao LuisSao PauloTaboao da SerraTeresinaUberlandia Figure 4 : Tree like repost cascade . On the left , there is an example cascade , which is rooted at the content originator . On the right , a real repost cascade from our dataset .
In this section , we elaborate on the importance of world class cities to connect with each other and broker information .
Rest of the World . In his book titled “ The triumph of the city ” , Glaesser showed that Brazil , China and India are very likely to become far richer over the next fifty years [ 8 ] , and this wealth will be created by cities that are connected to the rest of the world and not by those that are isolated . To paraphrase these intuitions in our context , we define our first global attention metric for city i . This is called Rest of the World ’s attention paid to city i ( ROWi ) and is defined as the number of reposts that city i has attracted from the rest of the world , normalized with respect to the total number ni of users in that city : ROWi = outi , where outi ni is the number of times a post originated in city i has been reposted outside it . Brokerage . Cities that foster global flows not only have good network connectivity but they may also connect other cities with each other . Sao Paulo , for example , is a strategic place for firms that want to join the Brazilian emerging market . Short et al . have named these cities ‘gateways cities’ . Such places foster globalization while taking advantage of their position for their own growth [ 20 ] . We quantify the gateway capacity of a city with brokerage attention . This captures the extent to which a city mediates the flow of information to other cities . One way of quantifying such a tendency is to take the city attention graph G as defined earlier ( Figure 3 ) , and compute centrality measures , brokeragei = centrality(G , i ) , where centrality is a function that returns one of these three metrics : eigenvector centrality , betweenness centrality and PageRank for the graph G and the city i . Cascade . The last metric quantifies the ability of a city ’s users to produce content that spreads far away in the social graph . We take all the posts originated in city i and , for each post k of those , we build a cascade graph ( described in the previous Section ) and compute the longest direct path in it ( max depthk ) . Depth of the diffusion tree of a post indicates multiple levels of exchange and constitutes a signal of successful information diffusion for that post [ 2 ] . Given the skewness of the distributions , we use the geometric average to aggregate the depth values at the level of city . cascadei = max depthk
 k∈Pi
1/|Pi|
Figure 3 : Attention graph whose nodes are cities and whose weighted edges reflect the intensity of reposting between cities’ users .
From interactions to city level attention . Attention is the currency used by members of social media platforms to either reward the effort of producing new content or manifest interest in what is published .
Since attention is a scarce resource , content published in social media attracts very different levels of it [ 1 , 5 , 12 , 16 ] . Previous studies have shown that attention is not fully captured by simple metrics such as activity ( number of posts ) or popularity ( number of followers , PageRank in the follower network ) [ 1 , 5 ] . As a result , Romero et al . , for example , used the amount of retweets as part of their Influence Passivity measure [ 16 ] . In a similar way , we focus on content transmission reflected by the act of reposting . The choice of attention over activity will prove to be fruitful : we will show that GDP indeed correlates with attention metrics but not with activity ones ( Section 4 ) . To quantify the attention received by users , two graphs are built :
Attention graph . The city attention graph is built using reposts interactions . This is a weighted directed graph where nodes are cities , and directed weighted edges ( i , j , w ) represent the volume w of reposts between city j where the reposter lives , and city i where the original poster lives . In this graph , self edges are allowed as many reposts occur between users living in the same city . The resulting attention graph has 1,310 nodes and 25K weighted edges ( Figure 3 ) . Cascade graph . A tree for each post is also built ( Figure 4 ) . The tree ’s root represents the original poster and its edges connect those who have reposted that content at different points in time . We analyze 1.4M trees with average depth of 341
These two graphs are used to quantify attention with met rics described next .
3.1 Global attention
Cities that enable global information flow are key actors in the world economy [ 17 ] . Such cities are , for example , the chosen place for the headquarters of international firms , or the destination of mass tourism . These cities do not exist in isolation [ 17 ] , as they have strong connections to other cities . where Pi is the set of posts whose producers live in city i . 3.2 Local attention
Successful cities not only offer their residents opportunities for global connections but also foster local connections by , for example , having a variety of ‘third places’ ( eg , coffee places , gyms ) where people gather and enjoy the company originator reposter reposter reposter of reposter Depth=2 ( a ) ( b ) of neighbors or even strangers [ 11 ] . More generally , the intervening opportunities hypothesis states that the number of persons moving to a given distance is inversely proportional to the number of intervening opportunities [ 22 ] . In the context of attention given to online content , this theory translates into saying that community members will devote considerable attention to content produced close to the city where they live , if that city offers considerable intervening opportunities , that is , is economically prosperous . To quantify this intuition , given a post originated in city i , we consider its producer and all the actors who expressed interest in it ( ie , reposted it ) . We compute the average geographic distance between the producer and the consumers , using the Haversine formula that accounts for the spherical shape of the Earth [ 19 ] , and define the geographical reach of a post k as : geo reachk =
1 |Rk| j∈Rk where Rk is the set of reposts of k and , for each repost , dkj is the distance between city i ( where post k was originated ) and city j ( where the repost was generated ) . We compute these values upon the complete traces of the reposting cascade , avoiding any data bias . Then , we take all the posts originated in the city i , and aggregate their geographical reach values geo reachk using the geometric average . This indicator is considered inversely : the lower the average distance , the more local the attention received .
  k∈Pi
1/|Pi|−1 locali = geo reachk post cascade whereas intra city is limited to the reposts attracted inside the city .
To account for skewness , all the attention metrics are logtransformed before calculating the correlations with each of the cities’ GDP . The results obtained are statistically significant , at least with p value < 005 Why attention and not simply activity . Previous studies have shown [ 5 , 12 , 16 ] that simple activity metrics not fully capture the production of quality content , and that is why we opted for metrics capturing attention . Indeed , if we were to consider the simplest activity measure ( ie , number of posts per capita in a city ) and correlate it with the city ’s GDP , we would find no correlation at all ( r = 0.061 ) , experimentally supporting our initial theoretical choice . The absence of correlations is caused by cities with low GDPs that happen to have high activity but low attention .
We model GDP of cityi as a linear combination of the four attention metrics . We control for the city ’s Internet penetration rate and population ( with data provided by the Brazilian census bureau in 20103 ) . We control for those two variables as Internet penetration is associated with online activity , and larger cities tend to be economically prosperous as they enjoy “ increasing returns to scale ” : a city becomes more attractive and productive as it grows [ 8 ] . Model 1 is defined as follows : log(GDPi ) = α + β1 · log(locali ) + β2 · log(ROWi)+ β3 · log(brokeragei ) + β4 · log(cascadei)+ +ρ · log(P opulationi ) + +µ · Interneti + i
( 1 ) dij
5 . PREDICTING ECONOMIC CAPITAL where Pi is the set of posts whose producer lives in i .
We also consider a simpler local metric defined as the number of reposts ini that the city i has attracted from its residents , normalized with respect to the total number ni of users in that city : intra cityi = ini ni 4 . ATTENTION AND GDP
Based on the literature ( Section 3 ) , we test the hypothesis that GDP ( wealth creation ) positively correlates with the following features of cities : H1 . Attention from ROW . We correlate GDP per capita with global attention and find that it positively correlates with ROW , the attention received from the rest of the world ( r = 042 ) H2 . Brokerage Attention . We correlate GDP per capita with each of our three centrality measures , obtaining r = 0.41 for eigenvector centrality , r = 0.39 for betweenness centrality and r = 0.30 for Pagerank . H3 . Attention Cascades . We select the cascades with diameter greater than 1 ( ie , successful propagations at least two hops away ) and correlate cascade attention with the GDP per capita and obtain a correlation of r = 041 H4 . Attention from local users . GDP per capita and attention from residents ( local ) are expected to exhibit a positive correlation : indeed they display a positive correlation coefficient of r = 056 We also correlate GDP per capita with intra city and find that they are positively correlated ( r = 041 ) Thus , the metric local captures better the extent to which a city attracts attention from people in near locations . It is so because local reflects the geographical span of the entire re where Interneti is the city ’s Internet ’s penetration rate , P opulationi is the city ’s population , and i is the error term . To account for the skewness of the data , we log transformed each variable .
We also build the Model 2 adding the Interactionsim ( Table 2 ) that accounts for all possible pairwise product terms among the four attention predictors .
The models have been built for the two sets of cities in our study and the Adj R2 is similar using either of these sets . We observe that , in Model 1 , the four attention metrics complement the predictive power of the census data , Adj R2 is 0.94 ( Table 2 ) with a 47.90 % of the variance explained by the census data and the remaining 52.10 % by the attention metrics .
By analyzing the beta coefficients of Model 1 , the one with the best performance , we find that local attention accounts for 6.86 % of the models’ explanatory power while the aggregated β values of the three global attention metrics contribute with 4524 % Out of the three global attention metrics , cascade attention has the highest impact as it explains 24.50 % of GDP ’s variance . As for Model1 ’s accuracy , the model achieves a Mean Absolute Error ( MAE ) of 0.09 on a logarithmic scale , where the minimum value is 6.09 and maximum is 8.647 , meaning that , on average , the model predicts GDP within 1.48 % of its true value . Figure 5 plots predicted values against actual ones . The outlier for which GDP is higher than expected is Brasilia ( the capital of the country ) .
We report the results obtained for models that consider the metric local for local attention and eigenvector central3http://wwwibgegovbr
Figure 5 : The Model1 ’s performance predicting GDP with Adj . R2=0.94 for the set of 45 Brazilian cities .
Model Predictors
1
2
{Attentionim} + P opulationi + Interneti {Attentionim} + Interactionsim + P opulationi + Interneti
Adj.R2 Adj.R2 45
35
0.940
0.93
0.939
0.927
Table 2 : Adj . R2 for different models predicting city i ’s GDP on the two sets of cities . Model1 ’s uses the four attention metrics m , Model2 adds their interaction effects . All models control for the city ’s Internet penetration rates and population . p values are < 0001 ity for brokerage attention as they exhibit higher correlation coefficients ( Section 4 ) . However , we repeated the linear modeling considering the alternative metrics(intra city , betweeness,Pagerank ) and obtained similar performance . 6 . DISCUSSION Theoretical Implications . Our results complement previous studies that correlated economic status with social media data at the level of urban neighborhoods [ 7 , 14 ] . We find consistent results at the level of city too . This is done by considering , for the first time , attention exchanged between cities as a predictor of their economic wealth upon an urban sociological framework . We also show that attention is affected by real world geographic proximity , thus confirming previous studies on the role of physical distance on online interactions [ 18 ] . Additionally , we find that receiving attention from actors residing far , both geographically and in the social graph , positively signals economic well being . This confirms that users are becoming ‘glocalized’ [ 28 ] taking advantage of the Internet to communicate with both local and long range ties . Practical Implications . Our work shows evidence that , with online attention metrics , one is able to effectively and cheaply predict the economic capital of a city ( Adj . R2 = 094 ) To quantify online attention , we define a set of general and easily interpretable metrics : volume of reposts coming from local users , from global users , and from those far away in the social graph . We also observe the brokerage ability of a city in spreading information . These metrics can be computed from aggregated data , made publicly available by social media companies , without the need for researchers of accessing potentially privacy sensitive data . In the spirit of ‘smart cities’ , predictions derived from social media data could help city planners in taking the pulse of the economic prosperity without waiting years for census data to be collected . This holds not only for cities but also for countries : studies of the global interconnectedness are often based on how international corporations are linked [ 23 ] and can now be informed by how countries connect online as well . Limitations . This study has three main limitations that call for further work . The first is demographic bias : users of the platform are usually young people and might represent a more affluent segment of the general population . The second limitation is about language independent features to quantify attention , which were chosen for their generalizability . In the future , one can also analyze the actual content being shared , similar to what [ 15 ] did for London . Third , we have predicted a specific economic indicator . Currently we are expanding this work by predicting migration levels [ 26 ] and social capital for our Brazilian cities . 7 . RELATED WORK Real life processes and social media . Social media data has already been related to real life outcomes . Gruhl et al . [ 9 ] showed that increases in blog mentions of books correspond to spikes in sales . Tweets has been used to predict the Dow Jones Industrial Average [ 3 ] , polls’ results for political opinions [ 13 ] , and election outcomes [ 24 ] . More recently , not only tweets but also email exchanges have been used to track migration flows among developed and developing countries [ 21 ] . Socio economic indicators . Eagle et al . analyzed networks derived from landline phone data and showed a strong relationship between social/geographical diversity in those networks and access to economic opportunities for city neighbourhoods across UK [ 7 ] . More recently , Quercia et al . have shown a correlation between the sentiment expressed in tweets originated by residents of London neighborhoods and the neighbourhoods’ well being [ 14 ] . Our research complements this line of work by proposing a set of metrics that can be applied to data extracted from any data source that reflects social exchanges , including social media data . A key benefit of our approach lies in that it is language independent and it exploits the massive amount of information available on sharing content platforms . 8 . CONCLUSION
Before it can be used effectively , large scale data needs to be processed somehow . In line with the emerging discipline of web/data science , we opted for a methodology that makes use of well established theories in urban sociology to produce actionable data analytics . We have shown how those theories could be put to use to take the pulse of developing urban economies . We have determined which online attention metrics are useful proxy indicators of economic capital . This contribution is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to exploring the uses of large scale data for social good . There is a growing interest in using digital data for development opportunities , since the number of people using social media are growing rapidly in developing countries as well . Local impacts of recent global shocks food , fuel and financial have proven to not be immediately visible and trackable , often unfolding “ beneath the radar of traditional monitoring systems ” [ 25 ] . To tackle that problem , policymakers are looking for new ways of monitoring local impacts , and tracking online attention might well be one such way . 9 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was partially funded by ESPOL and the
Ecuadorian agency SENESCYT . 10 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Asur , B . Huberman , G . Szabo , and C . Wang .
Trends in social media : Persistence and decay . In Proc . of the 5th AAAI ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] D . Bhattacharya and S . Ram . Sharing News Articles
Using 140 Characters : A Diffusion Analysis on Twitter . In Proc . of the IEEE/ACM ASONAM , 2012 .
[ 3 ] J . Bollen , H . Mao , and X . Zeng . Twitter mood predicts the stock market . Journal of Computational Science , 2011 .
[ 4 ] L . Capra and D . Quercia . Middleware for social computing : a roadmap . Journal of Internet Services and Applications , 2012 .
[ 5 ] M . Cha , H . Haddadi , F . Benevenuto , and
K . Gummadi . Measuring user influence in twitter : The million follower fallacy . In Proc . of the 4th AAAI ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 6 ] John Eade . Living the global city : Globalization as local process . Routledge , 2003 .
[ 7 ] N . Eagle , M . Macy , and R . Claxton . Network diversity and economic development . Science , 2010 .
[ 8 ] Edward Glaeser . Triumph of the city : How our greatest invention makes US richer , smarter , greener , healthier and happier . Macmillan , 2011 .
[ 9 ] D . Gruhl , R . Guha , R . Kumar , J . Novak , and
A . Tomkins . The predictive power of online chatter . In Proc . of the eleventh ACM KDD , 2005 .
[ 10 ] J . Henderson , A . Storeygard , and D . Weil . Measuring economic growth from outer space . Technical report , National Bureau of Economic Research , 2009 .
[ 11 ] Charles Landry . The creative city : A toolkit for urban innovators . Earthscan , 2008 .
[ 12 ] N . Naveed , T . Gottron , J . Kunegis , and
A . Che Alhadi . Bad News Travels Fast : A Content based Analysis of Interestingness on Twitter . In Proc . of the 3rd ACM WebSci , 2011 .
[ 13 ] B . O’Connor , R . Balasubramanyan , B . Routledge , and
N . A . Smith . From Tweets to Polls : Linking Text Sentiment to Public Opinion Time Series . In Proc . of the 4th AAAI ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 14 ] D . Quercia , J . Ellis , L . Capra , and J . Crowcroft .
Tracking gross community happiness from tweets . In Proc . of the ACM CSCW , 2012 .
[ 15 ] D . Quercia , D . ´O S´eaghdha , and J Crowcroft . Talk of the City : Our Tweets , Our Community Happiness . In Proc . of 6th AAAI ICWSM , 2012 .
[ 16 ] D . M Romero , W . Galuba , S . Asur , and B . A
Huberman . Influence and passivity in social media . In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases . Springer , 2011 .
[ 17 ] Saskia Sassen . The global city : Introducing a concept .
Brown Journal of World Affairs , 2004 .
[ 18 ] S . Scellato , C . Mascolo , M . Musolesi , and V Latora . Distance matters : geo social metrics for online social networks . In Proc . of the 3rd WOSN , 2010 .
[ 19 ] S . Scellato , A . Noulas , R . Lambiotte , and C . Mascolo . Socio spatial properties of online location based social networks . In Proc . of the 5th AAAI ICWSM , 2011 . [ 20 ] JR . Short , C . Breitbach , S . Buckman , and J . Essex .
From world cities to gateway cities : extending the boundaries of globalization theory . City , 2000 . [ 21 ] B . State , I . Weber , and E . Zagheni . Studying international mobility through IP geolocation . In Proc . of the sixth ACM WSDM , 2013 .
[ 22 ] S . A . Stouffer . Intervening opportunities : a theory relating mobility and distance . American Sociological Review , 1940 .
[ 23 ] P . Taylor , P . Ni , B . Derudder , M . Hoyler , J . Huang ,
F . Lu , K . Pain , et al . Measuring the world city network : New developments and results . GaWC Research Bulletin , 300 , 2009 .
[ 24 ] A . Tumasjan , T Oliver Sprenger , P . Sandner , and I . Welpe . Predicting Elections with Twitter : What 140 Characters Reveal about Political Sentiment . Proc . of the 4th AAAI ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 25 ] UN . Big Data for Development : A Primer . United
Nations , Global Pulse , 2013 .
[ 26 ] C . Vaca Ruiz , D . Quercia , L . M . Aiello , and
P . Fraternali . Tracking Human Migration from Online Attention . In Citizen in Sensor Networks . Springer , 2014 .
[ 27 ] B . Wellman . Little boxes , glocalization , and networked individualism . In Digital cities II : Computational and sociological approaches . Springer , 2002 .
[ 28 ] B . Wellman . The glocal village : Internet and community . Idea&s : The Arts & Science Review , 2004 .
