The 4th Temporal Web Analytics Workshop ( TempWeb’14 )
Marc Spaniol
Max Planck Institut für Informatik
Julien Masanès
Internet Memory Foundation
Saarbrücken
Germany
Paris France mspaniol@mpi infmpgde julien@internetmemory.org
Ricardo Baeza‐Yates
Yahoo Labs Barcelona
Spain rbaeza@acm.org
While the early 90 ’s of the Web have been almost completely lost , national libraries , digital news archives and archiving institutions ( like the Internet Memory Foundation ) have protected Web contents from vanishing . These data are a potential goldmine for temporal and large scale Web analytics at the content level . However , the societal as well as scientific impacts of temporal Web analytics have been not sufficiently studied . As the WWW conference is the premier event series in this domain , we consider TempWeb an ideal venue to exchange knowledge about temporal analytics at Web scale with experts from science and industry . 2 . WORKSHOP TOPIC AND THEMES TempWeb focuses on infrastructures , scalable methods , and innovative software for aggregating , querying , and analyzing heterogeneous data at web scale . Particular emphasis is given to temporal data analysis along the time dimension for web data that has been collected over extended time periods . A major challenge in this regard is the sheer size of the data it exposes and the ability to make sense of it in a useful and meaningful manner for its users . Web scale data analytics therefore needs to develop infrastructures and extended analytical tools to make sense of the mass of information that the historic and current web represents . Topics of TempWeb therefore include , but are not limited to the following : investigating from resulting
ABSTRACT In this paper we give an overview on the 4th Temporal Web Analytics Workshop ( TempWeb ) . The goal of TempWeb is to provide a venue for researchers of all domains ( IE/IR , Web mining , etc . ) where the temporal dimension opens up an entirely new range of challenges and possibilities . The workshop ’s ambition is to help shaping a community of interest on the research challenges and possibilities the introduction of the time dimension in web analysis . Having a dedicated workshop will help , we believe , to take a rich and crossdomain approach to this new research challenge with a strong focus on the temporal dimension . For the fourth time , TempWeb has been organized in conjunction with the International World Wide Web ( WWW ) conference , being held on April 8 , 2014 in Seoul , Korea . Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 : Content Analysis and Indexing General Terms Algorithms , Management , Measurement , Documentation , Experimentation Keywords Temporal Web Analytics , Web Scale Data Analytics , Distributed Data Analytics 1 . INTRODUCTION After three successful editions , the TempWeb workshop ’s specific focus on temporal dimension is getting more and more relevant . Established fields of research ( IE/IR , Web mining , etc . ) are challenged to leverage time signals and expressions to capture dynamics and trends and include contextualized time . The maturity of the Web , the emergence of large scale repositories of web material , makes this very timely and a growing set of research and services are emerging that have this focus in common . Having a dedicated workshop has proven relevant and fruitful to take a rich and cross domain approach to this new research challenge that focus on the temporal dimension .
The focus of TempWeb and the topics addressed are a “ natural ” match with the WWW conference . With digital content born almost two decades ago , the need for a more systematic exploitation of our digital cultural heritage becomes evident .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579047
 Web scale data analytics  Temporal Web analytics  Distributed data analytics  Web dynamics  Data quality metrics  Web spam evolution  Content evolution on the Web      Data aggregation  Web trends    Community detection and evolution
Systematic exploitation of Web archives Large scale data storage Large scale data processing Time aware Web archiving
Topic mining Terminology evolution
863 3 . WORKSHOP STRUCTURE This year , six high quality submissions were finally accepted for oral presentation . Apart from a keynote talk by Masashi Toyoda ( Tokyo University , Japan ) and a panel discussion concluding the workshop , the contributions covered the full spectrum of temporal Web analytics ranging from data provisioning , up to higher level semantics in order to making sense of temporal Web data .
Three contributions addressed aspects related to “ Data Provisioning ” . Jimmy Lin , Milad Gholami and Jinfeng Rao presented an “ Infrastructure for Supporting Exploration and Discovery in Web Archives ” . To this end , they developed a tool called Warcbase , which is an open source platform for managing Web archives built on the distributed datastore HBase . With their system and the underlying data model it becomes possible to store and manage raw content as well as metadata and extracted knowledge . The paper on “ NTCIR Temporalia : A Test Collection for Temporal Information Access Research ” by Hideo Joho , Adam Jatowt and Roi Blanco introduced a novel standardized evaluation benchmark for fostering research in Temporal IR . For that reason , they developed Temporal Information Access ( Temporalia ) , which is a new pilot task run at NTCIR 11 . On the ontological level , Gaël Dias , Mohammed Hasanuzzaman , Stéphane Ferrari and Yann Mathet introduced “ TempoWordNet for Sentence Time Tagging ” . TempoWordNet is an approach towards a temporal ontology , which may contribute to the success of time related applications . The underlying idea is to learn temporal classifiers from a set of time sensitive synsets and then to apply them to the entire WordNet . from Web data sources .
The remaining three papers of the workshop aimed at “ Making Sense of Temporal Web Data ” . Lars Döhling and Ulf Leser introduced a novel approach toward “ Extracting and Aggregating Temporal Events from Text ” . Their paper describes a three step framework , which is able to extract and condense specific facts about events . They evaluated their approach in a comprehensive case study by gathering data on particular earthquakes to help “ Understanding Time through Wikipedia ” , Stewart Whiting and Omar Alonso gave an overview of the past work and characteristics that support Wikipedia for time aware research . In addition , they explained the main content and meta data temporal signals by also briefly discussing the source and nature of each signal . Last but not least , Sushma Bannur and Omar Alonso presented research on “ Analyzing Temporal Characteristics of Check in data ” . To this end , they conducted a large study using check in data from Facebook to analyze different temporal characteristics in four venue categories . Based on their findings they outlined new search scenarios , where the combination of location and temporal aware data might be beneficial .
In order
4 . ORGANIZATION Covering this novel and challenging research area of temporal Web analytics , the workshop organizers teamed up from an archiving institution as well as industrial and academic research . Similarly , the international program committee was composed of well renowned experts in one or more of the topics addressed . The program committee consisted of the following members :
Eytan Adar ( University of Michigan , USA )
  Omar Alonso ( Microsoft Bing , USA )  Ralitsa Angelova ( Google , Switzerland )   Andras A . Benczur ( Hungarian Academy of Science )  Klaus Berberich ( Max Planck Institute for Informatics ,
Srikanta Bedathur ( IIIT Delhi , India )
Germany )
 Roi Blanco ( Yahoo Labs , Spain )   Renata Galante ( Universidade Federal do Rio Grande
Philipp Cimiano ( University of Bielefeld , Germany ) do Sul , Brazil )
Scott Kirkpatrick ( Hebrew University Jerusalem , Israel ) Frank McCown ( Harding University , USA )
 Adam Jatowt ( Kyoto University , Japan )    Michael Nelson ( Old Dominion University , USA )  Kjetil Nørvåg ( Norwegian University of Science and
Technology , Norway )
 Nikos Ntarmos ( University of Patras , Greece )  Philippe Rigaux ( CNAM and Mignify , France )  Thomas Risse ( L3S Research Center , Germany )  Pierre Senellart ( Telecom ParisTech , France )  Masashi Toyoda ( Tokyo University , Japan )   Gerhard Weikum ( Max Planck Institute for Informatics ,
Peter Triantafillou ( University of Glasgow , UK )
Germany )
864
