Semantic Annotation for Dynamic Web Environment
Jeong Hoon Park
Department of Computer Science , KAIST
291 Daehak ro , Yuseong gu
Daejeon , Korea jhpark@islabkaistackr
ABSTRACT The semantic Web is a promising future Web environment . In order to realize the semantic Web , the semantic annotation should be widely available . The studies for generating the semantic annotation do not provide a solution to the ‘document evolution’ requirement which is to maintain the consistency between semantic annotations and Web pages . In this paper , we propose an efficient solution to the requirement , that is to separately generate the longterm annotation and the short term annotation . The experimental results show that our approach outperforms an existing approach which is the most efficient among the automatic approaches based on static Web pages . Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous Keywords Semantic Annotation , Dynamic Web 1 .
INTRODUCTION
As the amount of information in the Web has been increasing continuously , intelligent methods for effectively manipulating the information in the Web are mandatory . The semantic Web is an intelligent Web where data about Web resources is formally represented .
In spite of the advance of the Web , the simple hyper link is still used and Web contents are described in the plain text format . In order to utilize the Web contents in the semantic Web , the semantic annotation is proposed . The semantic annotation is a set of semantic labels assigned to a Web page , which are ontology concepts(classes and instances ) corresponding to the information the Web page presents .
These days , the contents of Web pages are dynamically updated and configured in order to intelligently present the up to date information . Therefore , the ‘document evolution’ requirement introduced in [ 3 ] is one of the most important requirements for the semantic annotation . The requirement is to maintain the consistency between Web pages and semantic annotations . There have been
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577373
Chin Wan Chung
Division of Web Science and Technology & Department of Computer Science , KAIST
291 Daehak ro , Yuseong gu
Daejeon , Korea chungcw@kaist.edu many studies[2 , 1 ] related to the semantic annotation . However , the studies are not focused on the ‘document evolution’ requirement .
In this paper , we propose a solution to the requirement . The solution is separating the semantic annotation into the long term annotation and the short term annotation . The long term annotation is the semantic annotation which is consistent with a Web page for a long time by describing static information of the Web page . The short term annotation is the semantic annotation which is prone to inconsistency by describing the dynamic information of the Web page . Even though some parts of a Web page are dynamically updated , the consistency of the long term annotation is rarely affected by the updates . In contrast , the consistency of the short term annotation is affected by the updates . As a result , the system can focus on updating the short term annotation in order to efficiently maintain the consistency . In order to separately generate the long term annotation and the short term annotation , we use anchor texts and contents of Web pages , respectively . An anchor text is the visible and clickable words in a hyperlink which provides the summary description of the target Web page . The experimental results show that our approach outperforms an existing approach which is the most efficient among the automatic approaches based on static Web pages . 2 . LONG TERM ANNOTATION
In this section , we present a method to generate long term annotations of Web pages . We consider anchor texts as the source of the long term annotation in order to efficiently extract the static information from Web pages . An anchor text for a Web page ud is a set of keywords that are clickable in another Web page and linked to ud . An anchor document of ud is the union of all the anchor texts for ud . Therefore , the goal is generating long term annotations from anchor texts of Web pages . Our method for generating long term annotations consists of 3 steps as follows :
[ Step1:Elimination of Noise Words ] Among the keywords in the anchor text , this step selects only the top m keywords for eliminating noise words . For the top m selection , given a keyword kj in a document ud , we propose the T F IAF measure for scoring each keyword as follows :
T F IAF ( kj ; ud ) = T F ( kj ; ud ) IAF ( kj )
( log ud , and AD is the set of anchor documents for all ud 2 U .
|ATd| , ATd is the set of anchor texts for
|{ADd|kj∈ADd;ADd∈AD}|
|{ai|ai∈ATd;kj∈ai}| where T F ( kj ; ud ) =
, and IAF ( kj ) =
[ Step2:Extracting Candidate Semantic Concepts ] In this step , we extract candidate ontology concepts which are likely to have the semantic relevance with the selected words . For the extraction , we utilize the Jaro W inkler(JW ) edit distance [ 4 ] which gives more weight to the texts sharing the common prefix . Among the semantic concepts and a given selected keyword , we choose the semantic concepts such that , for each concept , the JW edit dis
|AD|
)
353 tance similarity between the name and the given selected keyword is greater than fl . We find that 0.78 is the optimal values for fl by our empirical study . We denote the set of candidate semantic concepts of kt as CAN Dt .
[ Step3:Long term Word Sense Disambiguation(LWSD ) ] In this step , we select the most relevant concept among the candidate semantic concepts for each selected keyword . For given kt in the selected anchor keywords of ud , and a concept ct;p 2 CAN Dt , the relevance between kt and ct;p is computed as
)
(
)
(
W N dc ; Cc t;p
SR
Cc t;p ; ct;p
∑ )
Ld t;p =
( dc2CD(kt ;ud ) dc ; C c t;p where CD(kt ; ud ) is the set of ud ’s anchor texts which contain kt , W N is the value of weighted naive bayesian classifying of dc wrt C c t;p = argci∈SC(ct;p ) max(W N ( dc ; ci) ) , t;p , C c SC(ct;p ) is the semantic context of ct;p which consists of the neighbor concepts of ct;p in the ontology , SR(c1 ; c2 ) is the semantic relevance between c1 and c2 which is computed by SR(cx ; cy ) = len(cx;cp)+len(cy ;cp)+2·len(r;cp ) where r is the root concept , cp is the least common ancestor concept and len is the distance between two input concepts . 3 . SHORT TERM ANNOTATION
2·len(r;cp )
In this section , we present a method for generating short term annotations based on the long term annotations generated in advance . Since the long term annotation of a Web page corresponds to the static information of the Web page , the short term annotation should be semantically related to the long term annotation .
The short term annotation of a Web page ud is based on the texts contained in ud . The method for generating the short term annotation contains the three steps as the method for the long term annotation . Instead of T F IAF , the T F IDF measure is used in Step1 , and the same method based on the JW edit distance is used in Step2 . But the input texts are from the contents of ud . In Step3 , in order to choose top one concept for each selected keyword , we devise a relevance model for scoring the concepts . Given a Web document ud , the ud ’s long term annotation LTud , and a candidate semantic concept ct;p , the relevance model is
∑
CN T ( ci ; LTd ) SR(ci ; ct;p )
AR(ct;p ; LTd ) =
2LTd ci
∑ where CN T ( ci ; LTd ) =
SR(ci ; cj ) jLTdj , 1
. cj∈LTd;cj̸=ci
CN T ( ci ; LTd ) denotes the closeness centrality of ci in LTd . The more central a concept is , the more important the concept is in LTd . 4 . EXPERIMENTS
In order to validate our approach , we implement the semantic annotation system based on our approach and conduct experiments using a real data set(real Web pages , YAGO ontology and DBpedia ) .
In order to use real data in the experiments , we crawl about 1.8 millions of real Web pages in famous sites such as imdb.com , weather.com , twitter.com , and amazoncom The number of link relationships is about 9 millions . The YAGO ontology contains about 2 millions of concepts and about 21 millions of triples . In the Yago ontology , concepts and triples are constructed from Wikipedia and WordNet . We focus on validating the precision and the generation time of our approach . Our approach is compared with [ 1 ] that is based on ‘Part Of Speech’(POS ) and the text similarity between words in Web pages and names of the ontology concepts . [ 1 ] is the most efficient among the automatic semantic annotation systems targeting static Web pages . 4.1 Precision
We compare the precisions of the long term annotation and the short term annotation generated by our approach , and the semantic
( a ) The Precision over Time ( b ) The Generation Time
Figure 1 : The Experimental Results annotation generated by the comparison approach . The precision of a Web page is measured by the ratio of the true positives among the concepts in the semantic annotation of the page .
Fig 1(a ) shows the precisions of our approach and the comparison approach for 20 days . The precisions of our approach are better than those of the comparison approach . The word sense disambiguation of the comparison approach is based on the text matching algorithm , and the comparison approach does not eliminate noise words . These points yield the lower accuracy . In addition , As we can see , the long term annotation is stable for 20 days . This shows that the long term annotation generated by our approach is accurate even though the contents of the Web pages are frequently updated . 4.2 Efficiency
The semantic annotations for a huge amount of Web pages should be updated in order to maintain the consistency . Therefore , the generation time affects the maintenance of the quality of the semantic annotation to be used by various applications .
Fig 1(b ) shows the generation times of our approach and the comparison approach according to the number of Web pages . The average number of annotations for each Web page is about 320 . The generation time of our approach is about 4 times faster than that of the comparison approach . 5 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKS In this paper , we propose a method to separately generate the long term annotation and the short term annotation as the solution to the ‘document evolution’ requirement . The method for generating the semantic annotation consists of 3 steps : elimination of noise words , extraction of candidate ontology concepts , and word sense disambiguation . The experimental results show that our approach outperforms an existing approach .
As a future work , we expect that Step2 can be improved by adapting advanced IR techniques . Step2 affects the efficiency and accuracy of the proposed method since Step2 prunes irrelevant semantic concepts . Acknowledgements . This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea grant funded by the Korean government ( MSIP ) ( No . NRF 2009 0081365 ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Köhler„ Jacob and Philippi„ Stephan and Specht„ Michael and Rüegg„
Alexander . Ontology based text indexing and querying for the semantic web . Knowledge Based System , 19(8):744–754 , December 2006 .
[ 2 ] B . Popov , A . Kiryakov , A . Kirilov , D . Manov , D . Ognyanoff , and M . Goranov . KIM Semantic Annotation Platform . In Proc . of 2nd International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC2003 ) , pages 834–849 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] V . Uren , P . Cimiano , J . Iria , S . Handschuh , M . Vargas Vera , E . Motta , and
F . Ciravegna . Semantic annotation for knowledge management : Requirements and a survey of the state of the art . Web Semantics : Science , Services and Agents on the World Wide Web , 4(1):14–28 , January 2006 .
[ 4 ] W . E . Winkler . The state of record linkage and current research problems . In
Technical report , Statistical Research Division , US Census Bureau , Washington , DC , 1999 .
020406081PrecisionTime(days)Long TermShort TermLong+ShortComparison Approach020040060080010001200100150200250300Execution Time ( sec)Num of Web PagesProposed SystemComparison System354
