Topic Based Place Semantics Discovered from Microblogging Text Messages
Eunyoung Kim Department of
Computer Science ,
KAIST , Daejeon , Korea ey_kim@kaistackr
Hwon Ihm
Division of Web Science and Technology
KAIST , Daejeon , Korea raccoon@kaistackr
Sung Hyon Myaeng Division of Web Science and Technology
KAIST , Daejeon , Korea myaeng@kaistackr
ABSTRACT Location based social network services ( LBSNS ) such as Foursquare are getting the highlight with the extensive spread of GPS enabled mobile devices , and a large body of research has been conducted to devise methods for understanding and clustering places . However , in previous studies , the predefined set of semantic categories of places play a critical role in both discovery and evaluation of the results , despite its limited ability to represent the dynamics of the places . We explore beyond the predefined semantic categories of the places and discover topicbased place semantics through the use of Latent Dirichlet Allocation , by extracting topics from the text which people post on site . We also show the proposed method allows for understanding the temporal dynamics of the place semantics . The finding of this study is intended for , but not limited to , context aware services and place recommendation systems . Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ User/Machine System ] : Human Factors and Human Information I27 [ Natural Language Processing ] : Text Analysis General Terms Human Factors , Experimentation , Languages Keywords Place Semantics , Location Based Social Networks , Latent Dirichlet Allocation , Topic Modeling 1 . INTRODUCTION In the application domains , it has been well known that rather than obtaining only the latitude and the longitude of a user ’s location , it is more useful to employ the concept of place where people actually impart a meaning : social meaning , conventions , cultural understanding about the roles , function and nature [ 1 ] . Owing to the prevalence of location based social network services ( LBSNS ) such as Foursquare and Facebook Places , researchers can now easily access and utilize data generated from such services for many bodies of research . However , only few previous studies use the textual content accompanied by the geospatial data as in Foursquare , for example . Several studies explored how topics were different for geographical locations , in terms of the latitude and the longitude of the places [ 3 , 5 ] , but only presented city level , or even countrylevel analyses , conducted in units much larger than what people generally perceive as places .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482576955 them automatically for salient
In our research , we attempt to elicit place semantics , the conceptualization of a place , derived from the crowd by analyzing the text data gathered from Foursquare . Our main goal is to collect the text messages written from different places in different times , analyze topics , and determine the corresponding place semantics . We believe that the Latent Dirichlet Allocation , a generative probabilistic model for collections of discrete data , is a reasonable choice for modeling such latent variables . To the best of our knowledge , our approach is the first attempt at mining topic based place semantics from the crowd generated text and understanding the temporal dynamics . 2 . DATASET In this work , we use Foursquare check ins and shouts for the places in New York City , collected indirectly through Twitter for eight months between March 19th and November 5th , 2012 , in order to secure a sufficient number of shouts and venues in the dataset while limiting the scope at the same time . We filtered out the tweets consisting only of a text automatically generated by Foursquare . Our final dataset consists of 453,150 check ins containing shouts , and a complete set of attributes for the 72,415 venues that appears in our dataset . 3 . DISCOVERING PLACE SEMANTICS 3.1 Topic Discovery We discover place semantics by analyzing the topicality of the Foursquare shouts . Shouts posted from a venue are aggregated to form a “ mega document ” , which is assumed to contain various descriptions and expressions about the places . That is , we end up building a collection of documents for all the venues in our dataset , which belong to one or more of the nine categories at the top level in Foursqaure . For topical analysis , we applied Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) , one of the most widely used topic modeling method [ 2 ] , to assign each document a probability distribution over the topics identified from the entire collection . Each topic is in turn expressed in terms of a word probability distribution . The topic probability distribution associated with each document the corresponding venue . For LDA , we set the hyper parameters α and β to 0.1 and 0.01 respectively , which are commonly used [ 4 ] , and the number of topics to 50 , which is also common in this type of work . The LDA based analysis re discovered salient topics such as ‘music event’ , ‘leisure time’ , ‘nightlife’ , and ‘drinking beer’ for some venues , which are almost equivalent to the manually labeled categories . On the other hand , it captured hidden semantics . In the case of Pier 59 Studio , for example , the original category is building , but the analysis elicited fashion show , which is reasonable because Pier 59 is in fact a photo studio where fashion show related activities take place . for is considered place semantics
561 4 . UTILIZING PLACE SEMANTICS 4.1 Venue Similarity Since our place semantics are expressed in terms of probability distributions over topics , similarity between two venues can be measured by Jensen Shannon [ 4 ] , most appropriate for computing similarity based on topic distributions . Fig 1 shows an example of similarity calculation results . The more the similar two venues are , the darker the color of the box . In our dataset , John F . Kennedy ( JFK ) airport and LaGuardia ( LGA ) airport have the highest similarity .
( JS ) divergence
Figure 1 . An Example of a Similarity Matrix the pair wise similarity value comparisons
While reveal functionally similar places , topic based place semantics can also reveal hidden semantics that are not obvious in the predefined venue categories . For example , Barclays Center , a multi purpose indoor arena in Brooklyn , is categorized as a basketball stadium in Foursquare . In our result , however , Barclays Center is to Museum of Modern Art and considered most similar Metropolitan Museum of Art . Given that the arena is actually used for concert , conventions , and exhibitions , it suggests that such analysis can capture the semantics not readily available using only the manually assigned categories . 4.2 Temporal Dynamics We also investigated how topic based place semantics changed along the two different time lines : ‘seasons of a year’ and ‘days of a week’ . For the seasonal dimension , we split the entire shouts into three time spans corresponding to ‘spring’ ( March to May ) , ‘summer’ ( June to August ) , and ‘fall’ ( September to November ) . Similarly the shouts were also divided into the ‘weekday’ and ‘weekend’ buckets based on their posting dates . The analysis provided different place topic distributions corresponding to the seasonal change as shown in Fig 2 where xaxis and y axis represent the IDs for the 50 topics and probabilities . For spring , the top ranked topics are ‘workout’ , ‘back’ , ‘gym’ , ‘day’ , and ‘work’ . On the other hand , different top ranked topics emerged for ‘summer’ and ‘fall’ . They are ‘party’ , ‘ show’ , ‘music’ , ‘love’ and ‘time’ for ‘summer’ and ‘brooklyn’ , ‘ run’ , ‘walk’ , ‘ride’ , and ‘bridge’ for fall
Figure 2 . Temporal Dynamics of a Venue
In order to observe the proportion of venues whose topics change over the seasons , we computed JS divergence for all season pairs of each venue . The mean average and the standard deviation are 0.39 and 011 We consider places whose average JS divergence is larger than 0.3 as dynamic . A total of 48 % of the venues are shown to incorporate temporally dynamic topics . 5 . CONCLUSIONS We proposed a method for capturing topic based place semantics from the textual descriptions in the Foursquare check ins . Topicbased place semantics were shown to capture the hidden as well as obvious semantics associated with the venues . As such , it becomes possible to discover semantically or functionally similar venues within and across the categories attached to them . Furthermore , we demonstrated the proposed method makes it possible to recognize the changes in place semantics over time . While this study shows the feasibility of analyzing the textual data in SNS to reveal hidden and temporal semantics associated with venues , it is only the beginning . Our text analyses were quite primitive , just enough to apply a topic modeling method , but we believe more sophisticated methods than just interpreting a set of words can separate activities from objects in the messages more clearly . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was partially supported by Microsoft Research Asia ( MSRA ) ’s University Relation Project and partially supported by Ministry of Culture , Sports and Tourism ( MCST ) and Korea Creative Content Agency ( KOCCA ) in the Culture Technology ( CT ) Research & Development Program 2013 . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Alves , A . , Pereira , F . , Rodrigues , F . , and Oliveirinha , J . 2010 . Place in perspective : extracting online information about points of interest . Ambient Intelligence , 61 72 . [ 2 ] Blei , D . M . , Ng , A . Y . , and Jordan , M . I . 2003 . Latent
Dirichlet Allocation , Journal of Machine Learning Research , v.3 , 993 1022 .
[ 3 ] Hong , L . , Ahmed , A . , Gurumurthy , S . , Smola , A . J . , and
Tsioutsiouliklis , K . 2012 . Discovering geographical topics in the twitter stream . In Proceedings of the 21st international conference on World Wide Web , 769 778 . ACM .
[ 4 ] Kim , D . , and Oh , A . 2011 . Topic chains for understanding a news corpus . Computational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing , 163 176 .
[ 5 ] Wang , C . , Wang , J . , Xie , X . , and Ma , W . Y . 2007 . Mining geographic knowledge using location aware topic model . In Proceedings of the 4th ACM workshop on Geographical information retrieval , 65 70 . ACM
562
