Macro Level Information Transfer across Social Networks
Research School of Computer
Commonwealth Scientific and
Research School of Computer
Minkyoung Kim
Science , The Australian
National University
David Newth
Industrial Research
Organisation
Peter Christen
Science , The Australian
National University
Canberra ACT 0200 , Australia minkyoungkim@anueduau
Canberra ACT 2600 , Australia davidnewth@csiroau
Canberra ACT 0200 , Australia peterchristen@anueduau
ABSTRACT This study proposes a model free approach to infer macrolevel information flow across online social systems in terms of the strength and directionality of influence among systems .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H11 [ Systems and Information Theory ] : Information theory ; H34 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Systems and Software—Information networks ; J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences
Keywords Information transfer ; social media ; news diffusion
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Real diffusion networks are hard to obtain particularly in the case of interconnected heterogeneous social networks [ 4 ] . In this regard , our previous study [ 3 ] modeled macro level diffusion across different populations , without requiring local network structures in detail . The proposed model was based on the assumption of a power law degree distribution which real world networks exhibit in general [ 5 ] , and thus this model still needs to estimate its power law exponent ( α ) . Beyond such an assumption , this study aims to infer cross population diffusion with a model free approach by using information theoretic measures such as transfer entropy . This attempt can provide benefits when studying dynamics of large complex networks since it is independent of any specific assumptions on the interactions between individuals .
We investigate real world news diffusion in social media as a working example of cross population diffusion by using commonly interested topics across different types of social media , such as mainstream news , social networking sites , and blogs . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first attempt to study macro level cross population diffusion in social media using a model free approach .
2 . MACRO LEVEL INFORMATION FLOW Let us consider two discrete time random processes , X and Y . Then , the transfer entropy ( TE ) from the process Y to X is defined as the conditional mutual information [ 7 ] :
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577356
T EY →X = I(Xt+1 ; Yt|Xt )
= p(xt+1 , x(k ) t
, y(l ) t ) log p(xt+1|x(k ) t p(xt+1|x(k ) t
, y(l ) t ) )
,
( 1 ) where xt and yt represent the states of X and Y at time t , respectively , and k and l denote the Markov orders for the previous states of X and Y . Thus , Equation ( 1 ) describes the predictability ( reduction of uncertainty ) of the state xt+1 of the process X , given the k previous states , by introducing the l previous states of the process Y , which provides the strength and directionality of information flow .
Our goal is now to estimate system level information transfer using the transfer entropy . Let a(t ) be the number of new adopters at time t and f ( t ) = a(t)/n be the proportion of new adopters , given the size of a population n . An online social system can be considered as a stochastic process which is a collection of new adoption rates at every time step , and the variation in the new adoption rates of one social system influences those of other social systems . Therefore , we consider the trend ( −1 : decrease , 0 : transition , 1 : increase ) in new adoption rates , f ( t ) , as the discrete states of an online social system , X ,
−1 ,
0 , 1 , xt = if ∆f ( t ) ∈ ( −∞,−τ ] if ∆f ( t ) ∈ ( −τ , τ ) if ∆f ( t ) ∈ [ τ,∞ )
( 2 ) where ∆f ( t ) = f ( t ) − f ( t − 1 ) , and τ is introduced for the discretization of f ( t ) . The value of τ ( =0.006 ) is determined so that the probabilities of three states are equally likely . For the calculation of the transfer entropy , it is necessary to estimate the probability distributions in Equation ( 1 ) , but limited sample size brings about a biased estimation of the entropy . To resolve this issue , we subtract the Panzeri Treves bias [ 6 ] from the estimated entropy with samples as [ 8 ] .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
We investigate real world news diffusion in social media as a working example of cross population diffusion , and we consider social media as stochastic communication channels across online social networks such as mainstream news ( News ) , social networking sites ( SNS ) , and blogs ( Blog ) . We use the Spinn3r dataset from our previous study [ 3 ] , which contains daily cumulative adopters from three different types of online social systems ( News , SNS and Blog ) during a month in early 2011 . Initially , 284 news topics were identified by using the Wikipedia Current Events as a noteworthy
321 Figure 1 : Transfer entropy for different news categories . T Eout/T Ein means outgoing/incoming transfer entropy . The x axis indicates the news index for topics in a corresponding category , which is repeated for each media type ( vertical lines ) . Media types are color coded , and target ( in T Eout ) and source ( in T Ein ) media types are also distinguished by shapes . Note that only significant cases are shown for clarity . news registry [ 4 ] , and we chose 63 topics which have driven the largest diffusion across social media [ 3 ] . The selected topics cover representative categories of conventional news outlets such as politics ( eg , political protests in the Middle East ) , culture ( eg , multiculturalism failure ) , and technology ( eg , iPad2 release ) , and thus we can understand information flow with different context ( see [ 2 , 3 , 4 ] for details ) . News , SNS , and Blog are considered as three discretetime random processes , N , S , and B , respectively . Accordingly , we estimate the transfer entropy of possible combinations , ie , T EN→S , T EN→B , T ES→N , T ES→B , T EB→N , and T EB→S for all 63 news topics . Figure 1 shows the estimated outgoing and incoming transfer entropy for each media type , separated by different categories , from timeseries adopting trends ( xt in Equation ( 2 ) ) of News , SNS , and Blog , when k=l=1 in Equation ( 1 ) . We only considered significant transfer entropy whose value is greater than that of 1,000 shuffled data with 95 % confidence interval . For the culture category , News and Blog have higher outgoing transfer entropy than that of SNS , while the incoming transfer entropy of SNS is generally higher than the others , ie N→S←B . Similarly , regarding the technology topics , we can find the directionality of information flow as N→S←B→N . On the other hand , political topics exhibits balanced interactions between different media types , compared with the other categories . These are consistent with outcomes from our previous study [ 1 , 3 ] .
Meanwhile , in order to examine the effect of the most recent k states of one social system on the future state of another social system , we experimented while varying k(= l ) from 1 to 5 . Figure 2 shows the incoming and outgoing transfer entropy by media types with changing k . In this figure , the y axis represents the number of significant cases whose transfer entropy is greater than that of 1,000 shuffled data . As the figure shows , in general the predictability of diffusion in one social system likely increases as the previous states of the other social system are known as much as possible . However , there are differences between media types . Regarding the outgoing transfer entropy , News and SNS likely influence other social systems for a longer period than Blog
Figure 2 : Transfer entropy for all news topics in our dataset by varying the length of k in Equation ( 1 ) . Top and bottom rows are for outgoing and incoming transfer entropy , respectively . The y axis indicates significant cases whose transfer entropy is greater than that of 1,000 shuffled data . does . In terms of the incoming transfer entropy , Blog tends to be influenced by the longer trends of other social systems than the other media types , which corresponds to the fact that Blog users refer to relatively older documents compared to News and SNS . In particular , when it comes to k = 1 in Figure 2 , the information flow of News is both ways , while that of SNS is incoming , and that of Blog is outgoing .
4 . CONCLUSION
We proposed a way of understanding cross population diffusion phenomena in a more principled way with a modelfree approach using the transfer entropy to estimate the strength and directionality of information flow between online social systems at a macro level . This approach can be further used to give an insight into modeling diffusion across heterogeneous social networks .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling direct and indirect influence across heterogeneous social networks . In ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Social Network Mining and Analysis , Chicago , 2013 . ACM .
[ 2 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling dynamics of diffusion across heterogeneous social networks : News diffusion in social media . Entropy , 15(10):4215–4242 , 2013 .
[ 3 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling dynamics of meta populations with a probabilistic approach . In CIKM , San Francisco , 2013 . ACM . [ 4 ] M . Kim , L . Xie , and P . Christen . Event diffusion patterns in social media . In ICWSM , Dublin , 2012 .
[ 5 ] M . Newman . Networks : an introduction . Oxford
University Press , 2010 .
[ 6 ] S . Panzeri , R . Senatore , M . A . Montemurro , and R . S . Petersen . Correcting for the sampling bias problem in spike train information measures . Journal of Neurophysiology , 98(3):1064–1072 , 2007 .
[ 7 ] T . Schreiber . Measuring information transfer . Physical
Review Letter , 85(2):461–464 , 2000 .
[ 8 ] G . Ver Steeg and A . Galstyan . Information transfer in social media . In WWW , Lyon , 2012 . ACM .
NewsSNSBlog020406TEout : CultureNewsSNSBlog020406TEout : PoliticsNewsSNSBlog020406TEout : Technology TEN→STEN→BTES→NTES→BTEB→NTEB→SNewsSNSBlog020406TEin : CultureNewsSNSBlog020406TEin : PoliticsNewsSNSBlog020406TEin : Technology TES→NTEB→NTEN→STEB→STEN→BTES→B12345050100TEout − NewskFreq12345050100TEout − SNSkFreq12345050100TEout − BlogkFreq12345050100TEin − NewskFreq12345050100TEin − SNSkFreq12345050100TEin − BlogkFreq322
