De anonymizing Social Graphs via Node Similarity
Hao Fu
University of Science and
Technology of China fuch@mailustceducn
Aston Zhang
University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign lzhang74@illinois.edu
Xing Xie
Microsoft Research xingx@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT Recently , a number of anonymization algorithms have been developed to protect the privacy of social graph data . However , in order to satisfy higher level of privacy requirements , it is sometimes impossible to maintain sufficient utility . Is it really easy to de anonymize “ lightly ” anonymized social graphs ? Here “ light ” anonymization algorithms stand for those algorithms that maintain higher data utility . To answer this question , we proposed a de anonymization algorithm based on a node similarity measurement . Using the proposed algorithm , we evaluated the privacy risk of several “ light ” anonymization algorithms on real datasets .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H27 [ Database Management ] : Database Administration—Security , integrity , and protection ; K41 [ Computers and Society ] : Public Policy Issues—Privacy
Keywords De anonymization ; privacy protection ; social network
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In social networking sites , users and their social ties can be described as a social graph . In order to satisfy the need for analysis , operators of social networking services are increasingly sharing information that could potentially breach users’ privacy . An adversary could leverage auxiliary information such as node degrees , neighborhoods of breached nodes , or subgraphs of arbitrary sizes nearby certain nodes , to reveal the identities of nodes in the real world .
To preserve privacy , the data need to be anonymized before publishing . Anonymization is performed by modifying the structure and descriptive information of social graphs . A straightforward approach , namely the na¨ıve anonymization , removes personal identifiable information such as names and leaves the graph structure as it was . Studies have shown the privacy risk of this approach [ 1 , 3 ] , and a number of
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577366 anonymization algorithms were proposed [ 2 , 4 ] . Modifying the graph increases the difficulty of attacks but compromises the utility of data at the same time , rendering the anonymized graphs less useful for analysis . As it is sometimes intractable to collect auxiliary information and social graphs are evolving over time , na¨ıve anonymization or “ light ” anonymization algorithms that only make minor modifications might work much better than expected in practice .
This leads to an interesting question : is it really easy to de anonymize those social graphs ? In this paper , we propose a graph node similarity measurement in consideration with both graph structure and descriptive information , and a deanonymization algorithm based on the measurement . As it is infeasible to define precisely what “ light ” algorithms are due to the different behaviors of the algorithms , we choose several typical anonymization algorithms as their representatives to evaluated with . Our results showed that the proposed algorithm was efficient and effective to de anonymize social graphs without any initial seed mappings [ 5 ] .
2 . DE ANONYMIZING
A simple graph is an undirected graph G = ( V , E ) without any descriptive information . Nodes in V correspond to users , and an edge ( i , j ) ∈ E indicates a social tie between users i and j . A rich graph is the combination of a directed or undirected graph , and two attribute sets X and Y . User i ’s descriptive information ( or node attribute ) is denoted as X(i ) , and the description of a social tie ( i , j ) ( or edge attribute ) is represented as Y ( i , j ) .
We refer to the anonymized and published social graph as the target graph . We assume that an adversary can always collect a subgraph , namely auxiliary graph , nearby nodes of interest . This assumption is practical because online social networking sites are usually partially or fully accessible . Note that this is the only prior knowledge : The adversary does not know the real identity , or seed mapping , of any node in the target graph . The goal of de anonymization is to find identity disclosures in the form of one to one mappings as many and accurate as possible .
Simple graph Suppose we are trying to compare the auxiliary graph G1 = ( V1 , E1 ) and the target graph G2 = ( V2 , E2 ) . For nodes i ∈ V1 and j ∈ V2 , we introduce the node similarity score S(i , j ) as a structural measurement on how similar the two nodes are . The node similarity score is defined recursively . First , the initial values are taken as S ( 0)(i , j ) = 1 . Denoting i ’s neighbor nodes as N1(i ) and j ’s neighbor nodes as N2(j ) , we construct a complete bipartite graph Bi,j = ( N1(i ) , N2(j ) , N1(i)×N2(j ) ) by weighting edge
263 ( i , j ) as S ( k)(i , j ) . We then find the maximum weighted matching θi,j of Bi,j , where node l ∈ N1(i ) is matched to node θi,j(l ) ∈ N2(j ) . Finally , S ( k+1)(i , j ) is assigned as
S ( k+1)(i , j ) =
S ( k)(l , θi,j(l ) )
( 1 ) l∈N1(i )
Here the match θi,j is re calculated in every iteration with the node similarity scores S ( k ) . The calculation is repeated until the normalized scores converge , and the normalization is done by dividing S ( k ) by the maximum S ( k)(i , j ) . We again construct a complete bipartite graph B = ( V1 , V2 , V1 × V2 ) by weighting ( i , j ) as S(i , j ) , and the identity disclosures are found as the maximum weighted match of B . As node pairs with higher similarity scores are more likely to be correct , only the top M ( which is specified by the adversary ) mappings are outputted . Note that methods to produce identity disclosure are not limited to the proposed approach . For example , a ranking of candidates for each node can be produced by sorting the candidates’ similarity scores . The adversary can later check top candidates manually by comparing the profiles with domain knowledge . Rich graph The node attribute similarity SX ( i , j ) represents similarity between node attribute sets X(i ) and X(j ) . Analogously , the edge attribute similarity SY ( i1 , j1 , i2 , j2 ) measures how similar two edge attribute sets Y ( i1 , j1 ) and Y ( i2 , j2 ) are . In directed graphs , there could be two edges of opposite directions between two nodes . The relation similarity SR(i1 , j1 , i2 , j2 ) measures the similarity of node pairs ( i1 , j1 ) and ( i2 , j2 ) in conjunction with edges of both directions . We only assume the measurements range from 0 ( completely different ) to 1 ( possible equivalent ) inclusively . The node similarity defined in Equation ( 1 ) is extended as S ( k)(l , θi,j(l ) ) · SR(i , l , j , θi,j(l ) )
S ( k+1)(i , j ) = α · l∈N1(i ) + SX ( i , j )
( 2 )
The constant factor α trades off the importance of nodeattribute against graph structure and edge attribute . The initial values are taken as S ( 0)(i , j ) = SX ( i , j ) .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
Simple graph We used a co author graph from Microsoft Academic Search that was published in WSDM 2013 Data Challenge for our evaluation . It consists of 8,248 nodes and 18,732 edges without any attribute . Every node corresponds to an author , and two authors are linked by a single edge only if they have collaborated at least one paper .
Rich Graph We extracted a social graph of 2.3 million nodes and 55.4 million directed edges from the Tencent Weibo dataset that was published in KDD Cup 2012 . The node attribute set contains gender , birth year , and the number of user tweets , and the edge attribute describes the following relationship and how many times a user has mentioned , retweeted , or left a comment for another user .
In our experiments , we chose na¨ıve anonymization , kdegree anonymity ( not applicable for rich graphs ) , and randomization to anonymize target graphs . We implemented two algorithms proposed by Liu and Terzi [ 4 ] for k degree anonymity : the one that only adds edges , and the one that adds and deletes edges simultaneously . Three different approaches for randomization were evaluated : sparsification ,
Figure 1 : Accuracy of attacks with different M ( the number of mappings ) on a simple graph ( left , 50 % overlap ) and a rich graph ( right , 5,000 overlap ) perturbation , and switching [ 2 ] . The test data were generated from the original graph by extracting 10 pairs of subgraphs ( the auxiliary graph G1 and the target graph G2 ) randomly with specified overlap ( βV = |V1 ∩ V2|/|V1 ∪ V2| ) . Copies of G2 were anonymized with different algorithms . For the rich graph , G1 is taken as a subgraph of 10,000 nodes from the original graph , and the target graph is induced from a part of the auxiliary graph together with the remaining 2.3 million nodes . We applied our algorithm on the graph pairs and the result is reported as the averages .
The result ( Figure 1 ) showed that the precision and recall of our attacks were reasonably high . The relatively low performance of attacks on rich graphs was unsurprising , since the node overlap of rich graph pairs is only 022 % The result also suggested that the attributes played a more important role in de anonymizing rich graphs , since altering the graph structure did not make much difference . Acknowledgements We would like to gratefully acknowledge the organizers of WSDM 2013 Data Challenge and KDD Cup 2012 , as well as Microsoft Academic Search and Tencent Inc . for providing the datasets .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Backstrom , C . Dwork , and J . Kleinberg . Wherefore art thou r3579x ? : anonymized social networks , hidden patterns , and structural steganography . In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW 2007 ) , pages 181–190 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] F . Bonchi , A . Gionis , and T . Tassa . Identity obfuscation in graphs through the information theoretic lens . In Proceedings of 27th International Conference on Data Engineering ( ICDE 2011 ) , pages 924 –935 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] M . Hay , G . Miklau , D . Jensen , D . Towsley , and P . Weis . Resisting structural re identification in anonymized social networks . Proc . VLDB Endow . , 1(1):102–114 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] K . Liu and E . Terzi . Towards identity anonymization on graphs . In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM International Conference on Management of Data ( SIGMOD 2008 ) , pages 93–106 , New York , NY , USA .
[ 5 ] A . Narayanan and V . Shmatikov . De anonymizing social networks . In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy , pages 173 –187 , May 2009 .
000204060810Recall000204060810Precisionnaivesparsify(p=0:1)perturb(p=0:1)switch(p=0:1)k degree(add , k=10)k degree(add&del , k=10)000204060810Recall000204060810Precision264
