Enhancing Web Activities with Information Visualization
Eduardo Graells Garrido
Supervised by : Ricardo Baeza Yates Co Supervised by : Mounia Lalmas eduardgraells@upfedu
Web Research Group
Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Barcelona , Spain
ABSTRACT Many activities people perform on the Web are biased , including activities like reading news , searching for information and connecting with people . Sometimes these biases are inherent in social behavior ( like homophily ) , and sometimes they are external as they affect the system ( like media bias ) . In this thesis proposal , we describe our approach to use information visualization to enhance Web activities performed by regular people ( ie , non experts ) We understand enhancing as reducing bias effects and generating an engaging response from users . Our methodology is based on case studies . We select a Web activity , identify the biases that affect it , and evaluate how the biases affect a population from online social networks using web mining techniques , and then , we design a visualization following an interactive and playful design approach to diminish the previously identified biases . We propose to evaluate the effect of our visualization designs in user studies by comparing them with state of the art techniques considering a playful experiences framework .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H52 [ User Interfaces ] : Graphical user interfaces ( GUI )
Keywords Information Visualization ; Web Activities ; Web Mining ; Playful Experiences ; Biases .
1 . THE PROBLEM
Today , users are becoming more engaged with social networks on the Web using desktops and mobile devices . However , in terms of the outcome users obtain from them , do current applications and systems actually improve users’ Web activities ? Several Web activities suffer from biases that diminish diversity in information , and these biases are present in the system ( ie , media bias ) and in users’ behavior ( ie , cognitive biases ) . Since these biases are already identified , and sometimes even quantified , in theory it could be possible
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482567958 to diminish their effects . In practice , it has not been easy as several actions to reduce the effects of biases can be counterproductive and , instead of enhancing Web activities , they might actually worsen them . One example of this is the filter bubble [ 28 ] phenomena , where recommendation systems and user tailored information systems only show agreeable information to users . This behavior leads to group polarization and disconnection from people with opposite points of view . Direct approaches to show diverse and non agreeable information have not worked because users do not value diversity [ 24 ] . Hence , it seems that what is displayed in systems and how it is presented is equally important . In previous work , positive effects of using information visualization techniques in these scenarios have been found [ 10 ] , but those effects do not include reducing bias .
In this context , our research question is : How to enhance Web activities using Information Visualization ? We propose to study several activities from a web mining perspective , to find how to introduce data informed improvements and visualization enabled User Interfaces ( UIs ) . These UIs will aim at playful interaction in the context of the Web activity . We seek to generate a positive reaction in users as a way of avoiding the counter productive reaction to potentially challenging information . This positive reaction includes change in behavior in terms of the bias we want to diminish .
The challenge that drives our research is the evaluation of the effect of visualization in a potentially challenging context . A common approach in information visualization is to design for task completion by expert users who have tool experience and understanding of the data . Having a task to perform , a new visualization design can be tested in terms of user performance ( ie , accuracy , task completion time ) . However , in Web activities , there might not be concrete tasks to perform nor expected outcomes , ie , users may just use the Web to have a good time with friends or explore what to do on a Friday night . In general , Web activities do not have an optimal outcome , and different outcomes are not easily comparable , if any kind of measure and comparison is possible .
2 . STATE OF THE ART
Currently , visualization techniques are not aimed only at expert users . Visualization has been used in journalism for decades [ 3 ] , and new ways to exploit visualization in interactive narratives have been studied in narrative visualization [ 31 ] . Some even say the next step in visualization is storytelling [ 18 ] . Although not specific to visualization , Social Data Analysis [ 34 ] refers to the understanding of data by
39 non experts in social settings , and visualization techniques are key for this purpose . In this aspect , Social Data Analysis [ 34 ] and our work are closely related to Casual Information Visualization , defined as “ the use of computer mediated tools to depict personally meaningful information in visual ways that support everyday users in both everyday work and non work situations ” [ 30 ] .
In previous work , algorithms and interfaces have been developed to improve access to diverse and challenging information [ 29 , 24 , 10 ] , potentially changing user behavior [ 23 , 10 ] . These approaches have been mostly direct : users are aware that the information displayed is challenging , yet still they prefer agreeable information . This direct approach has not been effective as users do not seem to value diversity [ 24 ] or do not feel satisfied with it . This behavior is explained by cognitive dissonance [ 11 ] , a state of discomfort that affects people confronted with conflicting ideas , beliefs , values or emotional reactions .
When using interfaces that leverage information visualization , users have not improved their access to information [ 23 ] , but they have improved the way they interact with others [ 10 ] . Our work takes this route following a data informed visualization design process focused on providing positive experiences in biased scenarios .
3 . PROPOSED APPROACH
We define a Web activity as something that might be done regularly on the Web by an individual . We focus on social , informational and leisure activities . We consider biases affecting systems ( ie , media bias ) , and biases affecting users ( ie , homophily and selective exposure ) . We focus on biases that diminish diversity and thus , we want to encourage access to more diverse sources of information .
Data informed , Playful Visualization Design . Having a known Web activity , we identify biases that affect it based on the literature . Then , given a user population from online social networks , we perform data analysis to find how those biases are reflected on the user generated content , system provided content , and user interactions . The understanding of how users perform activities , how they interact with and within the system , and how and which biases impact the activity , allow us to define several problem specific guidelines for our algorithms’ output and visualization design . Our approach is aimed at reducing the effects of the bias , but we are not taking a direct approach as in Casual InfoVis [ 30 ] , where data from the activity would be visualized . Instead , we use the data and its analysis as input to design a visualization that enhances the activity , possibly displaying information from other datasets or related to other activities . We embrace a playful approach by favoring it over rigid analytic visualizations to evoke positive reactions in users by giving impressions of freshness and self organization . This is important as we focus on Web activities affected by ( arguably negative ) biases . To do this , we make use of two particular design approaches : 1 ) Organic Information Design , a process to design visualizations of complex and dynamic information considering traits that relate to organisms like adaptation , responsiveness and movement [ 12 ] ( for example , organic software visualization [ 26] ) ; and 2 ) Designing for Serendipity Through Visualization [ 32 ] , which enumerates guidelines to create playful , interactive visualizations that encourage serendipity and entice curiosity ( for example , in [ 9 ] it is used to explore faceted spaces ) .
4 . METHODOLOGY
Our base paradigms ( organic information design [ 12 ] and designing for serendipity [ 32 ] ) introduce several design principles that are suitable for complex , visually rich and innovative user interfaces . Nevertheless , we strive for a more familiar approach because fully organic designs may seem hard to understand or too complex to be used in the context of web activities by regular people . As in Casual InfoVis [ 30 ] , our designs are aimed at a wide spectrum of users , not only specialized ones nor experts . Instead of creating entirely new visualization designs , we take familiar approaches and augment them with organic features that may provoke emotional and positive responses from users . One example is the visualization in Figure 1 from one of our case studies : we have taken the familiar visualization of word clouds ( which has been on the Web since 1997 [ 33 ] , and it is presumed familiar for regular users ) and have added organic visual elements and playful interactive mechanisms to create a new way to interact with them .
Figure 1 : Data portrait [ 7 ] visualization for our case study : Connecting with Others . The design contains organic features and familiar elements ( word clouds ) . Each word is a characterizing topic for the portrayed user . Each dot represents a tweet linked to one or more topics .
Evaluation . We evaluate the quality and relevance of our algorithms’ output using traditional metrics such as precision and recall [ 2 ] . We also perform user validation through crowd sourcing . We evaluate the effect of our visualization designs in user studies : in comparison to baseline ( mainstream ) visualizations/user interfaces , our designs should be as effective and usable , and more playful and enjoyable . To evaluate playfulness we are considering the PLEX ( PLayful EXperiences ) framework [ 17 , 20 ] , which has not been used in this context before . In addition , by acknowledging that no two persons are equal , the study of individual differences [ 5 ] proves to be helpful , as it allows to understand which personal factors help users to enhance their web activities .
5 . CASE STUDIES AND RESULTS
We started with an exploration of organic design in Linspiration [ 13 ] , where we mixed two known visualizations for time series : area charts and spirals [ 4 ] to create an organic
40 visualization . After this initial exploration , we defined case studies according to our methodology . We present three workin progress case studies related to web activities : connecting with others in social networks , diversity driven display of timelines , and exploratory search using sentiment . 5.1 Connecting with Others
The act of connecting ( or disconnecting ) with others in online social networks is a web activity , as active users of social networks are regularly updating their social graphs . Social research has shown that , because of homophily and selective exposure , users tend to connect with similar and like minded people . As a result , groups of users that share different points of view tend to polarize and disconnect from other groups .
Although previous efforts to use visualization have not reduced selective exposure , they have generated more engagement and users have been more respectful with those having opposite opinions [ 10 ] . An indirect approach to content diversity might give different results in terms of behavior and still provide positive results in terms of user engagement . Our indirect approach is based on recommending people and content about intermediary topics or shared interests between people of opposing views in sensitive issues . Our thinking is that if a connection based on those shared interests is established , it could be possible that the user will receive potentially challenging content in the future . This content could be better tolerated because of the primacy effect in impression formation [ 1 ] , or , as the popular interpretation says : first impressions matter . In this way , we are exploiting homophily to encourage connections with dissimilar people .
Problem Statement . Our research question is : How to encourage connection to dissimilar people in OSNs ? Our approach to answer this is outlined as follows : 1 ) find what intermediary topics are feasible to recommend content and conneting two persons with opposite views on sensitive issues , 2 ) define an algorithm to generate those recommendations , and 3 ) visualize those recommendations in a playful way .
Data Analysis . We performed data analysis on a dataset crawled from Twitter in relation to discussions about abortion in Chile [ 14 ] . Using the vector space model [ 2 ] , we define a methodology to establish an abortion stance for any Twitter account from Chile as a linear combination of two opposite stances : #prochoice and #prolife . Using topic modelling we demonstrated the existence of intermediary topics , ie , those with high diversity of users and high betweenness centrality .
Visualization Design . We visualize user profiles using data portraits [ 7 ] , which are “ abstract representations of users’ interaction history ” [ 35 ] . Our data portrait paradigm is aimed at creating a “ global image ” of a Twitter account , an image that depends on what identity users want to project to others . Existing work on data portraits have focused either on disruptive and artistic designs , or in solely analytic ones . We acknowledge that regular users might exhibit resistance when faced to disruptive changes in the interfaces they are used to . Therefore , as shown in Figure 1 , we propose to add a new stimuli to a familiar element , word clouds [ 33 ] , which changes in a substantial way the interaction with it , while providing a friendly and evocative appearance based on organic patterns . By injecting recommended tweets in the visualization , we nudge users to read content from people who may have opposite views in sensitive issues , while still being relevant according to their preferences .
Pilot Study . We built a prototype content based recommender system that ranks recommendations using a weighted combination of topical relevance and diversity based on opposing views on a concrete sensitive issue . We performed a pilot study were the sensitive issue was abortion and the user population on the social network and participants were from Chile . Participants were divided into three groups . The first one was a baseline , where the data portrait consisted of an interactive word cloud and two standard list of tweets : one from the portrayed users , and other with recommendations considering topical relevance only . In the second group ( treatment I ) the recommendations considered topical relevance and stance differences . In the third group ( treatment II ) the data portrait was based on our design and the recommendations considered topical relevance and stance differences . Our results indicate that user experience with our data portrait design is comparable to a familiar baseline . The injection of content from people with opposite views had a potentially negative effect on the emotional reaction of users when comparing the baseline and the first treatment . However , our portrait design seemed to recover the emotional reaction to its previous levels . We also found hints on how individual differences are related to recommendation attributes : openness is linked to perceived interestingness , and engagement with our design is related to perceived serendipity .
Future Work . Next steps include formalizing our recommender system and perform crowd sourced evaluations of the recommendations . Then , we will create an open system for Chilean users where anyone will be able to join and make use of our visual design , and we will log interactions between users . We will also perform a longitudinal study to measure the effect of our visualization design and to validate the results of our pilot study . 5.2 Diversity driven Display of Timelines
In the Twitter microblogging platform , users follow other accounts that publish micro posts with news , opinions , and general content , among interactions between users . These micro posts or tweets are displayed in reverse chronologically ordered timelines . In countries with severely imbalanced distributions of population , it is likely that most populated places generate more tweets , making tweets from less populated locations to become lost in the timeline , losing the potential content richness derived from geographical diversity . Previous work has tackled the problem of generating diversity driven timelines [ 6 , 25 ] , but the question of how to encourage reading diverse content has not been solved yet .
Problem Statement . Our research question is : How can we use visualization to encourage access to geographically diverse content in user timelines ? Our outline to answer this is as follows : 1 ) define a text classifier that , given a tweet , predicts the location its content is related to , 2 ) define an algorithm to filter a timeline and return a filtered one that maximizes geographical diversity , 3 ) design a visualization to encourage reading of more diverse content in timelines by displaying the filtered timeline .
Data Analysis . To build a geographically diverse timeline we need a way to identify where a tweet comes from and what is the location related to its content ( both are not necessarily the same ) . Although tweets can include geographic infor
41 mation , the portion of tweets with geographic coordinates is very low . In [ 15 ] we studied how tweets are distributed in Chile , and found that only 7 % of tweets generated from Chilean accounts include geographical coordinates . A trivial classifier that associates all tweets to Santiago ( the capital ) already obtains an accuracy of 58 % at city level . We defined a model to normalize social media information according to geography , by using the vector space model with TF IDF weighting [ 2 ] to model locally characteristic content in several locations . Using this model we were able to : 1 ) predict the location related to a tweet with better performance than the non diverse baseline , and 2 ) determine how the physical population imbalance is reflected on the virtual population of Twitter .
Current Status and Future Work . In addition to improving the classifier built in [ 15 ] , we will define an algorithm to generate diverse timelines , maximizing geographical diversity according to Shannon entropy [ 16 ] . Then , we will design a playful visualization to explore content generated on the social network using a geographical facet . Given that the virtual population is imbalanced , the challenge we face is to encourage browsing of information related to less populated locations . This is not an easy task as the core user experience in timeline browsing is focused at recency and not geography . We will address this trade off by providing a playful visualization for faceted exploration that emphasizes content from less populated locations . 5.3 Exploratory Search Using Sentiment
Figure 2 : Search interface from the Exploratory Search using Sentiment case study . We used parallel coordinates to display ambivalence in search results .
Even though search engines have been present for many years on the Web , today most of them still have the initial text based interface , in spite of the emergence of several paradigms in information seeking . One of those paradigms is Exploratory Search [ 21 ] , where a concrete information need is not always present . One way to support exploratory search is by using faceted search interfaces , where information seekers have access to several orthogonal dimensions of the information space even when there is no explicit information need . However , its implementation requires a structure in the underlying data that is not always available . A solution is to extract meta data from the information space to provide the needed structure . We adopt this approach to build a facet for an unstructured information space , by using attributes annotated in text documents calculated through sentiment analysis [ 27 ] .
We consider exploratory search using sentiment analysis in the context of social networks based on user reviews . In these networks , users write reviews and give scores to products , services and places in a city . The quantity of reviews and its scores influence future consumption and check ins by users . In particular , users tend to give more positive reviews and to go to places that already have many positive reviews . This is known as the bandwagon effect [ 19 ] . In this case study , we propose to use visualization of sentiment facets to encourage exploration of places that might be good even with a small number of reviews but are ignored because of the bandwagon effect .
Problem Statement . Our research question is : How to reduce the bandwagon effect by using visualization in a faceted exploratory search context ? We chose sentiment as primary facet because reviews are inherently based on them . However , most sentiment and score depictions focus on simple visualizations and discrete scores from 1 to 5 . Such depictions do not consider the ambivalence present in text , which means that a document may have both positive and negative content at the same time . Considering this scenario , the outline of this case study is as follows : 1 ) we make use of ambivalence to normalize review scores and text into a structured dataset in terms of sentiment , 2 ) we build playful visualization widgets [ 8 ] for a sentiment facet in the context of exploratory search .
Formative Study and Future Work . To start to define an approach to answer our research question we performed a formative user study . In a sentiment based exploratory search context we tested two known visualizations : scatter plots and parallel coordinates against a text based baseline ( see Figure 2 ) . As information space for our pilot study we chose Wikipedia , an open encyclopedia where anyone can contribute and edit articles . Wikipedia is a prominent social media platform , which contains articles with inherent sentimental content [ 22 ] . Our qualitative results show that users are favorable to the proposed visual approaches in comparison to a text based baseline . Our quantitative results show that , when using our system , people who likes to explore lose track of time in a positive sense , whereas people focused on completing the tasks at hand over estimate how much time they will spend on it . Our results suggest that text filters and scatter plots are more suitable for people focused on exploration whereas parallel coordinates are more beneficial to people focused on task completion . Therefore , we will base our ambivalence visualization widgets in scatter plots , with added organic visual features and playful interaction mechanisms . However , before designing the final visualization , we will propose an algorithm to normalize review scores and text from a user generated review dataset .
6 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this thesis proposal we address the problem of enhancing web activities with Information Visualization . The core idea behind our proposal is that playful visualization has the potential to evoke positive reactions in users , increasing engagement in a way that allows us to inject interaction mechanisms that , at first , may seem counter productive , like recommending people with opposite views on sensitive issues . We presented on going results of three case studies , with encouraging preliminary results . Our web mining approach to analyze the user population and its generated content has delivered results that validate the assumptions stated in
42 our motivations ( ie , intermediary topics and virtual population reflecting the imbalance of the physical population ) . However , the main contribution of this thesis proposal is the design approach and its evaluation from a playful experiences framework , which remains to be tested . Although we have embraced disruptive and complex design frameworks , our approach on familiar visualization elements with added organic and playful elements has obtained good results with non experts users , including links between individual differences and perception of how engaging and useful our user interfaces are . The significance of these results will be tested in larger scale user studies to be performed on open systems .
Acknowledgments . This work was partially funded by Grant TIN2009 14560 C03 01 of the Ministry of Science and Innovation of Spain .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Solomon E Asch . Forming impressions of personality . The
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology , 41(3):258 , 1946 .
[ 2 ] R . Baeza Yates and B . Ribeiro Neto . Modern information retrieval : the concepts and technology behind search , 2nd . Edition . Addison Wesley , Pearson , 2011 .
[ 3 ] Alberto Cairo . The Functional Art : An introduction to information graphics and visualization . New Riders , 2012 .
[ 4 ] John V Carlis and Joseph A Konstan . Interactive visualization of serial periodic data . In Proceedings of the 11th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology , pages 29–38 . ACM , 1998 .
[ 5 ] Chaomei Chen , Mary Czerwinski , and Robert Macredie .
Individual differences in virtual environments—introduction and overview . Journal of the American Society for Information Science , 51(6):499–507 , 2000 .
[ 6 ] Munmun De Choudhury , Scott Counts , and Mary
Czerwinski . Identifying relevant social media content : leveraging information diversity and user cognition . In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM conference on Hypertext and hypermedia , pages 161–170 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 7 ] Judith Donath , Alex Dragulescu , Aaron Zinman , Fernanda
Vi´egas , and Rebecca Xiong . Data portraits . In ACM SIGGRAPH 2010 Art Gallery , pages 375–383 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 8 ] M . D¨ork , S . Carpendale , C . Collins , and C . Williamson .
Visgets : Coordinated visualizations for web based information exploration and discovery . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 14(6):1205–1212 , 2008 .
[ 9 ] Marian D¨ork , Nathalie Henry Riche , Gonzalo Ramos , and
Susan Dumais . Pivotpaths : Strolling through faceted information spaces . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 18(12):2709–2718 , 2012 .
[ 10 ] Siamak Faridani , Ephrat Bitton , Kimiko Ryokai , and Ken
Goldberg . Opinion space : a scalable tool for browsing online comments . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 1175–1184 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 11 ] Leon Festinger . A theory of cognitive dissonance , volume 2 .
Stanford university press , 1962 .
[ 12 ] Benjamin Jotham Fry . Organic information design .
Massachusetts Institute of Technology , 2000 .
[ 13 ] Eduardo Graells and Alejandro Jaimes . Lin spiration : using a mixture of spiral and linear visualization layouts to explore time series . In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM international conference on Intelligent User Interfaces , pages 237–240 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 14 ] Eduardo Graells Garrido , Mounia Lalmas , and Daniele Quercia . People with opposing views can share common interests . In Proceedings of the 23rd international conference companion on World Wide Web . ACM , 2014 . To appear .
[ 15 ] Eduardo Graells Garrido and B´arbara Poblete . #santiago is not #chile , or is it ? : a model to normalize social media impact . In Proceedings of the 2013 Chilean Conference on Human Computer Interaction , pages 110–115 . ACM , 2013 .
[ 16 ] Lou Jost . Entropy and diversity . Oikos , 113(2):363–375 ,
2006 .
[ 17 ] Hannu Korhonen , Markus Montola , and Juha Arrasvuori .
Understanding playful user experience through digital games . In International Conference on Designing Pleasurable Products and Interfaces , pages 274–285 , 2009 .
[ 18 ] Robert Kosara and Jock Mackinlay . Storytelling : The next step for visualization . Computer , 46(5):44–50 , 2013 .
[ 19 ] Harvey Leibenstein . Bandwagon , snob , and veblen effects in the theory of consumers’ demand . The Quarterly Journal of Economics , 64(2):183–207 , 1950 .
[ 20 ] Andr´es Lucero , Jussi Holopainen , Elina Ollila , Riku
Suomela , and Evangelos Karapanos . The playful experiences ( plex ) framework as a guide for expert evaluation . In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Designing Pleasurable Products and Interfaces , DPPI ’13 , pages 221–230 , New York , NY , USA , 2013 . ACM .
[ 21 ] G . Marchionini . Exploratory search : from finding to understanding . Communications of the ACM , 49(4):41–46 , 2006 .
[ 22 ] Yelena Mejova , Ilaria Bordino , Mounia Lalmas , and
Aristides Gionis . Searching for interestingness in wikipedia and yahoo! answers . International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW ) , 2013 .
[ 23 ] Sean A Munson , Stephanie Y Lee , and Paul Resnick .
Encouraging reading of diverse political viewpoints with a browser widget . ICWSM , 2013 .
[ 24 ] Sean A Munson and Paul Resnick . Presenting diverse political opinions : how and how much . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing systems , pages 1457–1466 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 25 ] Sean A Munson , Daniel Xiaodan Zhou , and Paul Resnick .
Sidelines : An algorithm for increasing diversity in news and opinion aggregators . In ICWSM , 2009 .
[ 26 ] Michael Ogawa and Kwan Liu Ma . code swarm : A design study in organic software visualization . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 15(6):1097–1104 , 2009 .
[ 27 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis .
Now Pub , 2008 .
[ 28 ] Eli Pariser . The filter bubble : What the Internet is hiding from you . Penguin UK , 2011 .
[ 29 ] Souneil Park , Seungwoo Kang , Sangyoung Chung , and
Junehwa Song . Newscube : delivering multiple aspects of news to mitigate media bias . In Proceedings of the 27th international conference on Human factors in computing systems , pages 443–452 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 30 ] Zachary Pousman , John T Stasko , and Michael Mateas . Casual information visualization : Depictions of data in everyday life . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 13(6):1145–1152 , 2007 .
[ 31 ] Edward Segel and Jeffrey Heer . Narrative visualization :
Telling stories with data . Visualization and Computer Graphics , IEEE Transactions on , 16(6):1139–1148 , 2010 .
[ 32 ] Alice Thudt , Uta Hinrichs , and Sheelagh Carpendale . The bohemian bookshelf : supporting serendipitous book discoveries through information visualization . In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM annual conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 1461–1470 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 33 ] Fernanda B Vi´egas and Martin Wattenberg . Tag clouds and the case for vernacular visualization . interactions , 15(4):49–52 , 2008 .
[ 34 ] Martin Wattenberg and Jesse Kriss . Designing for social data analysis . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 12(4):549–557 , 2006 .
[ 35 ] Rebecca Xiong and Judith Donath . Peoplegarden : creating data portraits for users . In Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology , pages 37–44 . ACM , 1999 .
43
