Cognitive Resources Aware Web Service Selection in
Mobile Computing Environments In Young Ko Science , KAIST
Angel Jimenez Molina Department of Industrial
Department of Computer
Engineering
Universidad de Chile
Republica 701 , Santiago , ajimenez@diiuchilecl
Chile
291 Daehak ro , Yuseonggu , Daejeon , 305 701 , Republic of Korea iko@kaistackr
ABSTRACT The proactive and spontaneous delivery of services for mobile users on the move can lead to the depletion of users' mental resources , affecting the normal processes of their physical activities . This is due to the competition for limited mental resources between the human computer interactions required by services and the users' physical activities . To deal with this problem we propose a service selection method based on two theories from cognitive psychology . This mechanism assesses the degree of demand for mental resources by both the physical activities and the services . Additionally , a service binding and scheduling algorithm ensures less cognitively taxing mobile service compositions . Categories and Subject Descriptors D211 [ Software Engineering ] : Software Architectures – Domain specific architectures Keywords Mobile Web services composition ; cognitive resources ; cognitive engineering ; human factors in service provisioning . 1 . INTRODUCTION Most of the research on mobile service composition has advocated to dynamically select , combine , and reconfigure Web service functionalities across heterogeneous environments , based on context aware semantic spaces and requirements supposed by both mobile user's activities and quality of service ( QoS ) levels , among other features . Clearly , the literature has yet to address the assessment in advance of the cognitive burden – such as interruption irritability or information overload – that the quick rollout of service compositions during runtime in mobile computing environments may pace on users . In order to interact with human computer interaction ( HCI ) services – eg , services needed to visualize maps , listen music or sense vibrations – users need to perform various operations that we call HCI tasks . For instance , the functionality delivered by a
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577370 document editor in a smartphone requires the users to search for options on the screen , push buttons , wait for options to load , read and mentally process information , etc . The intermeshing of a physical activity – such us walking , driving , cycling , etc . – with a set of HCI tasks implies that the user needs to divide her attention and allocate her mental resources – the core assets used by cognition to think , remember , make decisions , etc . [ 3 ] – to each of them , like perception , attention , working memory , long term memory , motor control , etc . Each of these mental resources is available in a limited amount in human beings [ 1 ] . This produces a competition for the same amount of limited mental resources , generating a problem known as cognitive resource depletion in the area of cognitive psychology [ 3 ] , which leads to distractions , increases errors , stress , and frustration , as well as reduces the ability to perform mental planning , problem solving , and decision making . In this paper we present a novel cognitive engineering mechanism to select service functionality that instantiate abstract service compositions during runtime , in accordance with situational demands of mental resources by users' activities and HCI tasks . 2 . BACKGROUND The proposed approach is based on two theories from cognitive psychology : the human processing system theory ( HPS ) of Navon et . al . [ 1 ] , and the multiple resource theory ( MRT ) of Wickens [ 3 ] . The former rests on the idea of a limited amount of underlying resources in the human processing system available at any moment . These mental resources are demanded in different degrees by time sharing activities of a situation . On the other hand , the MRT highlights the competition and interferences among mental resources allocated in different physical/cognitive dimensions – perceptual , cognitive or central processing , and responsive structures . It is based on a practical description of the different mental resources required by activities . According to this model , the performance of time shared activities is sensible to their join difficulty and overlapping of common mental resources . 3 . DYNAMIC BINDING AND SCHEDULING We assume that service compositions are represented in BPEL ( Business Process Execution Language ) , and consist of sequential and parallel constructs of abstract services coordinated by controlflow patterns ( AND Split/Join , XOR Split/Join , OR Split/Join ,
307 Use
Research following data : ( 1 ) a set of different HCI abstract service types and their probability density functions generated from the Intel Computer ( http://www2berkeleyintelresearchnet/~tlratten/public_usage~tlratten/public_usage_data/pu d.html ) report ; ( 2 ) a set of randomly generated abstract service composites ; ( 3 ) a set of 100 HCI service instances and their respective cognitive attributes ; ( 4 ) a set of real user's activities and their cognitive attributes extracted from [ 2 ] . We define 200 test cases as the combination of two levels of our approach as follows : ( 1 ) level one : minimization of the cognitive demand , constrained on the maximum cognitive demand ; ( 2 ) level two : inclusion of level one , constrained on the cognitive interferences . The success ratio is about the percentage of concurrency bindings that do not exceed the maximum human cognitive capacity ( see Figure 1 ) , as defined in [ 3 ] . Level one is able to find around 85 % of optimal solutions for any number of candidates . However , this is at the cost of facing cognitive interferences . The 100 % success ratio of the second best , relaxed solutions provided by the BILP problem when the maximum human cognitive capacity is relaxed , means that always there exists a solution to the BILP problem at this level . The level two behaves with a bigger risk of not finding any feasible solution , with a success ratio between 75 % and slightly superior to 80 % . On the other hand , the optimality of the relaxed service concurrency bindings decreases at level two , while for the level one it is steady at the value of 40 % . The optimality for level two approach barely reaches 30 % . Therefore , at this level the mechanism is not appropriate to provide acceptable service concurrency bindings , since many second best solutions are extremely cognitively taxing to the user . However , this drawbacks are offset by the total elimination of cognitive interferences . 5 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK A mechanism to dynamically bind and schedule service instances with abstract mobile service compositions considering mental resources has been introduced . We are currently assessing cognitive demands of HCI tasks and activities by collecting data from bio sensors like electrocardiograms and pupil dilation , and integrating our mechanism to a context manager to automatically trigger the optimization . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported by the KCC ( Korea Communications Commission ) , Korea , under the R&D program supervised by the KCA ( Korea Communications Agency ) ( KCA 2013 1191305005 ) , and by CONICYT , FONDECYT INICIACI ON 11130252 . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Navon and D . Gopher . On the economy of the human processing system . Psychological review , 86(3):214 255 , 1979 .
[ 2 ] A . Oulasvirta et al . Interaction in 4 second bursts : the fragmented nature of attentional resources in mobile HCI . In Proceedings of Human Factors in Computing Systems , pages 919 928 . ACM , 2005 .
[ 3 ] C . Wickens . Multiple resources and performance prediction . Theoretical issues in ergonomics science , 3(2):159 177 , 2002 .
Figure 1 : Metrics for Concurrency Bindings . etc ) . We also assume that each service instance belongs to a list of functionally equivalent services representing a specific abstract service type . Each HCI task is associated with a profile of the cognitive dimensions of services ( CoS ) , which provides a description of its cognitive attributes . We define a service concurrency as a collection of time shared abstract services in a parallel construct . The mechanism stochastically estimates the most probable time window of concurrent execution for these abstract services , based on the probability density functions of the users' interaction time with specific concurrent HCI services while engaged on a specific physical activity . These interacting times are stored as historical experience , which can be mined to obtain the functions . 3.1 Service Composition Analysis In the first phase , the BPEL file with the service composition is translated into a directed acyclic graph ( DAG ) representation . This DAG is used to extract executable paths , in accordance with the control flow patterns that express the abstract service coordination . Executable paths represent all possible alternatives of the composition execution . Thus , sequential and/or parallel constructs are extracted from each executable path , which are used to bind service instances to its abstract services . 3.2 Cognitive Demand and Interference Assessment Having a parallel construct , service concurrencies are computed based on the probability functions . This is used as an input for a binary linear programming problem ( BILP ) to select an optimal set of HCI services such that : ( 1 ) the total demand on mental resources by the HCI services and the user's activity is minimized , and ( 2 ) there not exist interferences among the demanded mental resources . This is done by extracting the cognitive dimension values from the CoS profile . By solving the BILP problem our service selection mechanism identifies the set of background and HCI services that generate feasible , relaxed , or non feasible solutions based on the availability of service instances in the search space . These service instances , their starting time evaluated in base of their temporal latencies , and the probability density functions , define the scheduled execution plan to be orchestrated . 4 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We have conducted a simulation to apply the mechanism to a set of various abstract service composites by considering the their estimated durations derived from
308
