Characterizing High impact Features for Content Retention in Social Web Applications
Kaweh Djafari Naini , Ricardo Kawase , Nattiya Kanhabua and Claudia Niederée
L3S Research Center / Leibniz Universität Hannover , Germany
{naini , kawase , kanhabua , niederee}@L3S.de
ABSTRACT One of the core challenges of automatically creating Social Web summaries is to decide which posts to remember , ie , to consider for summary inclusion and which to forget . Keeping everything would overwhelm the user and would also neglect the often intentionally ephemeral nature of Social Web posts . In this paper , we analyze high impact features that characterize memorable posts as a first step for this selection process . Our work is based on a user evaluation for discovering human expectations towards content retention . Categories and Subject Descriptors H5m [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Classification , Experimentation , Aggregation Keywords Social Web Application , Managed Forgetting , Content Retention , Feature Analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Social web applications , eg , Facebook and Twitter clearly have a focus on the current situation and interactions as well as on what is coming up . Over time , there is , however , a lot of information created by individual users and some of the popular Social Web applications are now already existing for many years . This raises the issue of what to do with the accumulating information and what can be gained from it beyond enabling more effective advertisement .
By documenting personal life [ 2 ] this information clearly constitutes an asset . For example , the large volumes of digital photo and videography created and shared by individuals today are considered a valuable part of personal remembrance [ 4 , 5 ] . However , an ever growing information space tends to clutter . Recent work [ 2 , 6 ] has shown the interest of users in also using social media content for reminiscence and self reflection and the potentials of social media content for this task . In [ 6 ] for example a study with Facebook users
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2744 2/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482576954 has discovered a considerable interest in managing a personal region for personal reminiscence and reflection about oneself . Automatically identifying real world , public events in social media for browsing and search has been studied in previous work [ 1 ] . However , there is little work on identifying personal events , or autobiographical events ( a subjective sense of times , places , associated emotions , and other contextual knowledge ) in social media , which is considered a first step towards long term summarization .
Therefore , we think of added value for the user and his/her social network by capturing personal history , harvesting the daily activities in an intelligent way and condensing them into different types of life summaries . Such summaries are not only useful for personal remembering . They also can provide an important source for catching up with what happened in the lives of not so close friends ( eg , former class mates ) , whose activities we do not have the time or interest to follow on a day to day basis .
Creating Social Web summaries , which are compact and meet human expectations on what to remember ( and what to forget ) is , however , a challenging task [ 3 , 6 ] . In this light , this work provides important contributions towards a model for content retention preferences in social media and social networks . In more detail : ( i ) We design a user study , which enables insights into retention preferences , while respecting users privacy ; and ( ii ) We present an analysis that provides us with evidences of the most remarkable features .
2 . EVALUATION
Methodology . The goal of this evaluation was to collect participants’ opinions regarding the retention preferences for their own Facebook posts , shares and updates . In our user study , each participant had to judge their own posts on a 5 point Likert scale answering the following question : How relevant is your post for future reference ? . We asked participants to judge at least 100 of their posts . Participants were recruited through research communities on Facebook where we posted the link to the evaluation and kindly asked for their contribution . Extra care was taken to respect user ’s privacy and to comply with Facebook ’s Platform Policies1 . First of all , the collected data will of course not be disclosed to third parties . Furthermore , the actual content of the posts ( text or photos ) is not analysed in our experiments . In general , the data cached represent the minimal amount of information needed in order to perform the experiments .
Results and Data Analysis . In total , we had 20 participants , 15 males and 5 females ranging from age 25 to 37 .
1https://developersfacebookcom/policy/
Figure 1 : On the left , the overall distribution of ratings ( average 1.81 , standard deviation 1.21 , variance 147 ) On the right , the distribution of ratings by content types .
Figure 2 : Average numbers of likes and comments by ratings ( scores from 1 to 5 ) .
Together they evaluated 3,330 posts . Additionally , once the user provided us authorization to access their data , we were able to collect general numbers that help us to study the general use of Facebook Social network .
Figure 1 ( left ) depicts the distribution of the ratings . We clearly identify the dominance ( 60 % ) of irrelevant posts ( 1 star ) . Further , Facebook defines seven types of posts , namely : link , checkin , offer , photo , question , swf and video . These basically describe the type of content that is attached to a post . Figure 1 ( right ) shows the distribution of posts among these categories . 49 % of the evaluated posts consist of status updates , followed by shared links ( 28% ) , photos ( 17 % ) and videos(4% ) .
Disregarding swf and offer types ( which do not have sufficient occurrences to be significant ) , we found out that links and status updates have the highest irrelevance rates with 69 % and 67 % 1 star votes . In contrast , photo updates seems to be the most memorable type . Only 30 % of photos were rated as irrelevant , moreover , this type of posts leads the 5 starts votes with 18 % .
On Facebook , users are able to comment or to like a particular post . In the most common case ( default setup ) , a user ’s post is visible for his network of friends , and those are the ones that are able to comment and to like . A first analysis of the results suggests that the average number of comments and average number of likes for the evaluated posts has a considerable impact on the rating of the post ( Figure 2 ) : the higher the number of likes/comments , the higher the rating . Additionally , as depicted in Figure 3 , we see the average ratings over time ( January 2009 November 2013 ) . The image shows a clear trend where participants in the evaluation assigned higher ratings to more recent posts . This is in line with the idea of a decay function underlying the content retention model . From this statistics , one can deduce first ideas
Figure 3 : Average ratings over time . for the features that have a higher impact in the detection of memorable posts . In summary , the type of the post and its number of likes and comments have a high impact , while the age of the post should be considered as well .
We have observed that other types of features based on the metadata of each post ( eg privacy , appType , hasLink ) , as well as network measures , ( eg clustercoefficient , connectedcomponents , density ) , computed on likes and comments network of the post , have a considerably lower impact on the memorability of a post .
3 . CONCLUSION
In this work , we have roughly identified features for classifying memorable posts . The data analysis presented in this paper is just a first step for the envisioned life summaries . As future work , we plan to increase the reach and the participation in our evaluation to collect a data set that can better represents the average social network users . Based on this , we plan to empirically identify the most important features that characterize memorable posts . In addition , we are planning research work for gaining a deeper understanding of personal retention preferences , since not all users use a social web application in the same way . Acknowledgments This work was partially funded by the European Commission Seventh Framework Program under grant agreement No.600826 for the ForgetIT project .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . Becker , M . Naaman , and L . Gravano . Learning similarity metrics for event identification in social media . In Proceedings of WSDM ’2010 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] S . Greengard . Digitally possessed . Commun . ACM ,
55(5):14–16 , May 2012 .
[ 3 ] N . Kanhabua , C . Nieder´ee , and W . Siberski . Towards concise preservation by managed forgetting : Research issues and case study . In Proceedings of iPres ’2013 , 2013 .
[ 4 ] D . S . Kirk and A . Sellen . On human remains : Values and practice in the home archiving of cherished objects . ACM Trans . Comput Hum Interact . , 17(3):10:1–10:43 , July 2010 .
[ 5 ] S . E . Lindley , C . C . Marshall , R . Banks , A . Sellen , and T . Regan . Rethinking the web as a personal archive . In Proceedings of WWW ’2013 , 2013 .
[ 6 ] X . Zhao , N . Salehi , S . Naranjit , S . Alwaalan , S . Voida , and D . Cosley . The many faces of facebook : Experiencing social media as performance , exhibition , and personal archive . In Proceedings of CHI ’2013 , 2013 .
