Can Web Presence Predict Academic Performance ? – The
Case of Eötvös University
László Gulyás
Loránd Eötvös University and
Petabyte Research Ltd . Székesfehérvár , Hungary gulya@hpseltehu
Zsolt Jurányi
Loránd Eötvös University Székesfehérvár , Hungary zsoltjuranyi@gmailcom
George Kampis
Loránd Eötvös University and
Petabyte Research Ltd . Székesfehérvár , Hungary kampisgeorge@gmailcom
Sándor Soós
Department of Scientometrics and Science Policy
Library of Hungariand Academy of Sciences Budapest , Hungary soossand@gmail.com
ABSTRACT This paper reports the preliminary results of a project that aims at incorporating the analysis of the web presence ( content ) of research institutions into the scientometric analysis of these research institutions . The problem is to understand and predict the dynamics of academic activity and resource allocation using web presence . The present paper approaches this problem in two parts . First we develop a crawler and an archive of the web contents obtained from academic institutions , and present an early analysis of the records . Second , we use ( currently off line records to analyze the dynamics of resource allocation . Combination of the two parts is an ambition of ongoing work .
The motivation in this study is twofold . First , we strongly believe that independent archiving , indexing and searching of ( past ) web content is an important task , even with regards to academic web presence . We are particularly interested in studying the dynamics of the ” online scientific discourse ” , based on the assumption that the changing traces of web presence is an important factor that documents the intensity of activity . Second , we maintain that the trend analysis of scientific activity represents a hitherto unused potential . We illustrate this by a pilot where , using ’offline’ longitudinal datasets , we study whether past ( ie cumulative ) success can predict current ( and future ) activity in academia . Or , in short : do institutions invest and publish in areas where they have been successful ? Answer to this question is , we believe , important to understanding and predicting research policies and their changes .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579037
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ World Wide Web ] : Web mining ; H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Digital libraries and archives
General Terms Scientometrics
Keywords Scientometrics , Web Content Archiving , Prediction of Performance
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Scientific research is an inherently social process . As such , in modern days , it is more and more exercised and carried out at the scenes of modern social life . That is , scientific activities are increasingly embedded in virtual arenas : Facebook , Twitter , LinkedIn or in novel initiatives trying to create social media dedicated to research and science . Several such initiatives exists , such as Mendeley or Vivo , but perhaps the one with the largest current momentum is ResearchGate . [ 6 ] Our belief is that potentially the best way to channel such efforts would be to implement something like the Innovation Accelerator concept put forward in [ 4 , 5 , 1 ] . In short of that , however , we turn our scientific interest to using existing tools and analysing data currently available . Research already had its online presence even before the advent of new social media . Academic institutions and researchers were among the firsts to create and maintain their own web pages and to regularly publish novel content there . However , classic scientometrics largely omitted the analysis of such activities , focusing on more structured datasets , like journal databases or other bibliometric data .
Recently , we have embarked on a project that aims at incorporating the analysis of the web presence ( and content ) of research institutions into the scientometric analysis of these research institutions . Our motivation is twofold . First , we strongly believe that independent archiving is important , even with regards to academic web presence . This
1183 may serve several important purposes , including the indexing and searching of ( past ) web content . ( Eg , public scientific statements by researchers and/or academic institutions . )
Online media venues change rapidly . New content and topics emerge and disappear as the joint interest of the community producing and consuming them changes . Archiving online content is generally not solved , so the dynamics of such public discourses is rarely studied .
This forms these basis our second motivation : we maintain that the trend analysis of scientific activity represents a hitherto unused potential . We are interested in studying the dynamics of the ” online scientific discourse ” . While archiving Internet content is a vast challenge , even for a limited domain like academia , the continuous extraction of topic categories and the archival of them could result in a useful trace of the public discourse and its dynamics over a given period of time .
Besides these primary goals , the project will enable the trend analysis of scientific activity from a novel perspective and possibly even the prediction of scientific trends . This may have an enormous potential . As an illustration , we present an analysis , using only ’classic’ longitudinal datasets of publications and citations .
The usual question , ” can investment predict ( or imply ) success ? ” , may also be reversed . The customary hypothesis answers this original question to the affirmative : more investment is generally believed to yield more success . Using longitudinal datasets of scientific publications and citations , we can ask the reverse question as well . In particular , our current question is this : Does past ( ie cumulative ) success predict current ( and future ) investment ? In other words , is success a good predictor for subsequent resource allocation ? Put still differently , do institutions invest and publish in areas where they are successful ? Assuming that resource allocation is rational ( ie that it is worth investing in areas that have proved to bring returns ) , our question translates as this : do institutions know ( or care about ) their own research strengths ( [2 ] and [ 3] ) ?
This paper reports the preliminary results of an ongoing work . The next section describes the material and methods . This is followed by initial results : from basic statistics to some revealing correlations . A discussion of the current status of the project follows , including areas of future works .
2 . MATERIALS AND METHODS
Our current ambition is to archive and to mine web content ( and presence ) of Hungarian academia . This means 500 NIIF institutions ( NIIF = National Information Infrastructure Department ) , 42 research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences , and 47 higher education entities ( universities and polytechnics ) .
We use modified harvesting techniques originally tested and tried by several earlier national archives , including the internet archiving project of the British Library . We use the Heritrix crawler modified and specially configured for our purposes . We did not consult existing archives but used the modified crawler to download and archive original content . Our hardware configuration was a Dell T710 server ( 2x4 core Xeon E5520 , 48GB RAM , 2TB HDD ) . In the current study we concentrated on web data we obtained for 48 academic ( that is , higher education and Hungarian Academy of Science , HAS ) institutions . The lists of these are :
Figure 1 : The Hungarian backbone connecting cities of primary academic importance . ffl http://mta.hu/mta kutatointezetei ffl http://huwikipediaorg/wiki/Magyarorsz´agi egyetemek list´aja , and ffl http://huwikipediaorg/wiki/Magyarorsz´agi f˝oiskol´ak list´aja , respectively .
The list of all these academic institutions is convenienlty summarized at http://wwwhungarianscienceorg .
Files downloaded are mainly text files and videos stored at the above sites ; in particular all files with the extensions exe , gz , iso , jar , mp3 , ogg , ppt , rar , wav , xls , xlsx , and zip are excluded ( as a response to the existence of many shared disk images and other large files of dubious origin that are often unrelated to the ” official ” activity of the downloaded sites ) .
An overview picture of the Hungarian internet backbone serving the sampled institutions is shown on Fig 1 .
In the second part of our analysis , due to the limited time span of our longitudinal data collected from the web at the time of writing , we will deal with off line recorded data containing metadata of scientific publications contained in the WoS ISI archives . We queried these archives for all Hungarian institutions and obtained a raw dataset containing bibliometric ( ie publication and citation ) data for all publications with at least one Hungarian research address . We used parts of this dataset for the study presented here .
We use these data to analyze the predictability of scientific investments from past success . In this context , success will be measured as citation efficiency , and investment in terms of publication numbers . This can be assumed to be just natural , as publications and the research activities behind them typically tend to imply costs , and the typical return is peer recognition expressed , among other things , in the measurable form of citations by other publications . In short , we deal with ( publication , citation ) pairs .
Expenditures clearly vary from discipline to discipline and subject to subject . Yet in the same field or subfield the costs can be assumed proportional to the number of publications produced . Hence , normalising publication numbers to their field average , and comparing the results to similarly normalised field specific citations , we can hope to obtain a clear picture on how the different institutions have allocated their resources at a given time , and how this has led to their success of failure in these fields . We compare numbers about the
1184 past to those of the current investments ( the proxy for which is the number of publications ) using the same fields . For this study , field are identified by the ISI subject categories ( SCs ) , currently 244 in number in the Reuters Thomson Web of Science ( WoS ISI ) database , which is the information source of the current study .
We consider the Hungarian dataset ( filtered for institutions as listed in http://wwwhungarianscienceorg/ ) in the interval 2003 2012 .
3 . RESULTS
3.1 Hungarian Academic Web Sites
Regarding our efforts to archive the web presence and content of Hungarian academic institutions , our first observation is that the Internet based ” big data ” is unexpectedly small for Hungary . The average size of a snapshot of the downloaded sites is 974 MB per site , where the median is 137 MB [ ! ] . ( Outliers exists , due to catalogs present in Chemistry sites and astronomy datasets . ) The average size of actual text on these sites is 474 MB per site , where the median is 47 MB [ ! ] .
By comparison , the text size of the personal page of one of the authors alone is 180MB . When contemplating these figures , then , an inevitable conclusion would be that ” big data ” is , for the Hungarian academic institutions currently , rather small . This further indicates a lack of tools , competence , interest or available content ( or a combination of these ) for a more massive web presence of these institutions . ( Comparison for institutions from other countries is under way . )
It is well known that averages of skewed distributions should be treated with special caution . Therefore , it is prudent to look at the distributions of downloaded snapshot sizes . The rank distribution of the data sizes of a snapshot of online content for the academic institutions follows a ” power law like ” distribution , as can be expected ( Fig 2 ) . A similar picture is obtained if only text files are considered ( Fig 3 ) .
A quick analysis of the most frequent topics on academic sites in Hungary between April 15 , 2013 and October 15 , 2013 shows that the focus is on events ( rendezveny ) , calls ( felhvas ) and grants ( palyazat , as presented on Fig 4 . Clearly , the bulk of academic web sites is not about the results produced . ( A more in depth analysis of our accumulating data is underway , including spike analysis , as well as combining the online trends with bibliometric datasets . )
3.2 Prediction from Longitudinal Datasets
In this first report of our analysis , we discuss our next findings on one strongly motivational example , Lor´and E¨otv¨os University ( ELTE ) , which is the nation ’s prime science university . Here we are making use of the off line bibliometric datasets discussed earlier . Cutting ahead of the detailed analysis , the raw data for 2002 and 2012 can be seen in Fig 5 . This figure — albeit available just for ” eyeballing ” — already indicates the main finding , namely that there is no obvious relation between past success and later investment as understood here . Notice on the figure that virtually no change is detectable , that is , the successful , highly cited and obscure , not cited fields behave similarly in this longitudinal
Figure 2 : The rank size distribution of the data sizes of the academic institutions follows a long tailed distribution . Top panel : Institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences . Bottom panel : Hungarian Universities . In both panels , the horizontal axis lists the institutions from left to right in decreasing rank order . The vertical axis shows the size of the snapshot for the particular institution .
Figure 3 : The rank size distribution of the data sizes of the academic institutions ( text files only ) also follows a long tailed distribution . Top panel : Institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences . Bottom panel : Hungarian Universities . In both panels , the horizontal axis lists the institutions from left to right in decreasing rank order . The vertical axis shows the size of the snapshot for the particular institution .
1185 Figure 4 : The most frequent topics on Hungarian academic web sites between April 15 , 2013 and October 15 , 2013 . Time is shown on the vertical axis . The horizontal axis show the cumulative number of hits . Different colors denote the different keywords .
Figure 5 : Raw data comparison for E¨otv¨os University , 2002 and 2012 series on the top and bottom panel , respectively . In both panels , the vertical axis lists the ISI subject categories , while the vertical axis depicts the number of occurrences . comparison ( a slightly imperfect SC alignment is due to the small increase of the set of SCs over time ) .
3.3 Raw investment vs normalized citations
All following figures refer to the same institution , ELTE . The first analysis ( Fig 6 ) shows raw investment ( in 2012 ) against nationally normalized citations ( for papers published in 2002 ) . More precisely , dots represent SCs , the horizontal axis SC specific relative citations on a national scale , applied to publications in 2002 , and the vertical axis shows raw publication numbers in 2012 . It is seen that a relation , if exists , is highly unspecific .
Relative citations and nationally normalized citations are obtained as follows ( all calculations for a given SC ; hence SCs are treated independently ) . A relative citation number is simply the number of citations divided over by the number
Figure 6 : Raw production in 2012 for E¨otv¨os University ( verticla axis ) versus nationally normalized relative citations ( horizontal axis ) in 2002 . of publications — for example , if , in 2002 , 27 papers have been published by ELTE in Agriculture , and together they received 54 citations , then the relative number of citations is 2 . ( Note that citations are always cumulative , and so is the ISI database itself — in a current dataset only the total number of citations arrived for the 2002 papers up until 2012 are available . Hence it cannot be known how successful a 2002 paper — or SC — ” initially ” was . This is not a problem as we are considering a longer interval where initial effects get smoothed out . )
Nationally normalized citations are obtained by first calculating relative citations for the national production ( eg 207 citations for 73 papers in Agriculture yields 2.84 ) , and then dividing the institution specific relative citations by the national figure . In our fictitious example , we get 2=2:84 = 0:7 .
What we see in Fig 6 ( if anything ) , it is that in impact there is a strong grouping around the value of 1 ( which cannot be surprising as 1 is , by construction , the average of nationally normalized productivity ) , and at this value there is a broadest spectrum on investment ” responses ” on the vertical axis . This indicates that average ( ie mediocre ) success decouples form later investments in the same topics ( but see ” large fields ” later ) . Even more surprising is that very successful fields ( with x values 4 or 6 ) are not the ones highly published later .
3.4 Nationally normalized production versus normalized citations
On Fig 7 we present a similar picture , with the difference that instead of the raw publication numbers , a relative measure showing nationally normalized publications in 2012 are shown on the vertical axis . The finding is similar — that there is no recognizable pattern of relation . Success ( or the lack of it ) in 2002 and production ( or the lack of it ) in 2012 are unrelated — a somewhat counterintuitive result .
1186 Figure 7 : Normalized production in 2012 ( vertical axis ) versus nationally normalized citations in 2003 ( horizontal axis ) .
3.5 Growth in given fields versus normalized citations
As a sanity check for the ELTE material , we present an analysis figure using a different indicator , the amount of growth in the different fields as dependent variable . Growth of an SC is understood here as the ratio of productivity , the ratio between the numbers of papers produced in 2012 and back in 2002 . It is well seen on Fig 8 , however , that ten years growth in a given field is highly unrelated to the success of the same field ten years earlier . 3.6 Raw citations and later investments : field size effect
Finally let us present an obvious picture of analysis — it is obvious in a double sense . First , it should be clear form the preliminary presentation of Fig 5 that ” not much has changed ” in the studied years — our analysis will now express this in more accessible terms . Second , in bibliometrics there is a well documented ” field size effect ” : that large fields remain large , and small fields remain small ( so changes , if any , do not cross orders of magnitude , for example ) . Note that this is conditioning , at the same time , the number of available citations in the given fields : as a general rule , large fields have more citations and small fields have fewer citations . On Fig 9 below , we see this field effect in the case of raw citations versus later investments .
4 . DISCUSSION AND FUTURE WORK
We have reported on an ongoing effort with multiple aims . We are in the process of longitudinally indexing the public web content of Hungarian academic institutions . Our goal is to combine scientometric analysis with trends extracted from online academic presence . These efforts are at an early stage , therefore our current report in this domain was limited to the basic statistics of our downloading and indexing activities , with some illustration of the topic analysis made possible by the former . Nonetheless , important conclusions can be drawn from these basic statistics as well . In partic
Figure 8 : Growth in a decade ( 2002 2012 , vertical axis ) versus nationally normalized citations in 2002 ( horizontal axis ) .
Figure 9 : Raw citations ( for publications in 2002 , horizontal ) and later investments ( publications in 2012 , vertical ) .
1187 ular , we found that ” big data ” can be surprisingly small in case of countries similar to Hungary .
In addition , we studied the question of whether scientific success predicts the future ( academic ) activity of research institutions . This study , performed using ’offline’ longitudinal data sets , and considered as a pilot for the combined system ( under development ) based on web crawling , was intended as an illustration of the potential of trend analysis to predict scientific trends ( or the lack of them ) . We have presented various analyses of one particular example , E¨otv¨os University , in the interval 2003 2012 . We found that there is no clearly detectable relation indicating the effect of past success ( measured in the number of field normalized citations ) on future investment ( measured in the number of new publications in a field ) ten years later . ( An earlier version of this study was presented in [ 2 ] and [ 3] ) .
Our result indicates that ( despite common intuition ) the academic institutions — or at least some of them , as revealed in our study — in fact do not know or care about their strength and weaknesses when deciding about future resource allocation in given fields . A very similar result can be obtained if not only E¨otv¨os but also other Hungarian higher education and research institutions are examined . Further discussion of the findings ( eg whether the unveiled cognitive information strategy represents a strength or a weakness in given cases ) is left to subsequent papers . One particular goal we have is to extend this line of research to perform the same set of analyses on data from internationally leading academic institutions ( eg , Harvard University ) , to see if the results generalize .
For policy and research , these preliminary findings convey a negative message . If institutions allocate their resources ( as reflected in the number of papers produced by them ) without consideration of the past success of the respective fields , then success does not lead to increased innovation , and may not even be worth wanting , after all . To corroborate these conclusions , and to see whether such a radical conclusion is indeed supported in general is to be found in subsequent works .
Our ultimate goal will be to combine the two sides of the efforts presented in this paper , and to be able to perform scientometric ( trend ) analysis on combined datasets : ie , data from web crawling and bibliometric repositories combined .
Our belief is that this is within reach and may pave the way for further combined analyses , eg , ones that overlay funding information ( ie , grants awarded ) and publication and impact data , resulting in an approximation of ROI of research investments . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work was partially supported by the European Union and the European Social Fund through project FuturICT.hu ( grant no . : TAMOP 422C 11/1/KONV 2012 0013 ) .
6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] G . Kampis , 2013 : Innovation Acceleration by Public
Data Analysis , presentation at the FuturICT.hu ” Networking Conference ” , Budapest , 14th June 2013 .
[ 2 ] G . Kampis , L . Guly´as and S . So´os 2012 :
Megj´osolhat´o e a r´aford´ıt´as a sikerb˝ol ? , El˝oad´as az V . Emergencia Workshopon , Budapest , 2012 december 7 . [ 3 ] G . Kampis 2013 : Approaches to activity mapping and performace evaluation in scientific production , talk given at the University of Duisburg , Aug 8 . , 2013 .
[ 4 ] Helbing , D . , Balietti , S . ( 2011 ) . How to create an innovation accelerator . The European Physical Journal Special Topics , 195(1 ) , 101 136 .
[ 5 ] van Harmelen , F . , Kampis , G . , B˝orner , K . , van den
Besselaar , P . , Schultes , E . , Goble , C . , and Helbing , D . ( 2012 ) . Theoretical and technological building blocks for an innovation accelerator . The European Physical Journal Special Topics , 214(1 ) , 183 214 .
[ 6 ] Leydesdorff , L . , Rotolo , D . , and De Nooy , W . ( 2012 ) .
Innovation as a Nonlinear Process , the Scientometric Perspective , and the Specification of an Innovation Opportunities Explorer . Technology Analysis & Strategic Management ( Forthcoming ) .
1188
