Data Imputation Using a Trust Network for
Recommendation
Won Seok Hwang , Shaoyu Li ,
Sang Wook Kim∗
Dept . of Electronics and Computer Engineering
Hanyang University , Korea hws23 , chris , wook@hanyangackr
ABSTRACT Recommendation methods suffer from the data sparsity and cold start user problems , often resulting in low accuracy . To address these problems , we propose a novel imputation method , which effectively densifies a rating matrix by filling unevaluated ratings with probable values . In our method , we use a trust network to estimate the unevaluated ratings accurately . We conduct experiments on the Epinions dataset and demonstrate that our method helps provide better recommendation accuracy than previous methods , especially for cold start users . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28d [ Information Technology and Systems ] : Database ApplicationsData Mining Keywords Recommendation System , Trust Network , Data Imputation , Matrix Factorization 1 .
INTRODUCTION
A number of recommendation methods have been proposed for predicting ratings of items to which a target user has not evaluated yet [ 1 ] . Among them , the probabilistic matrix factorization ( PMF ) model is known to be quite effective [ 6][3 ] . However , these methods suffer from low accuracy when most of users rated only a few items , ie , the rating matrix is very sparse , called the data sparsity problem [ 1 ] . In particular , it has been an important issue to accurately predict the ratings for cold start users who rated only a small number of items [ 1 ] .
In order to address the data sparsity and cold start user problems , existing imputation methods [ 4 ] replace unevaluated ratings ( missing values ) with probable values . However , most of those methods overlook additional information such as a social network . Also , they cannot be applied to the PMF models [ 6 ] because they are designed only for their specific methods .
In this paper , we propose a novel imputation method that ( 1 ) exploits a trust network as an additional information and ( 2 ) can be applied to most of existing recommendation methods including the PMF models . Our method estimates the unevaluated rating of an item for a user by aggregating ∗
Corresponding author
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577363
Kichun Lee
Dept . of Industrial Engineering
Hanyang University , Korea skylee@hanyangackr the corresponding ratings given by his/her reliable neighbors . In order to find the reliable neighbors , the method refers to a trust network , a kind of a social network , representing trust relationships among people , because users who are connected in the trust network tend to have similar preferences [ 2][5 ] . In addition , the proposed method fills with the probable values only for the items evaluated by a sufficient number of reliable neighbors . Owing to the proposed method , we can get the desified rating matrix , thereby achieving higher accuracy by applying most of recommendation methods including the PMF models .
2 . PROPOSED METHOD
This paper addresses data imputation for recommendation , which densifies a rating matrix whose element indicates a rating of an item given by a user . The proposed method fills the unevaluated rating of an item for a user with the most probable value estimated by aggregating the ratings given by reliable neighbors who have similar tastes to him/her .
We find the reliable neighbors of each user by examining the trust network . In a trust network , a trust relationship represents a user ( trustor ) trusts another user ( trustee ) . In our method , the reliable neighbors of a user represent his/her trustees and trustors in the trust network . The rationale behind considering the trustees is based on the assumption that a trustor would be interested in those items which his/her trustees are interested in , in short , that a trustor and trustee would have similar interests [ 2][5 ] . If this assumption holds , the reasoning in the reverse direction is also possible . That is , a trustee would have interests in those items which his/her trustors are interested in . This is the reason why we consider the trustors as well as the trustees as reliable neighbors .
In our method , the accuracy of the estimation is dependent on the number of reliable neighbors who provide their ratings . Therefore , the estimation of probable values by only a few neighbors could be imprecise . In order to solve this problem , we skip estimating those unevaluated ratings for the items which are rated by an insufficient number of reliable neighbors for user u during the imputation process , and fill with probable values only for the rest of items , called the candidate item set of user u , C(u ) . To build C(u ) , we sort the items for u based on the number of his/her neighbors who evaluated each item in descending order , and then , select only the top percent of items .
The proposed imputation method estimates the unevalu
′ u;i of item i for user u as follows : ated rating r
299 ′ u;i∈{i|i∈C ( u)} = u + r
1 k v∈{v|rv;i̸=null;v∈N ( u)}(rv;i , v ) ( 1 ) where rv;i denotes the rating of user v on item i , and ¯u ( ¯v ) represents the average rating of user u ( v ) . N ( u ) denotes a set of reliable neighbors of user u . Also , rv;i ̸= null means user v evaluated item i . As we can see in Equation 1 , the proposed method considers not all of the users in N ( u ) but only those users who rated item i in N ( u ) . The denominator k indicates the number of users v in the set {v | rv;i ̸= null ; v ∈ N ( u)} .
With the proposed imputation method , we can get the ′ densified rating matrix R = ( ru;i)M×N + ( r u;i)M×N , where M and N denote the numbers of users and items , respec′ tively , and ru;i and r u;i indicate the original and estimated ratings of user u on item i , respectively . This densified matrix has exactly the same form as the original rating matrix , so any recommendation methods including the PMF models [ 6 ] can use the densified matrix for improving their accuracy . 3 . EVALUATION
We used a real world dataset , Epinions [ 5 ] for our experiments . The dataset contains 49,289 users , 139,738 items , 664,824 ratings on the items , and 487,002 trust statements . Also , there are 16,910 cold start users , who gave ratings on less than 5 items .
In the experiments , we used root mean square error ( RMSE ) as an evaluation metric . We performed 5 fold cross validation . In each fold , we used 80 % of rating data as a training set and the remaining 20 % as a test set .
We first examined how the prediction accuracy changes with different . Figure 1 shows the result obtained with PMF as a recommendation method . We observe that RMSE is significantly reduced with data imputation and is the lowest when is 30 % .
Figure 1 : Accuracy with different .
Next , we compared the accuracy of the PMF model equipped with our imputation method with those of existing recommendation methods . In this experiment , we chose three existing recommendation methods : the user based recommendation method [ 1 ] , original PMF model [ 6 ] , and SocialMF [ 2 ] . We set the parameter T as 0.5 for SocialMF , which determines the influence of the social network in rating prediction . We performed 5 dimensional matrix factorization in the original PMF model , SocialMF , and our proposed method , and we set the parameters U and V as 0.01 for those methods . Besides performing experiments on all users , we also performed the same experiments for only the coldstart users .
Table 1 shows the results . We observe that the PMF model equipped with the proposed method is more accurate than others . Also , we see that the PMF model equipped with the proposed method and SocialMF outperform the original PMF model , which indicates that the use of a trust network is effective for improving recommendation accuracy . Besides , the proposed method is more accurate than SocialMF because it exploits trustors as well as trustees . For cold start users , all the methods show accuracy worse than that for all users because the cold start users provide less information . In summary , the proposed method provide higher accuracy than other recommendation methods . In addition , the differences between the proposed method and existing methods in terms of RMSE are bigger for the coldstart users compared with those for all users .
Table 1 : Accuracy comparison
4 . CONCLUSIONS
We proposed a novel imputation method that is useful for most of recommendation methods . In order to estimate the unevaluated ratings accurately , the proposed method uses the trust network and fills only a part of unevaluated ratings . We performed experiments by using a real world dataset and show that the PMF model equipped with our imputation method outperforms existing methods in recommendation for cold start users as well as all users . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported by the ITRC ( Information Technology Research Center ) support program ( NIPA 2013H0301 13 4009 ) and IT/SW Creative research program ( NIPA2013 H0503 13 1029 ) . Also , it was supported by the Ministry of Culture , Sports , and Tourism ( MCST ) of Korea under Korea Copyright Commission in 2013 . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G . Adomavicius and A . Tuzhilin . Toward the next generation of recommender systems : a survey of the state of the art and possible extensions . IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 17(6):734–749 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] M . Jamali and M . Ester . A matrix factorization technique with trust propagation for recommendation in social networks . In Proc . of the 4th ACM Conf . on Recommender Systems , Recsys , pages 135–142 , 2010 .
[ 3 ] Y . Koren , R . Bell , and C . Volinsky . Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems . Computer , 42(8):30–37 , 2009 .
[ 4 ] H . Ma , I . King , and M . R . Lyu . Effective missing data prediction for collaborative filtering . In Proc . of the 30th Annual Int’l ACM SIGIR Conf . on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR , pages 39–46 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] P . Massa and P . Avesani . Trust aware recommender systems . In Proc . of the 2007 ACM Conf . on Recommender Systems , RecSys , pages 17–24 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] R . Salakhutdinov and A . Mnih . Probabilistic matrix factorization . Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , NIPS , 20:1257–1264 , 2008 .
11110211041106110811111121114111611181120%10%20%30%40%50%RMSECandidate Threshold θMethod RMSE All Users Cold Start Users User based 1.185 1.350 PMF 1.118 1.210 SocialMF 1.115 1.209 Ours 1.107 1.199 300
