SepaRating : An Approach to Reputation Computation
Based on Rating Separation in e Marketplace
Hyun Kyo Oh , Yoohan Noh , Sang Wook Kimfi
Department of Electronics and Computer
Engineering , Hanyang University , Seoul , Korea rapkyo , iamny , wook@agapehanyangackr
Sunju Park
School of Business , Yonsei University , Seoul ,
Korea boxenju@yonseiackr
ABSTRACT This paper proposes SepaRating , a novel mechanism that separates a buyer ’s rating on a transaction into two kinds of scores : seller ’s score and item ’s score . SepaRating provides the reputation of sellers correctly based on the seller ’s score by repetitive separations , which helps potential buyers to find more reliable sellers . We verify the effectiveness of SepaRating via a series of experiments . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ DATABASE MANAGEMENT ] : Database applications|Data mining Keywords Trust , Rating Separation , Reputation System , e Marketplace 1 .
INTRODUCTION
The e marketplace , such as eBay.com , enables a large number of buyers and sellers to trade goods and services on the Internet . For buyers to find more reliable sellers , most emarketplaces offer a reputation system that provides potential buyers with reputation scores of sellers . Reputation scores of sellers are computed based on the collection of buyers’ ratings .
The rating , the buyer ’s evaluation of a transaction , is based on two criteria . One criterion is based on the capability of the seller , such as the promptness of the answers to customer questions and the safe & fast delivery . The other is based on the quality of an item .
When using ratings to compute reputation scores , however , the existing reputation systems [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] do not distinguish these two evaluation criteria . We claim that the reputation system needs to separate two criteria |whether the rating is about the capability of the seller or about the quality of the item| to provide more precise information about the seller . For example , it is possible that despite of late delivery , the transaction receives a high rating because fi
Corresponding author
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2744 2/14/04 http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577375 the item is of an excellent quality . On the other hand , it is possible that the transaction receives a high rating because of the seller ’s detailed answer and fast delivery , even though the item ’s quality does not meet the buyer ’s expectation . In both cases , using existing reputation systems , it is impossible to distinguish the cause of the high rating .
In this paper , we propose SepaRating , a mechanism that iteratively computes the sellers’ reputation by separating the rating into seller ’s score and item ’s score . SepaRating computes the reputation of the seller ’s capability using the seller ’s score and helps potential buyers in their search for more reliable sellers . 2 . THE PROPOSED MECHANISM
To separate the buyer ’s rating into seller ’s score and item ’s score , we have made an assumption that buyers’ evaluation tends to be similar on the quality of the same item . If two buyers have bought the same item from two different sellers and have given different ratings to their transactions , t’his implies that two sellers have different capabilities . We compute the relative score among sellers who sell the same item and designate it as the seller ’s score .
In order to isolate the seller ’s score from the buyer ’s rating , we cluster sellers based on the item . The sellers who sell the same item belong to the same cluster . Figure 1 shows an example of seller clustering .
Figure 1 : An example of seller clustering based on the item .
Let S denote the set of sellers and Cs the set of seller clusters based on the item . Let eik denote the initial reputation of the i th seller si in the k th cluster cs k . In the beginning , the initial reputation is the average of buyers’ ratings on the seller . Let Ek denote all the initial reputations in cs k . The ′ relative score ( seller ’s score ) for si in cs ik ) is computed k ( e as follows : ik = Avg(Ek n eik ) , eik
′ ik is defined as the average of the initial reputations of e the sellers in the k th cluster except si minus the initial reputation of si ( eik ) . Each seller is assigned with the relative
( 1 )
′ e selleritem351 score within the cluster he belongs to . ( Note that a seller may have multiple relative scores . ) The i th seller ’s reputation , e
′ i , is computed as follows :
∑
2Cs cs k
′ i = e
1jCsj
′ ik e
( 2 )
We call the computation process above as seller rating separation ( SS ) . If the sellers are clustered based on their reputations , the item ’s score can be computed following the process similar to SS . We call the computation process to extract an item ’s score as item rating separation ( IS ) .
For IS , we cluster items based on the sellers’ reputations computed by SS . The items with similar1 sellers’ reputations are clustered together . Figure 2 shows an example of item clustering . In Figure 2 , we set ϵ as 0.05 such that all items sold by S1 or S2 belong to the same cluster .
Figure 2 : An example of item clustering based on the sellers’ reputations .
After performing IS , we proceed with another SS , where the seller clustering is based on item scores similar within ϵ . Because IS changes item scores , and the changed item scores change sellers’ scores , and so on , we apply IS and SS successively . The IS and SS processes continues until the sellers’ reputations converge . 3 . EXPERIMENTS
In existing studies [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] , they generated e marketplace simulation data by considering the simple behavioral patterns between sellers and buyers . In our experiments , we generated more sophisticated simulation data by carefully considering real world relationships among sellers , buyers , and items . The simulation is divided into days . During a day , each buyer is restricted to trade at most once . The numbers of sellers , buyers , and items can be controlled by parameters.2
We generated two sets of e marketplace data with two different parameter settings . The first one consists of 1,000 items , 500 sellers , 5,000 buyers , and 300 days of a whole transaction period ; the second one consists of 2,000 items , 1,000 sellers , 10,000 buyers , and 300 days of a whole transaction period .
As a measure for evaluating the effectiveness of SepaRating ( SR ) , we use the Spearman ’s rank correlation coefficient , which assesses how closely two sets of rankings agree with each other . As ground truth , we regard the sellers’ rankings according to their selling capabilities that are determined in our simulation data.3 In the experiments , we investigate 1The term similar means the difference between two sellers’ reputations is less than ϵ . 2Simulation program and simulation data are available at http://goo.gl/zDs1lN 3The seller ’s capability is set according to the normal distribution with an expected value of = 0:5 and standard deviation = 0:25 . how much a set of the ground truth rankings and another set of the rankings obtained by the SR agree with each other .
We compare our result with that obtained by a baseline approach ( BL ) , which simply computes a seller ’s reputation by averaging buyers’ ratings on all the transactions in the seller . Figure 3 shows the results . The SR is shown to be more accurate than BL in both data sets . The results indicate that our approach to rating separation is effective in finding true reputation of sellers .
Figure 3 : Accuracy with the BL and the SR .
Figure 4 shows the accuracy changes according to the number of iterations in rating separation . We observe the followings : the accuracy of the SR is improved with more iterations ; in particular , it is significantly improved at the second iteration ; the degree of improvement decreases with further iterations ; after the fifth iteration , the accuracy converges to 98 percent and remains stable . The size of clusters tends to increase with a more number of iterations , which leads to higher accuracy .
Figure 4 : Accuracy changes with the number of iterations . 4 . CONCLUSIONS
We have proposed SepaRating for computing the seller ’s reputation accurately . The main idea is on the separation of a buyer ’s rating on a transaction into two pieces : seller ’s score and item ’s score . Our experimental evaluation shows that the proposed separation idea is fairly effective , thereby helping provide true reputation of sellers to potential buyers . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This research was supported by ( 1 ) the National Research Foundation of Korea ( NRF ) ( No . 2012R1A1A2007817 and NRF 2011 330
B00076 ) , ( 2 ) the National IT Industry Promotion Agency ( NIPA ) ( NIPA 2013 H0301 13 4009 ) , and ( 3 ) the Ministry of Culture , Sports and Tourism ( MCST ) and Korea Copyright Commission in 2013 .
6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] A . Whitby , A . Jϕsang and J . Indulska . Filtering Out Unfair
Ratings in Bayesian Reputation Systems . The Icfain Journal of Management Research , Vol . 4 , No . 2 , pp . 48 64 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] J . Zhang and R . Cohen . Evaluating the Trustworthiness of
Advice about Seller Agents in E marketplaces : A Personalized Approach . Electronic Commerce Research and Applications , Vol . 7 , No . 3 , pp . 330 340 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] S . Liu et al . iCLUB : an Integrated Clustering based Approach to Improve the Robustness of Reputation Systems . In Proc . of the 10th Int’l Joint Conf . on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems , pp . 1151 1152 , 2011 . selleritem0020406081seller reputation0808208408608809092BLSRSpearman's coefficient0808208408608809092BLSRSpearman's coefficient(a ) Data set 1(b ) Data set 2(a ) Data set 1(b ) Data set 208809092094096098112345678910Spearman's coefficientIteraƟonSR08809092094096098112345678910Spearman's coefficientIteraƟon352
