Recommendation for Advertising Messages on Mobile Devices
Chih Chun Chan
Yu Chieh Lin
Dept . of Electrical Engineering
National Taiwan University
Research Ctr . for Information
Technology Innovation
Ming Syan Chen
Research Ctr . for Information
Technology Innovation
Academia Sinica Taipei , Taiwan
Taipei , Taiwan ccchan@arboreentuedutw
Academia Sinica Taipei , Taiwan yuccalin@arboreentuedutw mschen@citisinicaedutw
ABSTRACT Mobile devices , especially smart phones , have been popular in recent years . With users spending much time on mobile devices , service providers deliver advertising messages to mobile device users and look forward to increasing their revenue . However , delivery of proper advertising messages is challenging since strategies of advertising in TV , SMS , or website may not be applied to the banner based advertising on mobile devices . In this work , we study how to properly recommend advertising messages for mobile device users . We propose a novel approach which simultaneously considers several important factors : user profile , apps used , and clicking history . We apply experiments on real world mobile log data , and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications— Data Mining
Keywords clustering ; mobile advertising ; recommendation systems
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The rapid emergence of mobile devices and corresponding applications brings great impact into our daily lives . Advertising via mobile devices becomes an important approach of promotion . Other than the SMS ( Short Message Service ) advertising or the web embedded advertising , we focus on the banner based advertising , where an advertising message is displayed on the screen as a banner along with some app ( Mobile Application ) .
The banner based mobile advertising mechanism is as follows . Promoters generate the advertising messages . A mobile advertising corporation is paid by promoters to help them deliver the advertising messages to mobile device users .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577343
When an app is run on a mobile device , some advertising message is popped out as a banner . If the user is interested in the advertising message , the user might click on the banner to see further information .
To decide which advertising message should be delivered to the user , a naive approach is to deliver advertising message randomly . However , the advertising corporation would like to recommend the advertising messages that the user is most likely to click on . For recommendation systems available , content based approaches are not applicable since the advertising corporation are not able to look into the content of users’ behavior on mobile devices . Collaborative filtering approaches are not applicable either . Briefly , neighborhoodbased collaborative filtering techniques [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] recommend items to a user based on other users sharing similar records with the target user . However , it is observed that the total of advertising messages is quite large , while most users have clicked on only few ( or even none of ) advertising messages . Thus , the collaborative filtering techniques may not perform well for recommending advertising messages due to the sparsity of the clicked advertisement records .
In this work , we propose to recommend advertising messages by simultaneously considering three factors : user profile , apps used , and clicking history .
2 . METHODOLOGY
We propose the RAM ( Recommendation for Advertising Messages ) approach , including the training phase and the recommendation phase . In the training phase , the history mobile log data is used . We define a similarity metric based on the user profile , apps used , and clicking history . We partition the users into different groups based on the defined similarity metric , and we assign corresponding advertising messages to each group . In the recommendation phase , for each user running an app , we decide which group the user is most likely to belong to , and then we deliver the advertising messages corresponding to that group to the user . Details of the RAM approach are introduced as follows .
Based on the history mobile log data , for each user who has clicked any advertising message , we extract the information about the user as three vectors : P F , AP , and CH . The vectors represent the status of user profile , apps used , and clicking history ( ie , the advertising messages that are clicked by the user).1 Then we define the similarity between
1Due to space constraint , the vectors are not described in detail in this paper .
235 ∑
∑ ∑
∑ users u and v as
Sim(u ; v ) =P F . CosP F ( u ; v ) + AP . CosAP ( u ; v )
+ CH . CosCH ( u ; v ) ;
( 1 ) where Cos( ) represents the cosine similarity , represents the weight , and P F + AP + CH = 1:0 .
With the user similarity Sim(u ; v ) defined , users with high similarities are partitioned into a group . We apply the DBSCAN algorithm [ 1 ] to partition users into groups . The density based clustering algorithm results in several groups , without requiring a pre defined number of groups .
To assign the corresponding advertising messages to each group , we propose NCP ( Normalized Clicking Proportion ) to describe the relationship between a user group Gi and an advertising message ADj . We define
N CP ( Gi ; ADj ) =
C(Gi ; ADj)= 8x C(Gx ; ADj)=
8y C(Gi ; ADy ) 8x
8y C(Gx ; ADy ) where C(Gi ; ADj ) represents the sum of the count that each user in group Gi has clicked on advertising message ADj . If the N CP ( Gi ; ADj ) value is larger than one , users in group Gi is more interested in advertising message ADj than all groups’ average . This implies that advertising message ADj could be a good choice for users in group Gi .
After the training phase is performed , we learn several groups of users and the corresponding advertising messages assigned to each group . In the recommendation phase , when a user runs an app , we deliver the proper advertising message by applying the following process . We first decide which group the user is most likely to belong to by extracting information as vectors and calculating the similarity as Eq 1 between the user and each group . Then we choose one of the corresponding advertising messages assigned to that group and deliver it to the user . It is worthy noting that for a user without any clicked advertisement record , the weight CH in Eq 1 is distributed to P F and AP to solve the cold start problem .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
The experimental dataset is provided by WAYSTORM , a mobile advertising corporation in Taiwan . The mobile log dataset contains two parts : the impression data and the click data . The impression data records the status when an advertising message ( ie , ad ) is displayed to a user , including the device ID , app ID , ad ID , country code , latitude , longitude , and time . The click data records the status when a user click on an advertising message , including the device ID , app ID , ad ID , and time .
The dataset is collected from October to December in the year of 2012 . It is observed that the span of a specific advertising message is not long . Thus , we would like to take recent mobile log data into consideration in the training phase . In the experiments , we divide the three month mobile log data into eleven non overlapped datasets , where each dataset contains the records in about a week . For each dataset , we use the first few days for the training phase , and we use the last few days for testing the recommendation phase .
Fig 1 shows the CTR ( Click Through Rate ) after three approaches ( ie , Baseline , NBCF , and the proposed RAM ) are applied to six of the eleven datasets.2 The CTR is a gen2Another five of the eleven datasets are used for setting the values of weights in the similarity metric .
;
Figure 1 : Results : Click Through Rate . eral metric for evaluating the performance of a recommendation approach , which is the ratio of the number of clicked advertising messages over the number of total advertising messages displayed to users . The Baseline is the naive approach to randomly deliver advertising messages , which has been adopted by the advertising corporation . The NBCF approach represents the Neighborhood Based Collaborative Filtering , which recommends the advertising messages that are clicked by other users sharing similar clicked advertisement records with the target user . According to Fig 1 , the proposed RAM approach outperforms both the Baseline and the NBCF . While the NBCF suffers from the sparsity of clicked advertisement records , the proposed RAM approach could recommend proper advertising messages even to the users without any clicked advertisement record by considering the user profile and the apps used .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we propose a new approach , RAM , to recommend advertising messages in the banner based mobile advertising environment . We define the similarity of users by simultaneously considering user profile , apps used , and clicking history . In the training phase , we cluster the users into groups using DBSCAN , a density based clustering algorithm , and we assign advertising messages to each group based on the NCP ( Normalized Clicking Proportion ) proposed . In the recommendation phase , we decide which group a user belongs to , and the advertising messages corresponding to the group are recommended to the user . The experiments are performed on a real mobile log dataset , and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Ester , H P Kriegel , J . Sander , and X . Xu . A density based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise . In Proc . of KDD , 1996 .
[ 2 ] Y . Koren . Collaborative filtering with temporal dynamics . In Proc . of KDD , 2009 .
[ 3 ] B . Sarwa , G . Karypis J . Konstan . and J . Riedl .
Item based collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms . In Proc . of WWW , 2001 .
[ 4 ] Xiaoyuan Su and Taghi M . Khoshgoftaar . A survey of collaborative filtering techniques . In Advances in Artificial Intelligence , 2009 .
Ϭ͘ϬϬϬ͘ϱϬϭ͘ϬϬϭ͘ϱϬ^Ğƚ &^Ğƚ '^Ğƚ ,^Ğƚ /^Ğƚ :^Ğƚ < ĂƐĞůŝŶĞE &Z D dZ ;йͿ236
