Deriving Latent Social Impulses to Determine Longevous
Videos
University of Illinois at Chicago , USA
University of Illinois at Chicago , USA
Qingbo Hu qhu5@uic.edu
Guan Wang gwang26@uic.edu
Philip S . Yu
University of Illinois at Chicago , USA
King Abdulaziz University , Saudi Arabia psyu@uic.edu
3 1 0 2 c e D 6 2
] I S . s c [
1 v 6 3 0 7
.
2 1 3 1 : v i X r a
ABSTRACT Online video websites receive huge amount of videos daily from users all around the world . How to provide valuable recommendations to viewers is an important task for both video websites and related third parties , such as search engines . Previous work conducted numerous analysis on the view counts of videos , which measure a video ’s value in terms of popularity . However , the longlasting value of an online video , namely longevity , is hidden behind the history that a video accumulates its "popularity" through time . Generally speaking , a longevous video tends to constantly draw society ’s attention . With focus on one of the leading video websites , Youtube , this paper proposes a scoring mechanism quantifying a video ’s longevity . Evaluating a video ’s longevity can not only improve a video recommender system , but also help us to discover videos having greater advertising value , as well as adjust a video website ’s strategy of storing videos to shorten its responding time . In order to accurately quantify longevity , we introduce the concept of latent social impulses and how to use them measure a video ’s longevity . In order to derive latent social impulses , we view the video website as a digital signal filter and formulate the task as a convex minimization problem . The proposed longevity computation is based on the derived social impulses . Unfortunately , the required information to derive social impulses are not always public , which makes a third party unable to directly evaluate every video ’s longevity . To solve this problem , we formulate a semi supervised learning task by using part of videos having known longevity scores to predict the unknown longevity scores . We propose a Gaussian Random Markov model with Loopy Belief Propagation to solve this problem . The conducted experiments on Youtube demonstrate that the proposed method can significantly improve the prediction results comparing to baseline models .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Contemporary Internet world has witnessed the rise of numerous online video websites . According to the statistics , one of the leading online video websites , Youtube , is visited by over 800 million unique users in every month and receives 72 hours of uploaded videos in every minute1 . Such a huge amount of uploaded videos and visiting users have brought about both opportunities and challenges . Investors favor a video website with a large number of registered users and daily visits due to the potential advertising value behind it . For example , the most viewed video in the world , a Korean MV called Gangnam Style , is worth over 8 million U.S dollars in the online advertising deals2 . Therefore , on one hand , in order to attract viewers , video websites must excel in recommending valuable videos to its users . On the other hand , they may also solicit third party like search engines to help make video recommendations .
With access to a registered user ’s profile , log and full information of uploaded videos , a video website is able to make recommendations that the user is potentially interested . However , such protected information is usually missing or incomplete to a third party recommender system . For instance , once a search engine has a set of videos matching to the key words in a user ’s query , the limited information is usually insufficient to make highly valued recommendations . In this case , how to evaluate a video ’s value based on its public information becomes particularly important . A straightforward method to measure the value is based on a video ’s total views , ie popularity . However , it may be problematic to judge a video ’s value solely based on the times it has been watched , which will be introduced in the following paragraphs . 1.1 Popularity vs Longevity
Previously , researchers have proposed numerous approaches to evaluate the popularity of online videos by directly using their views . The concept of popularity usually depends on a video ’s views at a specific time point [ 3 , 5 , 7 , 17 , 20 ] . However , another perspective of a video ’s value , which is the long lasting value , aka longevity , has been hidden behind the view count growth pattern . In recent years , video sharing websites such as Youtube offer detailed information of how a video accumulates its views through time ( such as Figure 1 ) . Such statistical data provides us an opportunity to measure and evaluate a video ’s longevity . Roughly speaking , longevous videos have view count growth patterns that demonstrate promising long term value , ie the ability to continuously attract society ’s attention . Therefore , a longevous video tends to have much higher view count increase in the future comparing to non longevous ones .
1http://wwwyoutubecom/t/press_statistics 2http://abcnewsgocom/blogs/technology/2013/01/psys gangnamstyle is an 8 million blockbuster hit on youtube/
( a ) "Gabrielle Aplin Please Don’t Say You Love Me"
( a ) "Gabrielle Aplin Please Don’t Say You Love Me"
( b ) A repost of "Innocence of Muslims"
Figure 1 : Youtube Statistics of Two Videos ( Feb . 2013 )
Accordingly , evaluating the longevity of videos have three major benefits : ( 1 ) recommending longevous videos to users can improve a website ’s recommender system ; ( 2 ) longevous videos have higher advertising value since they are constantly watched ; ( 3 ) evaluating the longevity can help adjust a video website ’s data storage strategy to shorten its responding time : longevous videos should be stored in quickly accessible locations , since they are frequently visited . Completely ignoring the longevity and only using the popularity to rank the value of online videos may cause problems . Next , we use two real online videos on the Youtube to show that .
Figure 13 displays the Youtube statistical data of two videos at the end of February , 2013 . Both of videos are published in the September , 2012 and accumulated around 2 million views . The first video is a song from a Pop singer , Gabrielle Aplin , and the second video is a repost of a short movie trailer insulting Muslins , which is speculated to trigger the incident of the assassination of U.S ambassador in Libya on September 11 , 2012 . By solely comparing the popularity ( aka views ) , one may have to accept the fact that these two are roughly similar . However , the difference between them is actually easy to be discovered for human by just comparing the shape of curves in Figure 1 : view count in Figure 1(a ) continuously increases in the entire history , while Figure 1(b ) only increases at the very early stage ) . In fact , due to such difference , the future views of the videos are totally different : in the September , 2013 , the first video ’s views reach more than 6 million , while the second one is still less than 2 million ( see screenshots in Figure 2 ) . Therefore , without considering longevity , we may accidentally recommend a popular yet valueless ( even malicious ) movie to viewers in the Febuary , 2013 . Are we able to develop a scoring system to rank different view count growth patterns ? This paper exactly fulfills this quest . The proposed longevity calculation outputs a much higher score for the first video than the second one . In other words , the method judges the first video has a greater long lasting value than the second one . 1.2 Latent Temporal Bias and Social Impulses A straightforward definition of a video ’s longevity can be directly derived from a video ’s view count ’s history . To eliminate ambiguity , we refer "view count ’s history" to the curve in which every point ’s value is the view count ’s difference between two adjacent time points in a video ’s statistical data ( curves in Figure 1 are examples of a video ’s statistical data ) . As a result , a naive defini
3The figures are extracted in Feburary , 2012 , which are the old version figures of Youtube statistical data . The marks of "A" and "B" in the Youtube statistics are the occurrence of related events , such as the time when it is firstly referred in a social network . They are irrelevant to our problems .
( b ) A repost of "Innocence of Muslims"
Figure 2 : Views of Two Videos ( Sep . 2013 ) tion of a video ’s longevity is the number of points having non zero values in the view count ’s history , ie how many time intervals in the video ’s statistical data have non zero view count increase . However , we argue that the definition based on view count ’s history will be inaccurate because of the existence of latent temporal bias . Latent temporal bias is caused by the phenomenon that once a trend in the social media becomes unpopular , its influence will gradually decay instead of suddenly vanish [ 1 ] . One of the possible reasons to cause such phenomena is the delay of user ’s response to an event in social networks [ 18 ] . Therefore , even though we may observe continuous view count increase in history , there may be only a few number of trends stimulating such increase . In this paper , we name these latent stimulus "trends" as social impulses and will provide a formal definition in Section 3 . Although social impulses are latent factors and reasons causing them are not always observable , some major ones can be explained by related events in real life . For instance , Figure 3 shows the social impulses derived by our method for the first "Transformers" movie ’s trailer on the Youtube . As we can see , the two major social impulses actually correspond to related real events : release of sequel movies .
Figure 3 : Derived Social Impulses for the First "Transformers" Movie ’s Trailer
We argue that using the history of social impulses to define longevity will be more reasonable , since it can more or less correct the latent temporal bias in the view count ’s history . Next , we will use a real world case to demonstrate the importance of correcting such bias . Figure 4(a ) is the Google Search trend for the keyword "Simon ’s Cat" , which is an animated cartoon series by Simon Tofield . Since events related to "Simon ’s Cats" are not reported , we use the Google Search trend to infer the existence of such events . Figure 4(b ) are the derived social impulses and the view count ’s history of an episode of "Simon ’s Cat" , respectively . These three figures are all scaled to the same time interval and each time point corresponds to the data in a 7 day time window . As one can see , Google search trend has two obvious peaks at point A and B in Figure 4(a ) . On the one hand , due to the latent temporal bias , view count increase decays slowly after one peak arrives and even causes the view at
01020304050607080901000020406081121416182x 105Social Impulse StrengthTimeJune , 2009Transformer 2 RleasedJune , 2011Transformer 3 Rleased point B’ to be the same as point B . It is more reasonable to consider a large amount of views at B’ are only "side effects" of the event at point B . On the other hand , the history of derived social impulses better captures the major events implied by Google Search trend .
( a ) Google Search Trend of "Simon ’s Cat"
( b ) Detected Social Impulses vs View Count Increase of "Cat Chat Simon ’s Cat"
Figure 4 : Latent Temporal Bias in the view count ’s history of "Simon ’s Cat"
How to discover social impulses becomes one of the major challenges we need to deal with . In the proposed model , we view the Youtube website as a digital signal filter , where the social impulses are input signals and the view count ’s history is the output . Moreover , we define the system ’s impulse response function has an exponential form , which means that an input signal imposed on the system will have an exponentially decay effect on the outputs . Such definition is based on computational models describing user ’s behavior when respond to an event [ 9,18 ] . In this way , we are able to formulate the task of discovering social impulses as a convex optimization problem and solve it . The proposed longevity scoring mechanism is based on the derived social impulses . 1.3 Prediction of Longevity .
As stated previously , the longevity can be quantified based on the history of social impulses , which is derived by correcting the latent temporal bias in the view count ’s history . However , in our crawled dataset , we find that approximately 35 % of the videos do not have public view count ’s histories . The major reason for this is that many posters have turned off the function of displaying videos’ statistical data . As a result , even though measuring a video ’s value is more important to the success of a third party recommender system ( since it usually does not have the viewer ’s information ) , a third party is still not able to directly evaluate the longevity for those videos lacking of view count ’s history . In fact , this is the second major problem we need to solve . In this paper , we investigate the possibility of using public information to predict a video ’s longevity , when its view count ’s history is missing .
As a good news , we discover that most features of a video , such as total views , total shares and etc . , are usually retrievable . Moreover , the list of a video ’s related videos ( aka videos having related content ) is also available . Therefore , we are able to form a connected network containing each video as a node . The nodes in the network are linked through edges representing "related videos" relationship . Moreover , since the longevity score of some nodes are known ( their view count ’s histories are observable ) , these nodes can serve as labeled data . Thus , we formulate the problem of predicting a video ’s longevity score as a semi supervised learning task in a network . Based on the problem formulation , we bring about two baseline methods that one can easily come up with . Furthermore , we also propose a Gaussian Markov Random Field ( GMRF ) model with Loopy Belief Propagation ( LBP ) to solve this semisupervised problem . We conduct extensive experiments on a general video network , which is mixed with videos from different categories , as well as categorized video networks , which only contain videos in the same category . The results show that the proposed GMRF model with LBP can significantly outperform the baselines in terms of the Mean Squared Error ( MSE ) .
We sum up our main contributions as follows : • To the best of our knowledge , we are the first ones to point out the importance and benefits of evaluating a video ’s longlasting value , namely longevity .
• Because of the latent temporal bias , instead of directly quantifying longevity based on the view count ’s history , we argue that it is better to be based on the history of latent social impulses . By viewing an online video website as a digital signal filter , we formulate the problem of deriving latent social impulses as a convex minimization problem and solve it .
• We propose a simple yet useful longevity scoring mechanism based on the derived social impulses . Furthermore , we conduct statistical analysis and case study on a real world dataset to support the rational and analyze the property of the proposed method to compute longevity scores .
• To address the problem of assessing a video ’s longevity when its view count ’s history is not observable to third parties , we formulate a semi supervised task to predict longevity . We propose a solution by using a Gaussian Markov Random field model with Loopy Belief Propagation . The experimental evaluation on the real world dataset confirms the proposed model is significantly better than compared baselines .
The remaining paper is organized as follows . In Section 2 , we introduce the techniques we used to collect data from Youtube and basic statistics of the crawled dataset . In Section 3 , we propose some basic definitions and the approach to derive social impulses . Then , we introduce the method to measure a video ’s longevity . In Section 4 , we formulate the semi supervised learning task of predicting a video ’s longevity score and introduce the proposed Gaussian Markov Random Field model with Loopy Belief Propagation . Experimental evaluation of the proposed model is also in this section . In Section 5 , related work will be introduced . Finally , Section 6 will conclude this paper .
2 . DATASET DESCRIPTION
In this section , we introduce how we collect our dataset from Youtube and basic statistics of the crawled dataset . In order to derive social impulses to quantify the longevity of a video and further formulate the prediction tasks , we need two types of data . The first one is a video ’s public features that displayed in the Youtube website , such as accumulated view count , favorite count , etc . The second type is the view count ’s history . This is used to calculate the longevity score of the video . The final obtained dataset contains a subset of popular ( in terms of accumulated view count ) videos that are published in 2010 .
02468101220304050607080TimeGoogle Search TrendBA0246810122468101214x 106TimeImpulse Strength024681012141618222242628x 107TimeViews IncreaseABABB’ 2.1 Collecting Public Features
We use Youtube API 2.04 to directly collect this part of data . We design the crawling process to target videos categorically5 . For each category , starting from some most viewed videos that are published in 2010 , we initiate a BFS through the "related videos" relationship to collect more videos published in the same category and same year . The search stops until the size of the category reaches a predefined threshold ( 100,000 in our experiment ) . After that , we remove unpopular videos , whose accumulate view counts are less than a threshold ( 30,000 in our case ) , as well as those videos which do not have public view count ’s history . We run this process repeatedly by changing the targeting category . As a result , we obtain videos in six different categories : Animals , Music , News , Nonprofit , Sports and Technology , with total number of 65,016 videos and 117,370 edges6 ( related video relationship ) connecting them . Table 1 elaborates all the public features we have gathered in this step , and Table 2 lists some basic statistics of the crawled dataset . Since sports and music stars often attract more viewers , it is not surprising to see that the dataset is biased towards "Sports" and "Music" videos , while "Animals" and "Nonprofit" videos are much less . The huge difference ( more than ten times ) between the average value of "likes" count and "dislikes" count indicates that the viewers tends to give more positive opinions than negative ones . This is probably caused by that a viewer does not want to offend ( mark "dislikes" ) a video poster unless him/herself is seriously offended . The average length of a video in our dataset is less than 5 minutes , which is consistent with the statistics in [ 3 , 5 ] .
Feature id category viewCount favoriteCount averageRating length
"like" count "dislike" count
Meaning
Youtube ID of the video category label of the video accumulated views of the video
# of users added the video in the favorite lists the average rating ( 1 to 5 ) received from viewers the length of the video ( in seconds )
# of "Like"s clicked by viewers # of "Dislike"s clicked by viewers
Table 1 : Collected Videos’ Public Features
Total Videos
Total Video Edges
Connected Components
Network Diameter
65,016 Category # videos
Avg . value
Avg . value
117,370
Animals Music 5,918 15,558 viewCount 5000620.81 length ( seconds )
266.95
News 9,674
2,365
Nonprofit
2,394 favoriteCount
978.8
"like" count
1162.51
27
Sports 20,018
Tech . 11,454 averageRating
4.404
"dislike" count
95.18
Table 2 : Statistics of the Youtube Dataset
2.2 Collecting View Count ’s Histories
In order to collect the view count ’s history of a video , we apply the same method introduced in [ 7 ] . When Youtube generates the figure displaying the view count ’s history of a video , it calls a URL provided by Google charts API7 . We analyze the result from the 4https://developersgooglecom/youtube/ 5The category is an inherent property of videos stored by Youtube . 6The final crawled edges are updated to connect videos not only within the same category , but also across different categories . 7The url for generating the figure of statistical data has changed in the current Youtube website . When we crawl the dataset , we are still able to using the same url address described in [ 7 ] same URL for each video and extract all 100 points8 from them . These points are represented as the percentage of the total views . Therefore , by multiplying the final accumulated views to these percentage numbers , we are able to observe how view count is accumulated in history ( such as curves in Figure 1 ) . By taking the difference between the views of two adjacent time points , we obtain the view count ’s history , which contains 99 points denoting the view count increments .
3 . SOCIAL IMPULSES AND LONGEVOUS
VIDEOS
As we stated previously , once a social impulse occurs , it may cause continuous effect on the view count ’s history . Therefore , we define the longevity of a video based on the history of social impulses , instead of directly using view count ’s history . In this section , we introduce some basic definitions , our approach to derive social impulses and the method to compute longevity . After that , we use statistical analysis and a case study to demonstrate how the longevity can offer information of a video ’s long lasting value . 3.1 Social Impulses 311 Derivation of Latent Social Impulses To be more clear , we first define some basic concepts . It is natural to view both social impulses and view count ’s history are series of non negative digital signal at discrete time steps . Therefore , we can further treat a video website as a time invariant digital signal filter to model the relationship between social impulses and view count ’s history . Formally , this filter is named as video signal filter , which has a mathematical definition according to the basic knowledge in the digital signal processing area :
DEFINITION 3.1
( VIDEO SIGNAL FILTER ) . For a given nonnegative vector x = ( x0 , x1 , xN ) , a video signal filter is a function of mapping x to another non negative vector , y = ( y0 , y1 , yN ) , with the following discrete convolution holds : k yk(k={0,1,,N} ) = xi · hk−i i=0 hi is the filter ’s Impulse Response Function ( IRF ) , which maps i(i = 0 , 1 , n ) to a non negative real number .
Accordingly , social impulses and view count ’s history have the following mathematical definition , respectively :
DEFINITION 3.2
( SOCIAL IMPULSES ) . Social impulses are in put signals to a video signal filter , which is a non negative vector . To be consistent with Def . 3.1 , we denote them as x = ( x0 , x1 , xN ) .
DEFINITION 3.3
( VIEW COUNT’S HISTORY ) . A view count ’s history is a series of output signals from a video signal filter , which is a non negative vector . To be consistent with Def . 3.1 , we denote it as y = ( y0 , y1 , yN ) .
In order to derive social impulses ( inputs ) according to view count ’s history ( outputs ) , we first need to define the IRF in Def . 31 We use a exponential function with a tunable parameter as the IRF , since it is reasonable to assume that the effect of a single impulse to the system will exponentially decay as time goes by . Formally , for i ∈ [ 0 , N ] , we assume hi has the following form :
−γ·i hi = e
8The current Youtube statistical data contains more points hard to imagine that the change of γ will also affect the computed longevity scores . which will be introduced later .
Notation x y y* hi H γ L(∗ ) vi vik wi,j si ψi(∗ ) ψij ( ∗ ) mi→j beli
Meaning
Input signals ( social impulses ) to a video signal filter
Output signals ( view count ’s history ) from a video signal filter Observed output signals ( view count ’s history ) from the dataset
Impulse response function at step i
Matrix representation of impulse response function A tunable parameter in the impulse response function
Longevity Functions . L : x → R
The feature vector representation of video i kth feature ’s value of video i
Weight of the edge connecting i and j
Longevity score of video i Node potential function of i
Edge potential function of the edge connecting i and j
Message sent from i to j in the Loopy Belief Propagation
Beliefs of the node i in the Loopy Belief Propagation
Table 3 : Important Mathematical Notations
Figure 5 : Effect of different γ where γ is a tunable parameter that defines how quickly the effect of a single social impulse decays . With a smaller value of γ , the effect decays more slowly . As a result , the derived social impulses are the more significant ones , which means the input signals tend to be sparser . Otherwise , the derived social impulses will be denser .
As a result , we have a series of observed output signals ( actual view count ’s history from dataset ) and the predefined IRF , while the input signals ( social impulses ) are need to be derived . Therefore , if we denote y∗ = ( y∗ n ) as the observed view count ’s history , deriving social impulses can be formulated as a constrained Least Square Estimation problem :
1 , y∗
0 , y∗
N i − yi]2 ∗ minxi : [ y subject to : ∀i , xi ≥ 0 i=0
For simplicity , we rewrite the problem in the following matrix form :
H is the matrix representing IRF , which is a lower triangular matrix : minx : y ∗ − Hx2 subject to : x 0
2 fl e−γ·(i−j ) i ≥ j i < y hi,j =
0
Impulse Response Functions with Different γ
As we can see , since γ is a constant we predefined , H will be a matrix containing non negative constants , and the above problem becomes a standard convex minimization problem . Therefore , we can employ the method in [ 11 ] to efficiently obtain a global optima x for any given output signal y∗ . Table 3 lists all the important notations we use in this paper . 312 In this subsection , we analyze how the change of γ value affects the derived social impulses . By changing the value of γ , we can obtain different IRFs . Such adjustment directly relates to the significance of the derived social impulses . As we stated previously , with a small γ value , the obtained input signals vector , x , tends to be sparser . We will use the same example introduced in Figure 4 to show the influence of the change of γ value . Figure 5 displays the derived social impulses of the video in Figure 4 with different γ values . It is straightforward to see that with a smaller γ , derived social impulses are more isolated ( sparser solution of x ) . Moreover , the strength of them are weaker compare to a larger γ value . This is easy to understand : an early impulse have more significant influence to the future under a smaller γ , so the effect of later derived social impulses are considered weaker . Furthermore , it is not
3.2 Discovering Longevous Videos 321 Computation of Longevity Intuitively , longevous videos refer to those videos which can continuously attract society ’s interest . In other words , a longevous video tends to receive more social impulses than others . In order to quantify such abstract concept , we introduce a family of functions , namely Longevity Functions :
DEFINITION 3.4
( LONGEVITY FUNCTIONS ) . Longevity functions is a family of functions that map social impulses to a real number . Formally , a longevity function is denoted as L(x ) : x → R .
N
The values returned by a longevity function are called Longevity Scores , which can be used to compare the longevity of different videos . In this paper , we construct the longevity function by considering two important factors related to the intuition of longevity . ( i ) Longevity refers to the videos which have more active social impulses . Therefore , instead of incorporating the strength of social impulses in the longevity function , we should use the occurrence of social impulses . ( ii ) Social impulses occur later should be more valuable , since it implies that even after a long time when a video is published , it can still attract viewer ’s attention . As a result , we first propose ri to evaluate the longevity based on xi : ri =
[ I{z|z≥ }(xi ) · ( 1 + log(1 + i) ) ]
( 1 ) i=0 where I{z|z≥ }(xi ) is an indicator function indicating the occurrence of a social impulse at the time i , and is used to filter out possible noise . ( 1+log(1+i ) ) is a weighting term providing larger values to later social impulses . We use a log function to avoid the weight dominating ri . Then , in order to simplify the computed longevity scores , we use a integer scale from 0 to 100 based on ri : we compute the percentage number of each ri to the largest one and further round the result to the closest integer . Therefore , the proposed longevity function is written as follows :
L1(x ) = Round( ri maxi{ri} ∗ 100 )
( 2 )
At last , the proposed longevity function , L1 , by Equation ( 2 ) outputs a score from 0 ( least long lasting value ) to 100 ( greatest long lasting value ) for each video . In practice , if γ is allowed to be changed , we can set = 0 . The reason is that by tuning the value of γ we can also achieve the goal of filtering out insignificant social impulses ( noise ) . Therefore , in the sequel of this article , we set = 0 in the experiments and analysis unless we specify otherwise .
0102030405060708090100024681012141618x 106Time PointsSocial Impulse Strength γfl=0.3 γ=0.7 Figure 6 : ( Log scaled ) Average View Count Increase of Videos with Same Longevity Score ( γ = 0.3 )
3.3 Support and Analysis of L1 Function
To support that the proposed longevity function can well capture a video ’s long lasting value , we use the similar method in the examples demonstrated in Figure 2 . First of all , we retrieve the view counts of all videos in the September , 2013 , which is more than 10 months later since we crawled the original dataset . Afterwards , for videos having the same longevity score , we compute the average view count increase in this time gap . Therefore , such results reflect how a video ’s longevity score computed by L1 correlates to its future view count increase . Figure 6 demonstrates the results we obtained when γ=0.3 , and the results for other γ values are similar . Generally speaking , L1 favors videos that can accumulate more views in the future , which reflects a video ’s long lasting value . Such observation confirms the rational of L1 .
In addition , we provide a case study containing two picked videos whose scores are small ( =13 ) and large ( =90 ) , respectively , when γ = 03 The first video is in the Sports category and contains the playback of a goal in a soccer game . The second video is in the Music category and contains a live show of Bruno Mars , a famous American singer . These two videos are specifically selected as a case study because their published dates were close and both have received around 1.9 million views at the time when we collect data . However , as we can see in Figure 7 , the view count increase of the first video ceased at the very early stage and its history of social impulse contains only a very few spikes . The second video ’s view count , on the other hand , has a more steady growth pattern of view count and its history of social impulses is more active . The proposed longevity quantification method well captures the difference between these two growth patterns : it outputs a relatively small score ( 13 ) for the first video and a larger score ( 90 ) for the second one . In fact , similar to the videos in Figure 1 , when we revisit these two studied videos in the September , 2013 , we discover that the first video ’s total views are still around 1.9 million , yet the second video has received around 3 million total views . This again confirms that L1 can effectively measure a video ’s long lasting value .
Next , we demonstrate the longevity score distribution of all videos in the crawled dataset , and how it is affected by the change of the value of γ . Figure 8 shows the distribution under different assignments of γ . As we can see , the score distribution is roughly a Gaussian distribution , while γ has a significant effect on the mean value of the calculated longevity scores . Such phenomenon can also be explained by our previous statements about the effect of changing γ value : when γ is smaller , we assume the system ’s response to a single social impulse decays more slowly , and the calculated social impulse vectors tend to be sparser . Since the longevous score is related to the number of social impulses whose strength are greater than a constant threshold ( ) , the mean of the longevity scores nat
( a ) Accumulated Views of a nonLongevous video
( b ) Social Impulse History of a non Longevous video
( c ) Accumulated Views of a Longevous video
( d ) Social Impulse History of a Longevous video
Figure 7 : Case Study of Longevous and non Longevous Videos ( γ = 0.3 )
Figure 8 : Longevity Score Distribution for Different γ urally decreases along with the decrease of γ .
At last , as we introduced in the data collection section , we have organized a video network consisting of videos as nodes and "related video" relationship as edges . Based on this network , we further examine the difference between the scores of neighboring videos : for each edge , we calculate the squared difference of longevity scores between the two neighbors . Moreover , to complete the comparison , we also randomly draw some pairs of videos to calculate the squared difference , and the number of these pairs is exactly equal to the number of edges in the network . Figure 9 shows the average squared difference of longevity scores between the neighboring paris and randomly drawn pairs on the entire video network , as well as the results of this test on the reduced subnetworks by using videos in the same category . The results show that the average squared difference between neighboring videos in the network is much smaller than the randomly picked ones , especially for some categories such as News and Nonprofit . We can easily understand such phenomenon by considering the nature of the video network : two connected videos have similar content and therefore have similar long lasting value . The statistical findings in Figure 9 suggest us that video edges in the network are useful to infer unknown longevity scores from known ones . Such conclusion is crucial to solve the problem of predicting longevity scores .
4 . PREDICTION OF LONGEVITY SCORES 4.1 Task Description
0204060801002468101214Longevity ScoreAverage View Count Increase ( log−scaled)0204060801000051152x 108Time PointViews0204060801000510x 107Time PointSocial Impulse0204060801000051152x 108Time PointViews0204060801000123x 106Time PointSocial Impulse0204060801000500100015002000# videosLongevity Score ( γ=0.1)020406080100050010001500# videosLongevity Score ( γ=0.3)0204060801000500100015002000# videosLongevity Score ( γ=0.5)0204060801000100020003000# videosLongevity Score ( γ=0.7 ) Feature
Pearson Correlation Coefficient view count favorite count average rating length
"like" count "dislike" count
0.1038 0.1116 0.1034 0.0618 0.1065 0.0464
Figure 9 : Average Squared Difference Between Videos
Table 4 : Correlation Between Feature and Longevity Score
In real life , the view count ’s history of a video may not be visible for everyone . As a result , the longevity cannot be directly quantified . This affects more seriously to third party recommender systems , since they have almost zero information of a viewer ’s profile and only public information of videos . In fact , during the period of collecting videos , we observe that around 65 % of checked videos do not contain any view count ’s history . For certain categories , such as music , this number is even larger . The main reason behind this phenomenon is that many publishers of videos have turned off the function of providing public view count ’s history . Especially when the publisher of music videos are commercial companies , most of them choose not to unveil the history of view counts for their own interest . However , there are two types of data that are always available for every video : public features listed in Table 1 and the connection between videos through "related video" relationship .
To sum up , in a real life scenario , we are able to observe some videos’ longevity scores ( since their view count ’s histories are available ) , while others are unobservable and need to be predicted . Moreover , we are also able to obtain every video ’s public features and a network connecting different videos . Therefore , we can formulate the problem of predicting the longevity scores as a semi supervised learning problem : a network mixed with labeled ( known longevity scores ) and unlabeled nodes ( longevity scores need to be inferred ) . Afterwards , some interesting questions arise : ( 1 ) are we able to predict a video ’s longevity score by only using the public features ? ( 2 ) How can we utilize the network of videos to make improvement ? In the following paragraphs , we use the longevity score calculated when γ = 0.3 as the ground truth . The reason for doing this is that in Figure 8 , we are able to observe a complete Gaussian like distribution of the calculated longevity scores under γ = 0.3 and thus can make a clearer distinguish between longevous and nonlongevous videos . In the following paragraphs , we will first introduce baseline models , as well as the proposed Gaussian Markov Random Field ( GMRF ) model with Loopy Belief Propagation ( LBP ) to solve this semi supervised learning problem . Afterwards , we will use experiments on the crawled Youtube dataset to evaluate the proposed approach comparing to the two baselines . 4.2 Baseline Models
Regression Baseline9 A straightforward idea to predict longevity scores is to use regression on public features and assign videos to the closest possible scores according to the regression results . Therefore , except for "id" and "category" in Table 1 , we include all other numerical features into the regression task . To begin with , we first examine the Pearson correlation between each feature and the longevity score ( Table 4 ) . As one can see , all features have positive correlation with the longevity score yet the correlation is not much 9We tried classification algorithms by viewing scores as different labels . However , the result is generally much worse . For example , the mean squared error of a decision tree algorithm is more than 50 % worse than the linear regression method . significant , especially for the length of videos and "dislike" count . Such statistical finding informs us relying on a single feature , such as accumulated views , is not able to provide an accurate prediction of a video ’s longevity score . Therefore , we apply linear regression on all these features to predict more accurate scores . Later experiment will demonstrate the performance of this model .
K Nearest Neighbor Baseline . Previously , we have used statistical method to demonstrate the difference between neighbor videos are much smaller than random picked video pairs . Obviously , a natural method to predict a video ’s longevity score is to find the k nearest videos whose longevity scores are observable and use the mode of these scores as the prediction result . In order to select the best k , we search in a range of values for each time we use the algorithm , and only report the best prediction result in later experiments . This K Nearest Neighbor style approach and its extensions are constantly used in semi supervised learning tasks [ 16 , 21 ] . 4.3 Gaussian Markov Random Field ( GMRF )
Model
Motivated by statistical analysis in the section 3 , we believe Gaussian Markov Random Field ( GMRF ) model is a wise choice for this problem . Therefore , we adopt the framework in [ 21 ] with necessary adjustments and extensions to fit our problem setting . First , for a node ( video ) , say i , in the network , we represent it as an mdimensional vector vi = ( vi1 , vi2vim ) , which stores the value of each feature and m is the total number of features . In our case , the node ’s features are the same ones used in the linear regression baseline , which means m = 6 . For every edge connecting two nodes , say vi and vj , we assign the following edge weight : ( vik − vjk)2 wi,j = exp , − m
( 3 ) k=1
ς 2 k k is the variance of the kth feature . By dividing ς 2 where ς 2 k in Equation ( 3 ) , we are able to scale the effect of different features to the similar magnitude , since the numerical difference for some features , such as view count , are much larger than the others , such as video ’s average rating . Generally speaking , if two adjacent nodes are more similar to each other with respect to their features , Equation ( 3 ) tends to assign a greater weight to the edge connecting them . Of course , for any non connected pairs of nodes , wi,j = 0 .
In order to simplify the model , we assume that each node ’s longevity score is drawn from the same distribution . Therefore , if we denote a node ’s longevity score as si ( si = {0100} ) , we define the following Gaussian form of node potential function , which is identical to every node :
ψi(si ) = exp , − 1
· ( si − µ)2
σ2
2 where µ and σ2 are constants that can be estimated by fitting the distribution of longevity scores to Gaussian distribution . Intuitively , if two nodes connected by an edge with larger weight , we believe
AllAnimalMusicNewsNonprofitSportsTech40060080010001200 Neighboring PairsRandomly Picked Pairs their labels ( longevity scores ) should be similar . As a result , the edge potential functions have the following quadratic form :
ψij(si , sj ) = exp , − 1
· wi,j(si − sj)2
2 where si and sj are the longevity scores of the two connected nodes . It is easy to see that ψi,j(si , sj ) = ψj,i(sj , si ) , since all the edges in the network are undirected . Finally , the proposed pairwise GMRF is : p(s|µ , σ ) =
1 Z
ψi(si )
ψij(si , sj )
( 4 ) i i,j where Z is the partition function . As we can see in Equation ( 4 ) , the node potential functions serve like prior knowledge about a node ’s label , while the edge potential functions depict the relationship between two adjacent nodes . Since µ and σ are estimated constants and there is no additional parameter in the GMRF , we only need to focus on the inference of each unknown video ’s longevity score . 4.4
Inference by Loopy Belief Propagation ( LBP )
Unlike the baseline model proposed in [ 21 ] , we are not able to directly use the close form solution in matrix representation to performance inference on the proposed GMRF . The reason is that similar to social networks , video networks are also usually very sparse . As a consequence , the video network contains isolated nodes with no edge at all , as well as the connected components that only have unlabeled nodes . Therefore , these nodes will be singular points in the matrix form solution proposed in [ 21 ] . To overcome this problem , we adopt Loopy Belief Propagation ( LBP ) on the GMRF to infer each unlabeled node ’s longevity score .
For each node in every iteration , the LBP algorithm has two steps : sending message to its neighbors and updating its own beliefs . In the first step , if the score of a node , say i , is unknown , the message sent from it to an adjacent node , j , denoted as mi→j is a vector calculated in the following way : mi→j(sj ) =
ψi(si)ψi,j(si , sj ) mk→i(si )
( 5 ) si k∈nbri\j k∈nbri\j where nbri is the set of neighbors of node i , and nbri\j denotes nbri discarding j . However , if the score of node i is known , the message sent from it to an adjacent node j is calculated as follows : mi→j(sj ) = ψi(si)ψi,j(si , sj ) mk→i(si )
( 6 )
As shown in Equation ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) , the message sent from one node to one of its neighbors is constructed by discarding the message received from the neighbor . The difference between Equation ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) is that when a node is unlabeled , the message sent from it is constructed based on the summation of potential functions on its all possible scores , while the message sent from a labeled node is generated by fixing its score to the observed true value . This process makes a labeled node , say i , like a radio station filtering out any incorrect information ( ie ignoring mj→i(si ) when si is not the true score ) in the received message and continuously broadcasting the same type of message directly based on the truth .
In the second step of LBP , for each unknown node i , we update its beliefs ( represented as a vector , beli ) as follows : beli(si ) =
· ψi(si )
1 Zi mj→i(si )
( 7 ) j∈nbri where Zi is a normalization factor to ensure the summation of beli(si ) on si = {0100} exactly equals to 1 . Of course , if a node ’s score is known , we directly fix its beliefs : fl 1 ( si is equal to the true value ) beli(si ) =
0 otherwise
( 8 )
In each iteration of the LBP , we continuously apply Equation ( 5 ) ∼ ( 8 ) on every node . The LBP stops until the beliefs of nodes stabilize or the number of iterations reaches a predefined bound to control the algorithm ’s running time . In our experiments , we set the bound to be 100 , since the diameter of the network is only 27 ( Table 2 ) . The final predicted score for an unlabeled node i is the score having the maximum belief , which is argmaxsi Algorithm 1 summarizes the proposed GMRF model with LBP .
,beli(si) .
Algorithm 1 Loopy Belief Propagation on the proposed GMRF Require :
G = ( V , E , W ) : A video network . V is the node set and V = U ∪ L , where U is the set of unlabeled nodes and L is the set of labeled nodes ( U ∩ V = ∅ ) . E is the set of edges . W stores the weight of each edge . T : Iteration bound for LBP to control running time . else if vi ∈ U then for each node vi ∈ V do use ( 6 ) construct message and ( 8 ) to update beli . use ( 5 ) construct messages and ( 7 ) to update beli .
Ensure : S : { ˆsi | ˆsi is the predicted score of node vi , ∀ vi ∈ U } 1 : Initialize all messages mi→j(sj ) = 1 2 : t=0 3 : while beli is not stabilized and t ≤ T do 4 : 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : end if 9 : end for 10 : 11 : t++ 12 : end while 13 : S = ∅ 14 : for each node vi ∈ U do 15 : ˆsi = argmaxsi beli(si ) S = S ∪ { ˆsi} 16 : 17 : end for 18 : return S
4.5 Experiments
Motivated by different real world scenarios , we propose two experiments on the crawled Youtube dataset to evaluate the proposed GMRF and two baseline models .
Prediction on the whole network : this task corresponds to the situation that we do not specify a particular video category . In this experiment , we randomly divide the nodes in the network into two sets . The nodes in the first set will be labeled , which means the longevity scores are known , and the nodes in the second set will be unlabeled . The tested ratios of the unlabeled nodes to all nodes are 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.3 , 0.4 and 05 On the generated networks , we apply different algorithms to infer the longevity scores of all unlabeled nodes and record the Mean Squared Error ( MSE ) of the predicted scores for each algorithm . In order to be accurate , for each ratio of unlabeled nodes in network , we repeatedly to generate 50 networks , and the reported MSE is the average result on the 50 networks .
Prediction on the categorized sub networks : Sometimes , we may have a target category of videos in mind . For example , a search engine should definitely recommend Sports rather than Animals video if the viewer ’s key words are all related to sports . In this experiment , we explore whether it will be easier to predict the longevity scores in some categories than the others . We reduce the network to 6 sub networks only containing nodes that belong to the same category , and the edge set is also reduced accordingly . Afterwards , similar to the prediction on the whole network , based on every sub network , we randomly generate 50 networks with different unlabeled node ratios ( 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.3 , 0.4 , 05 ) Of course , since the prior knowledge of the longevity scores in different video categories may vary , when we apply the GMRF model , we need to change the µ and σ in the node potential function accordingly . Similar to obtaining µ and σ in the whole network , the updated µ and σ can be computed by Gaussian fitting on longevity scores within the specific category . The reported MSEs are also the average values .
( a ) Animals
( b ) Music
( c ) News
( d ) Nonprofit
Figure 10 : Average MSEs of Predicted Scores
For the first prediction task on all videos , average MSEs on networks having different proportions of unlabeled nodes are reported in Figure 10 . As we can see , the proposed GMRF with LBP significantly outperforms the other baselines . Moreover , the performance of compared algorithms are all stable despite the change of the ratio of unlabeled nodes . For linear regression model , such phenomena is easy to explain : since labeled and unlabeled nodes are randomly divided , we expect the distribution of labeled nodes’ features and longevity scores are all persistent despite the change of labeled ratio . As a result , the trained model may be very alike and thus have similar prediction power . Similar to the linear regression , we observe that reducing the proportion of labeled nodes is not going to affect the performance of network based methods ( KNN and GMRF ) either . This demonstrates that such methods are also robust in the prediction task . In fact , for a specific semi supervised learning task , such phenomenon is not unique [ 13 ] .
Similar to the whole network , the results on the categorized subnetworks , which are reported in Figure 11 , also confirm that the GMRF algorithm is the best one among all three approaches . What is more , by comparing the results across different sub networks , we discover that predicting longevity scores for videos in Animals , Music and Sports category have lower average mean squared errors than the others . Another interesting finding is that although the KNN algorithm is usually worse than the linear regression , it is better in some specific categories , such as News and Nonprofit .
5 . RELATED WORK
Topics related to the popularity of online videos start to attract the attention from researchers in recent years . Early articles conducted many statistical analysis on the online videos website such as Youtube [ 2–5 , 14 ] . Due to the fact that most of published videos in Youtube are entirely user generated content , the statistics , therefore , demonstrate novel phenomena on major indices that is distinguished from the videos in traditional medias . In previous research , "popularity" is usually a video ’s total views [ 3 , 7 , 17 , 20 ] , which means it evaluates a video ’s value at a certain time point . Motivated by the potential advertising profit , articles such as [ 3 , 17 , 20 ] attempt to use different methods and feature sets to predict a video ’s popularity , aka number of views , in the future . Unlike popularity in this paper , longevity evaluates a video ’s long term value based on its entire history rather than a single point . Moreover , a trend in
( e ) Sports
( f ) Technology
Figure 11 : Average MSEs of Predicted Scores on Categorized Sub networks the society usually causes a decaying effect on a social media system . A good example are the Tweets related to one topic trend in the Twitter network [ 1 ] and the disperse of a news event through an online social network [ 10 ] . As a result , similar effect causes that a single latent trend may stimulate continuous yet decaying increase of a video ’s views . Due to such effect , we believe it is more reasonable to measure the longevity based on the history of latent trends , aka social impulses , rather than the history of view count increase . To derive latent social impulses , we presume that a social impulse has an exponentially tailed effect on a video ’s views . In fact , similar exponential functions are often used to describe an event ’s effect to a online service user . For example , [ 18 ] uses this type of function to model the delay time of a user ’s response to a social trend or event and [ 9 ] uses it to model the influence of a user ’s shared event to his/her friends . Similarly , such exponential influence is also widely exist in the area of signal processing [ 8 , 19 ] . Analogously , we view an online video website as a digital signal filter with an exponential impulse response function . The system takes social impulses as input signals and outputs the view count ’s history . However , unlike predicting a system ’s outputs with inputs , which is very common in the signal processing area , we need to estimate the system ’s inputs with known outputs . By using least squared error estimation , deriving social impulses is formulated as a convex optimization problem .
In the part of predicting a video ’s longevity score , the video ’s network connected by "related videos" relationship is very crucial . Previously , articles like [ 6 , 12 ] studied such "social network" of Youtube videos . Unlike human spontaneously form the link to each other , videos are connected according to their content . Interestingly , researchers found that the video ’s network has many common points with human social networks , such as the "small world" phenomenon [ 12 ] . With the help of the video ’s network , we are able to formulate the prediction problem of a video ’s longevity score as a semi supervised learning task . Therefore , we are able to adopt the framework in [ 21 ] , which uses Gaussian Markov Random
0102030405450500550600650700Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405300400500600Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405300400500600Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405600700800900Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405500600700800Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405400500600700Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP0102030405500600700800900Proportion of Unlabeled Nodes in the NetworkAverage Mean Sqaured Error Linear RegressioinKNNGMRF−LBP Field and harmonic functions . However , unlike the original model only has edge potential functions , we also add node potentials by using prior knowledge derived from statistical analysis . Moreover , the original model deals with a general prediction problem , while our problem has a specific setting : the network is very sparse . Because of this phenomena , the close form solution proposed in [ 21 ] will have many singular points which cannot be estimated . Therefore , we apply Loopy Belief Propagation algorithm [ 15 ] on the proposed model to infer the unknown longevity scores . According to the experiments , such adjustments make the proposed method better fits our problem and yields promising results .
6 . CONCLUSION
As a new thriving force in the online world , video sharing websites largely enrich online media and generate huge opportunities for business . In this paper , we have discussed the benefit of evaluating and scoring the long lasting value , aka longevity , for both third party companies and video websites . A longevous video tends to keep attracting society ’s attention , and thus has higher view count increase in the future . Based on the crawled data from Youtube , we discuss the latent temporal bias in a video ’s view count ’s history , which is the decaying effect that any event/trend may impose on a social media system . Through examples of real online videos , we argue the necessity to correct such bias before we evaluate a video ’s longevity . Social impulses are derived latent factors stimulating the increase of a video ’s view count . The proposed longevity calculation is based on the history of social impulses , since it can reduce the influence of the latent temporal bias and therefore to be more reasonable . In order to derive social impulses behind a video ’s view count ’s history , we view the video website as a digital signal filter and formulate this task as a convex optimization problem . As a result , the history of social impulses can be easily derived and the longevity thus can be quantified . However , unfortunately , not every online video has a public view count ’s history . Therefore , it becomes a challenge for third parties to evaluate longevity of all videos with limited public information . In the second part of this paper , we exploit the possibility to predict a video ’s longevity when the view count ’s history is missing . We formulate this problem as a semi supervised learning task and use public features of videos , as well as the network constructed by "related videos" relationship to solve it . The proposed method is a Gaussian Markov Random Field model with Loopy Belief Propagation algorithm . At last , the experiments on the crawled dataset show that the proposed model significantly outperforms other baseline methods .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Asur , B . A . Huberman , G . Szabo , and C . Wang . Trends in social media : Persistence and decay . In ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] Z . Avramova , S . Wittevrongel , H . Bruneel , and
D . De Vleeschauwer . Analysis and modeling of video popularity evolution in various online video content systems : Power law versus exponential decay . In First International Conference on Evolving Internet . , pages 95 –100 , 2009 .
[ 3 ] M . Cha , H . Kwak , P . Rodriguez , Y . Ahn , and S . Moon . I tube , you tube , everybody tubes : analyzing the world ’s largest user generated content video system . In Proceedings of Conference on Internet Measurement ’07 , pages 1–14 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] M . Cha , H . Kwak , P . Rodriguez , Y Y Ahn , and S . Moon .
Analyzing the video popularity characteristics of large scale user generated content systems . IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking , 17(5):1357 –1370 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] X . Cheng , C . Dale , and J . Liu . Statistics and social network of youtube videos . In 16th International Workshop on Quality of Service , pages 229 –238 , 2008 .
[ 6 ] X . Cheng and J . Liu . Exploring interest correlation for peer to peer socialized video sharing . ACM Trans . Multimedia Comput . Commun . , 8(1):5:1–5:20 , 2012 .
[ 7 ] F . Figueiredo , F . Benevenuto , and J . M . Almeida . The tube over time : characterizing popularity growth of youtube videos . In Proceedings of ACM WSDM ’11 , pages 745–754 , 2011 .
[ 8 ] M . Hayat and B . Saleh . Statistical properties of the impulse response function of double carrier multiplication avalanche photodiodes including the effect of dead space . Lightwave Technology , Journal of , 10(10):1415–1425 , 1992 .
[ 9 ] T . Iwata , A . Shah , and Z . Ghahramani . Discovering latent influence in online social activities shared cascade poisson processes . In KDD ’13 , 2013 .
[ 10 ] L . Kong , S . Jiang , R . Yan , S . Xu , and Y . Zhang . Ranking news events by influence decay and information fusion for media and users . In Proceedings of the 21st ACM international conference on Information and knowledge management , pages 1849–1853 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 11 ] C . L . Lawson and R . J . Hanson . Solving least squares problems , volume 161 . SIAM , 1974 .
[ 12 ] H . Li , J . Liu , K . Xu , and S . Wen . Understanding video propagation in online social networks . In Proceedings of IEEE IWQoS ’12 , pages 21:1–21:9 , 2012 .
[ 13 ] P . Li , X . Wu , and X . Hu . Mining recurring concept drifts with limited labeled streaming data . ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology ( TIST ) , 3(2):29 , 2012 .
[ 14 ] S . Mitra , M . Agrawal , A . Yadav , N . Carlsson , D . Eager , and
A . Mahanti . Characterizing web based video sharing workloads . ACM Trans . Web , 5(2):8:1–8:27 , May 2011 . [ 15 ] K . P . Murphy , Y . Weiss , and M . I . Jordan . Loopy belief propagation for approximate inference : An empirical study . In Proceedings of the Fifteenth conference on Uncertainty in artificial intelligence , pages 467–475 . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc . , 1999 .
[ 16 ] K . Ozaki , M . Shimbo , M . Komachi , and Y . Matsumoto .
Using the mutual k nearest neighbor graphs for semi supervised classification of natural language data . In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning , CoNLL ’11 , pages 154–162 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2011 .
[ 17 ] H . Pinto , J . M . Almeida , and M . A . Gonçalves . Using early view patterns to predict the popularity of youtube videos . In Proceedings of the 6th ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , WSDM ’13 , pages 365–374 , 2013 .
[ 18 ] K . Saito , M . Kimura , K . Ohara , and H . Motoda . Selecting information diffusion models over social networks for behavioral analysis . In Proceedings of the 2010 European conference on Machine learning and knowledge discovery in databases : Part III , ECML PKDD’10 , pages 180–195 , 2010 .
[ 19 ] E . Smith . Localization in nonuniform media : Exponential decay of the late time ginzburg landau impulse response . Physical Review B , 58(9):5346 , 1998 .
[ 20 ] G . Szabo and B . A . Huberman . Predicting the popularity of online content . ACM Commun . , 53(8):80–88 , Aug . 2010 . [ 21 ] X . Zhu , Z . Ghahramani , J . Lafferty , et al . Semi supervised learning using gaussian fields and harmonic functions . In ICML , volume 3 , pages 912–919 , 2003 .
