Exploring the User Generated Content ( UGC ) Uploading
Behavior on YouTube
Jaimie Y . Park
Jiyeon Jang
Division of Web Science and
Department of Computer
Technology , KAIST
Daejeon , Korea jaimie@islabkaistackr
Science , KAIST Daejeon , Korea jiyjang@kaistackr
∗ Alejandro Jaimes
Yahoo Labs
New York City , USA ajaimes@yahoo inc.com
Chin Wan Chung
Dept of Computer Science
Div of Web Science and Tech ,
Sung Hyon Myaeng Dept of Computer Science
Div of Web Science and Tech ,
KAIST
Daejeon , Korea chungcw@kaist.edu
KAIST
Daejeon , Korea myaeng@kaistackr
ABSTRACT YouTube is the world ’s largest video sharing platform where both professional and non professional users participate in creating , uploading , and viewing content . In this work , we analyze content in the music category created by the nonprofessionals , which we refer to as user generated content ( UGC ) . Non professional users frequently upload content ( UGC ) that are parodies , remakes , or covers of the music videos uploaded by professionals , namely the official record labels . Along with the success of official music videos on YouTube , we find the increased participation of users in creating the UGC related to the music videos . In this study , we characterize the UGC uploading behavior in terms of what , where , and when . Furthermore , we measure the relationship between the popularity of the original content and creation of the related UGC . We find that the UGC uploading behavior is different depending on the types of the UGC and across different genres of music videos . We also find that UGC sharing is a highly global activity ; popular UGC is created from all over the world despite the fact that the popular music videos originate from a very limited number of locations . Our findings imply that utilizing the information on re created UGC is important in order to understand and to predict the popularity of the original content .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Web based services
∗This work was performed while the author was a visiting professor at KAIST , Division of Web Science and Technology , under the WCU ( World Class University ) program .
General Terms Human Factors , Measurement
Keywords User Generated Content , YouTube , Popularity Analysis , Digital Media , Social Media , Video Streaming Service
1 .
INTRODUCTION
YouTube is the largest video sharing site in the world . It has been reported that more than 1 billion unique users visit the site , watching over 6 billion hours of videos on a daily basis1 . YouTube is unique in that it is a truly participatory platform , where many users are self publishing consumers [ 5 ] . In other words , a large portion of YouTube content is generated by non professionals . We refer to such content as user generated content ( UGC ) . With the advancement of video recording and editing technologies , the quality of UGC has become more compelling to the audience . In the early days of the YouTube service , there was a perception that user generated content was inferior to professionally produced content2 . And to this day , professional content still commands higher ad rates . However , we have witnessed a continuous growth in the extent to which users participate in creating and viewing UGC , which highlights the importance of understanding the phenomenon at a deeper level .
In this study , we put our focus on the videos that belong to the “ music ” category . We are particularly interested in observing the phenomenon in which users create parodies , remakes , or covers of the music videos uploaded on YouTube . When a music video becomes a hit on YouTube , we see many related UGC springing up on YouTube as well . For instance , when a Korean pop “ Gangnam Style ” by the artist Psy became a hit in 2012 , millions of parodies , re
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482576945
1YouTube statistics . retrieved on Feb 2nd , 2014 . http://wwwyoutubecom/yt/press/statisticshtml 2YouTube : growth in user generated content is outpacing official videos . retrieved on Feb 2nd , 2014 . http://wwwbillboardcom/biz/articles/news/1178328/youtubegrowth in user generated content is outpacing officialvideos makes , and covers flourished on YouTube . Inspired by this phenomenon , we study whether the popularity of a music video on YouTube is related to the volume of related UGC . Furthermore , we explore what types of UGC are being uploaded on YouTube , where , and when .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work that examines the phenomenon of creating music related UGC with respect to the success of its original video . The questions addressed in this study include , but are not limited to , the following :
• What types of music video related UGC do users cre ate ?
• Do people create different types of UGC depending on the genre of the music ?
• Which countries are involved in uploading UGC ? How geographically diverse is the UGC uploading behavior ? • When are UGC uploaded ? How long does it take for UGC to be uploaded after the release of original music videos ?
• Is there a difference in the UGC upload time depending on the type ( parodies , remakes , covers , etc . ) of the UGC ?
• Is UGC uploading related to the popularity of music videos on YouTube ?
The results of our analysis show that the music video popularity and UGC upload frequency are strongly correlated , highlighting the importance of analyzing the UGC uploading behavior in understanding the popularity of the original content . We further find that UGC uploading behavior is different depending on the types of the UGC and across different genres of music videos . We also find that UGC sharing is a highly global activity ; popular UGC is created all over the world despite the fact that the popular music videos originate from a very limited number of locations .
2 . RELATED WORK
Studies on user generated content online mainly fall into one of two bodies of research : characterizing the popularity of videos and predicting the popularity of videos . Cha et al . ’s work [ 5 ] was one of the first works to collect and analyze large scale YouTube data in order to understand the popularity lifecycle of videos . Following their work , there have been ongoing interests in investigating the temporal dynamics and evolution of video popularity among the research community as well as industry . Related studies mainly focus on modeling , classifying , and predicting the popularity of videos on YouTube [ 3 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 11 ] . Brodersen et al . [ 4 ] address the problem of analyzing the spatial properties in addition to the temporal properties of the videos . Baek and Shin [ 2 ] examine the relationship between cultural distance and intercultural consumption of content on YouTube . Susarla et al . [ 10 ] study the impact of social influence in popularity of content on YouTube . Our investigation is different from the existing body of work since we study the particular phenomenon where non professional users “ re ” create the works of professionals . Although extensive efforts have been put into analyzing the popularity of videos on YouTube , there has not yet been an attempt to understand the behavior of recreating the content in forms of parodies , remakes , or covers . Since these recreated content can potentially influence the popularity of the original content , it is worthwhile to study this new facet of YouTube video popularity and sharing phenomenon .
3 . THE YOUTUBE DATA
In this section , we describe the data used for analysis , and the method to collect the data . 3.1 Top Music Videos ( MVs )
We first collected the 1,000 most viewed YouTube videos using the YouTube API3 . The YouTube API returns up to 1,000 most viewed videos across all categories available on YouTube . After the collection we selected the videos that belong to the music category . In total 461 out of the 1,000 most viewed videos belong to the music category . The majority of them are official videos uploaded by the entertainment agencies or record labels , for many agencies manage accounts on YouTube in order to share content , collect opinions from the audience , and connect with fans . Official videos are easily distinguishable from the non official videos , namely UGC , because the former are tagged as premium videos by the YouTube service . The official videos were mainly newly released music videos , while some of them were clips of live performances or concert scenes . We chose the top 100 official “ music videos ” uploaded by the official agencies . 3.2 Top MV Related UGC
We further collected the user generated content that is related to the top music videos . Before collecting the UGC , we manually parsed out the title of the song and the name of the artist from the top 100 music video titles . We then used the YouTube API to search for and retrieve the UGC whose titles contain the song title , artist name , and any of the following designated terms : acoustic , cover , dance , flash mob , parody , reaction , remake , and remix . These terms , which represent the popular types of UGC being frequently uploaded by YouTube users , were selected through the following procedure : we collected the top 1,000 most viewed music related UGC uploaded by non professionals , computed the term frequency for every word that appears in at least one of the 1,000 UGC titles , then picked the terms that refer to the type of UGC . Figure 1 is an illustration of the title term
3YouTube API . https://developersgooglecom/youtube/
Figure 1 : Title Term Frequency Word Cloud for Most Viewed UGC
Figure 2 : UGC Type Distribution by Music Genre frequency in the form of tag cloud . Dance , video , official , cover , music , and live appear to be some of the most frequently used terms in the title to describe the most popular UGC . We also find the terms parody , cover , live , acoustic , flash mob , and concert often being part of the video titles . Using the YouTube API , we retrieved the UGC whose titles are composed of a <song title> , <artist name> , and <designated term> . For example , the top most viewed music video on YouTube is Psy ’s “ Gangnam Style ” . We run YouTube searches for 8 different keywords : <Psy Gangnam Style Acoustic> , <Psy Gangnam Style Cover> , <Psy Gangnam Style Dance> , . . . , and <Psy Gangnam Style Remix> . Each search returns up to 1,000 results , which leaves us with a maximum of 8,000 UGC for each music video . In the end , we collect 65,628 related UGC for the top 100 music videos . 3.3 Video Attributes
Each video is associated with the following attributes : title , description , uploaded time , username of the uploader , location of the uploader , and the total view count . These attributes can be automatically extracted using the YouTube API . We also tagged the genre of the music for the top100 most viewed videos . Music genre was automatically retrieved from the Wikipedia page for each song , where one song may belong to multiple genres .
4 . CHARACTERIZING UGC UPLOADING
BEHAVIOR ON YOUTUBE
We study three aspects of UGC uploading behavior on YouTube : what kind of UGC related to popular music videos are uploaded , where , and when .
4.1 What
First , we examine the types of UGC and their distribution depending on the genre of the original music videos . Note that these UGC that we analyzed are related to the topmost viewed music videos . Figure 3 shows the frequency distribution of UGC types , for top 1 , top 10 , and top 100 music videos . Overall , cover , remix , acoustic , and dances are prevalent , while reaction and flash mob types occupy only a small portion of the sample . Figure 2 shows the distribution of UGC types depending on the genre of the music it is dealing with . We find that irrespective of the genre , cover is the most popular type of UGC . Remix UGC is relatively prevalent for dance and electro pop music , but not as popular for other music genre . As expected , R&B music videos spawned the least amount of the dance UGC and the rap music videos are associated with only a few acoustic UGC . The analysis results show that the UGC creation and uploading behavior varies across different genres , which indicates that UGC type analysis can be considered as a possible feature in identifying the genre of the original music video . In the following subsections , we analyze the temporal and spatial properties associated with UGC across different types and genres . 4.2 Where
We now study the geographical diversity of UGC creating activity on YouTube . We start by describing the locations of top 100 most viewed original videos . We regard the location of a video uploader as the location of the music video , which is given in the standard two letter ISO 3166 country code format . The top 100 music videos are generated from 6 different countries , United States ( 87 ) , Great Britain ( 8 ) ,
Figure 3 : Frequency Distribution by UGC Type
Figure 4 : Countries Participated in UGC Uploads
02000600010000Dancecoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mob010002000300040005000R&Bcoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mob05001000150020002500Rapcoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mob0500150025003500Rockcoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mob0500100015002000Electro−Popcoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mobcoverremixacousticdanceparodyremakereactionflash mob19%19%19%18%8%7%6%4%Top 1Top 129%18%17%17%8%4%4%3%Top 10Top 10413%22%101%92%73%37%37%28%Top 100Top 100 LOCoriginal
LOCugc
Frequency
United States United States United States United Kingdom United States United States
United States United Kingdom Canada
Germany
15,588 4,983 2,469 2,242 2,081
Table 1 : Top 5 Frequent ( LOCoriginal , LOCugc ) Pairs
Australia ( 1 ) , Italy ( 1 ) , Korea ( 1 ) , and Spain ( 1 ) , and 1 unknown location . We notice that the majority of them were generated from the United States ( US ) . Now we study the location of the related UGC . Figure 4 illustrates the countries that participated in creating the UGC related to top 1 , top 10 and top 100 music videos . The UGC related to the top 1 original video , “ Gangnam Style ” , were generated from 111 different countries . Top 10 and top 100 original videos were generated from 159 and 208 different countries , respectively . The total number of countries registered as a part of ISO 3166 Country Codes is 249 , which indicates that the UGC related to top 100 most viewed music videos are uploaded worldwide . In other words , despite the fact that the top 100 popular music videos on YouTube were created in only 6 different countries , they triggered interests from worldwide , encouraging user participation from almost every part of the world . Yet we find that the US is the most active in creating UGC , regardless of the UGC types . 29.2 % of the UGC we collected were made in the US .
Furthermore , we explore how the location of the original video ( LOCoriginal ) is associated with that of its UGC ( LOCugc ) . 680 unique pairs of LOCoriginal and LOCugc were found . Table 1 shows the top 5 most frequent pairs . The largest number of UGC ( 15,588 UGC ) , which are uploaded from the US , originated from the US itself . Also , 4,983 UGC uploaded from the UK are derived from the US music videos . For the top 5 pairs , western countries are usually associated with each other .
We now examine the music videos on the top 100 list individually , and compute the number of distinct countries that participated in creating the UGC based on each video . For example Psy ’s “ Gangnam Style ” , the top most popular music video on YouTube , caused participation from 111 different countries . The second most popular music video , Justin Bieber ’s “ Baby ” , led to creation of UGC from 92 different countries . We group the videos based on LOCoriginal and compute the average number of distinct LOCugcs . The average numbers are shown in Table 2 in the second column .
LOCoriginal ( MV Count )
Average No . of Total No . of LOCugc
LOCugc
United States ( 87 ) United Kingdom ( 8 ) South Korea ( 1 ) Australia ( 1 ) Spain ( 1 ) Italy ( 1 )
Total ( 99 )
51 37 110 98 82 73
54
194 123 110 98 82 73
208
On the third column , we aggregate all the videos based on LOCoriginal and find the sum of all distinct LOCugc for each LOCoriginal . As mentioned earlier , US and UK have more than one video on the top 10 list while the other countries appear only once on the top list . Thereby , the average and total number of LOCugc are the same for the last 4 rows of the table .
In total , the top 100 music videos yielded participation from 54 different countries on average ( min=1 , max=110 , sd=30 ) , confirming the idea that popular music videos and UGC are globally associated . We observe the biggest diversity for South Korea , the home of the top 1 music video . Even other countries generated participation from a considerable number of countries , indicating that consumption of popular music on YouTube is an international activity . We further question whether a predominantly large number of distinct countries participating in the UGC production for South Korea is because “ Gangnam Style ” is ranked the top on YouTube or if this is just coincidental . We test if a correlation exists between the popularity of a music video , measured by its view count , and the video ’s “ global ” fame , measured by the number of LOCugcs . We find that the relationship between the two is statistically significant ( p<.01 ) but its effect is weak ( Spearman ’s ρ=027 )
4.3 When
In this section , we look into when the UGC are uploaded after their original videos were uploaded . We first investigate how long it takes for UGC to be uploaded . We computed the time difference between the upload time of the original videos and that of the UGC . For all top 100 original videos , it takes more than a year on average ( 491 days ) . For a more detailed analysis , we investigate whether there is a difference in the UGC upload time depending on the types of UGC ( Figure 5(a ) ) and on the genres of the original music videos ( Figure 5(b) ) . Figure 5(a ) shows that the reaction UGC takes the least amount of time . Reaction videos are the recent trend on YouTube , where the users film themselves watching a music video and express their feelings and comments while watching it . Since most reaction videos are intended to capture the first impressions , they can be created immediately after the original video is uploaded and do
( a ) Elapsed Days by UGC Types
( b ) Elapsed Days by Original Music Genre
Table 2 : Number of LOCoriginal
Figure 5 : Elapsed Time between Original MV Upload and Related UGC Upload ( in Days )
LOCoriginal
LOCugc
Elapsed Days
United Kingdom Isle of Man United States United States South Korea South Korea
Zambia Chad Cayman Islands Liechtenstein
7 9 17 20 30
Table 3 : Top 5 Quickest ( LOCoriginal , LOCugc ) Pairs
LOCoriginal
Avg . Elapsed Days
Spain United States Australia United Kingdom Italy South Korea
741 524 485 451 114 111
Table 4 : Average Time between Original MV Upload and Related UGC Upload ( in Days ) not require any preparation in advance . However , the other types of UGC require some time for the users to familiarize themselves with the original music videos such as learning the dance moves or rearranging the songs and instrumentals . Figure 5(b ) shows the reggae music UGC takes the least amount of time but have high variability . Also , the UGC of dance music videos is uploaded relatively quickly .
We further study when the UGC is spread out to other countries to understand when and where the UGC is uploaded . Table 3 shows the top 5 quickest uploaded non local UGC . The fastest upload of UGC occurred within a week from the day the original was uploaded . The UGC was uploaded from Isle of Man after the original video from the United Kingdom was uploaded . We posit that this is due to the cultural and spatial proximity between the two countries , although further study is necessary to validate the hypothesis . Table 4 shows the locations of the top 100 original music videos and the average time it took for the UGC to be uploaded . We find that it takes the longest on average for the US music videos . It may be due to the uneven data distribution since the US has the most original videos and UGC . A notable point is the relatively small time difference for the South Korean music video , “ Gangnam Style ” . It shows that the UGC on “ Gangnam Style ” was created in more than 100 countries within four months after the official “ Gangnam Style ” music video was uploaded .
5 . YOUTUBE VIDEO POPULARITY AND
UGC UPLOADING BEHAVIOR
In this section , we explore the relationship between the popularity of an official music video with respect to the volume of related UGC being uploaded on YouTube . As explained earlier , “ related ” UGC refers to the recreated content of the original music video including acoustics , covers , dances , flash mobs , parodies , reactions , remakes , and remixes .
We examine the top most viewed music video on YouTube , “ Gangnam Style ” by a Korean pop star Psy . In particular , we question whether there is a correlation between the view count of Gangnam Style music video and the number of
UGC related to Gangnam Style . Figure 7 shows the change in the number of view counts of the official “ Gangnam Style ” music video ( a ) , and the change in the number of “ Gangnam Style ” UGC being created ( b ) over time . The original “ Gangnam Style ” music video has reached its maximum number of views in October 2012 with a sudden jump in the preceding month and a gradual decrease afterwards . We can immediately notice from the graphs that the changes in the number of related UGC uploaded closely resemble the growth pattern of the “ Gangnam Style ” music video view count ; a sudden leap in the number of uploads lead to a peak in September 2012 , followed by a gradual decrease afterwards . Moreover , we observe that the change in the number of UGC uploads precedes the change in the music video view counts , which suggests the potential of utilizing the information from re created UGC for predicting the popularity of the original content . We apply the econometric technique of bivariate Granger causality analysis [ 7 ] to the monthly
( a ) View Counts for “ Gangname Style ” MV over Time
( b ) Number of Related UGC Uploades over Time
Figure 6 : Original Music Video View Counts vs . UGC Upload Frequency video view count ( in millions)0501001502002503002012−072012−082012−092012−102012−112012−122013−012013−022013−032013−042013−05flash mobreactionremakeparodydanceacousticremixcovernumber of UGC uploads05001000150020002012−072012−082012−092012−102012−112012−122013−012013−022013−032013−042013−05 time series of UGC upload volume and original MV view count . Through this analysis , we can test whether the values of time series X will exhibit a statistically significant correlation with the future values of time series Y . In other words , X is said to Granger cause Y if Y can be predicted better by using the histories of both X and Y than using the history of Y alone . The analysis results in a p value below 0.001 , with a lag value of 1 month . It allows us to reject the null hypothesis that UGC upload time series does not predict the popularity ( view counts ) of the original music video , indicating that UGC upload volume Granger causes the original video view count .
6 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this study we explored the phenomenon in which YouTube users create and upload videos that are the “ re creations ” of the popular music videos uploaded by the official record labels or agencies . We identified different types of usergenerated content ( UGC ) including covers , dances , parodies , reactions , flash mobs , etc . , and found that the UGC uploading behavior is different across different types of UGC as well as the genres of the original music videos . In addition , we found that sharing of UGC is a global activity , drawing participation from a world wide audience , and that it is a long lasting activity , where it takes more than a year on average for UGC to be uploaded .
The second phase of our analysis involved correlation analysis between the volume of related UGC and popularity of the original content . We found that the extent to which UGC are uploaded on YouTube is positively correlated with the popularity of the original video , where popularity is measured by the number of view counts . It implies that the analysis of UGC uploading behavior can help one in understanding the popularity of the original content . We supplemented this hypothesis through a Granger causality test , where we provided evidence that the changes in the volume of related UGC uploaded on YouTube is predictive of the changes in the popularity of the original music video . As also discussed in Cha et al ’s work [ 5 ] , predicting the future popularity of content is important for service providers in terms of devising effective proxy caching strategies to accelerate service requests , which could ultimately lead to overall satisfaction of users of the service .
Due to the YouTube policy , it was not possible to crawl all the related UGC of the original music videos . Thereby our analysis is based on the popular music videos and the relevant UGC with the highest view counts . Although this could be a possible source of bias in the analysis results , we believe it is minimal because these top popular videos account for majority of the traffic on YouTube [ 5 ] . For future work , we plan to collect user ratings and comments along with the view counts as additional indicators of video popularity , and study the relationship between them and the growth of UGC uploads .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported in part by WCU ( World Class University ) program under the National Research Foundation of Korea and funded by the Ministry of Eduation , Science and Technology of Korea ( No.R31 30007 ) , and in part by the National Research Foundation of Korea grant funded by the Korean government ( MSIP ) ( No . NRF 2009 0081365 ) . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Participative web : User generated content . "http :
//wwwoecdorg/internet/ieconomy/38393115pdf"
[ 2 ] Y . M . Baek and I . Shin . Cultural distance and intercultural consumption of korean pop music on social media . In annual meeting of the International Communication Association , London , England , 2013 .
[ 3 ] Y . Borghol , S . Mitra , S . Ardon , N . Carlsson , D . Eager , and A . Mahanti . Characterizing and modelling popularity of user generated videos . Performance Evaluation , 68(11):1037–1055 , Nov . 2011 .
[ 4 ] A . Brodersen , S . Scellato , and M . Wattenhofer .
Youtube around the world : Geographic popularity of videos . In Proc . WWW , pages 241–250 , New York , NY , USA , 2012 . ACM .
[ 5 ] M . Cha , H . Kwak , P . Rodriguez , Y Y Ahn , and
S . Moon . I tube , you tube , everybody tubes : Analyzing the world ’s largest user generated content video system . In Proc . IMC , pages 1–14 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
[ 6 ] F . Figueiredo , F . Benevenuto , and J . M . Almeida . The tube over time : Characterizing popularity growth of youtube videos . In Proc . WSDM , pages 745–754 , New York , NY , USA , 2011 . ACM .
[ 7 ] C . W . Granger . Investigating causal relations by econometric models and cross spectral methods . Econometrica : Journal of the Econometric Society , pages 424–438 , 1969 .
[ 8 ] H . Pinto , J . M . Almeida , and M . A . Gon¸calves . Using early view patterns to predict the popularity of youtube videos . In Proc . WSDM , pages 365–374 , New York , NY , USA , 2013 . ACM .
[ 9 ] S . Siersdorfer , S . Chelaru , W . Nejdl , and J . San Pedro .
How useful are your comments ? : Analyzing and predicting youtube comments and comment ratings . In Proc . WWW , pages 891–900 , New York , NY , USA , 2010 . ACM .
[ 10 ] A . Susarla , J H Oh , and Y . Tan . Social networks and the diffusion of user generated content : Evidence from youtube . Information Systems Research , 23(1):23–41 , Mar . 2012 .
[ 11 ] G . Szabo and B . A . Huberman . Predicting the popularity of online content . Communications of the ACM , 53(8):80–88 , Aug . 2010 .
