Characterizing User Interest Using Heterogeneous Media
Jonghyun Han
Hyunju Lee
Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology
Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology
Gwangju , Republic of Korea jhan@gistackr
Gwangju , Republic of Korea hyunjulee@gistackr
ABSTRACT It is often hard to accurately estimate interests of social media users because their messages do not have additional information , such as a category . In this paper , we propose an approach that estimates user interest from social media to provide personalized services . Our approach employs heterogeneous media to map social media onto categories . To describe the categories , we propose a hybrid method that integrates a topic model with TF ICF for extracting both explicitly presented and implicitly latent features . Our evaluation result shows that it gives the highest performance , compared to other approaches . Thus , we expect that the proposed approach is helpful in advancing personalization of social media services .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; H52 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : User Interfaces—User centered design
Keywords User interest ; Social media ; Topic modeling
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the increasing popularity of social media services , such as Twitter and Facebook , users of these services obtain information from their friends’ brief text messages , images , and videos . They follow their acquaintances [ 2 ] or other users having similar interests with them . Users usually try to find friends who post information relevant to their interests . From the perspective of social media services , in order to provide them with user preferred information , it becomes important to understand their interests [ 3 ] . Thus , estimating interests of users is necessary for recommending user preferred content .
In this paper , we propose an approach that estimates interests of social media users to provide user preferred content . We express user interest in terms of probabilities that
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577346 a user has interest in categories . Since there is no information related to categories in social media , we employ traditional news media containing news articles classified into categories . Because these media are heterogeneous , it is necessary to take features of news media and social media into consideration . We extract features of the categories of news media by a hybrid method that exploits both explicitly presented term vectors and implicitly latent topic distributions . The method integrates user interests estimated by a TF ICF approach for explicit features and a topic modeling approach for latent features . Then , we find a user ’s interesting categories through comparing features of the news categories and features of personal social media . We verified our proposed approach by measuring a similarity between estimated user interest by our approach and manually labeled user interest by annotators . According to our evaluation result , it is able to estimate user interest that is similar to the labeled interest from social media .
2 . ESTIMATION OF USER INTEREST
In this paper , we propose a method to estimate user interest from personal social media . We express user interest in terms of categories’ probabilities , which show how much a user has interest in those categories . User interest is defined as [ c1 , c2 , · · · , cn]T , where ci represents the probability of the i th category and n is the number of categories . We take advantage of news media that contains news articles classified into categories , because there is no information related to categories in social media . We gather news articles from a news portal site that classifies the articles into the categories . News articles posted each day in each category are gathered and regarded as a document . We extract features of the categories from the news articles using two methods ; One is based on a bag of words approach and the other is based on a topic modeling approach .
We first extract explicitly presented features of categories . We define and use inverse category frequency ( ICF ) as a measure of whether a term is common or rare across all categories . Because some important terms , which frequently appear in all documents belonging to a specific category but rarely appear in other categories’ documents , have low IDF values , we use ICF instead of IDF . After accumulating term counts of documents in each category and removing rarely appeared terms , ICF of a term is computed by dividing the total number of categories by the number of categories containing the term , and taking the logarithm of that quotient . Finally , we compute the product of term frequency and ICF ( TF ICF ) for the significance of a term . The value of a term ’s TF ICF represents features of categories .
289 Table 1 : The most significant terms , extracted by TF ICF and topic modeling , to describe categories
Category
TF ICF based Approach
Significant Terms politics assemblyman , Geun hye Park , president economy society life world deal , stock , price , quarter , bank , increase prosecution , police , investigation , doctor brand , skin , color , health , exhibition Obama , demonstration , Israel , president
IT/science game , smartphone , Samsung , release entertainment actor , drama , member , appearance sports league , hit , run , football , team , homerun
To extract implicitly latent features of categories , we also propose a method that estimates user interest using a topic modeling approach . We use LDA [ 1 ] as a topic model to exploit latent topics of categories . Some terms , frequently presented in news articles – eg , ‘reporter’ or ‘announcement’ – make unimportant topics and inaccurate the order of terms’ significances in a topic . To avoid these problems , we generate documents for a topic modeling through using TF ICF instead of a bag of words model . We perform LDA to get topic distributions of the generated documents . Then , the topic distributions of documents , which belong to a same category , are integrated into topic distributions of the category . The topic distributions of a category c , θc , represent how much the category is related to topics .
We take advantage of social media text messages posted by a user to estimate his/her interest . Because social media does not contain category information , we compare the messages with the extracted features of categories obtained by the two proposed methods . First , we measure similarity between TF ICF values of a user ’s messages and TF ICF values of each category . The similarity represents a probability that a user has interest in each category . Second , we get a user ’s topic distribution θu from the messages using a topic model trained by news articles . We measure similarity between θu and topic distributions θc of each category . It represents user interest estimated by topic modeling . Finally , we integrate user interests estimated by TF ICF and topic modeling for considering both explicitly presented features and implicitly latent topics .
In order to verify the accuracy of interest estimated by our approach , we compared the estimated interest with interest manually labeled by two recruited human annotators . In this evaluation , we used 59 news categories , 4,764K news articles , and 22,723 messages posted by 28 Twitter users . Table 1 shows significant terms , which describe the categories , extracted by our approach . Figure 1 shows the result of our evaluation including comparisons with other approaches , such as bag of words , TF ICF , and LDA . As shown in Figure 1 , the proposed approach gave the highest performance , compared to the other approaches . The TF ICF based approach performed better than the topic modeling . When we used our hybrid approach ( empirically derived weight : 26 % topic model , 74 % TF ICF ) , we estimated much more accurate interests than the other approaches . According to our evaluation result , we can find out that our approach is able to estimate user interest using personal social media .
Topic Model based Approach
Significant Terms candidate , assemblyman , election , president North Korea , national security , launch finance , loan , bank , CEO , insurance , card union , strike , worker , labor , wage , income brand , skin , color , style , coffee , product
Topic #14 #23 #07 #24 #13 #04 Obama , president , premier , Israel , Iran , Egypt query , Apple , mobile , Samsung , Google #15 security , solution , data , system , mobile , Apple #05 #17 movie , art work , show , audience , writer , actor #22 #08 hit , homerun , Shin soo Choo , pitcher , hitter football , league , coach , player , second half
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3 y t i r a l i m S i
0.791fi
0.816fi
0.730fi
0.718fi
0.710fi
0.667fi
0.477fi
0.480fi
Bagfiof Words
TF(cid:882)ICF
Topic Model
Proposed Approach
Bagfiof Words
TF(cid:882)ICF
Topic Model
Proposed Approach
Annotatorfi1
Annotatorfi2
Approach
Figure 1 : The evaluation result showing the similarity between estimated interest by each approach and labeled interest by two annotators .
3 . DISCUSSION
In this paper , we proposed an approach that estimates user interest from social media . We employed traditional news media and utilized their category information . The approach extracts explicitly or implicitly presented features of categories through the TF ICF method and the topic modeling method . It measures similarities between a user ’s social media messages and news categories using the extracted features . According to our evaluation result , estimated interest by our approach is more similar with labeled interest by annotators than those of other approaches . Future works include developing methods that enhance estimation of user interest and consider other factors of social media , such as friendship . Also , it is necessary to develop a method , which avoids problems caused by heterogeneous data sources , such as abbreviations or nicknames .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . J . Mach . Learn . Res . , 3:993–1022 , Mar . 2003 .
[ 2 ] J . Han and H . Lee . Analyzing social media friendship for personalization . In Proceedings of the 2012 workshop on Data driven user behavioral modelling and mining from social media , pages 1–2 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 3 ] J . Han , X . Xie , and W . Woo . Context based microblog browsing for mobile users . Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments , 5(1):89–104 , 2013 .
290
