WebAlive : a New Paradigm for Bringing Things to Life on the Web
Rahul Parundekar
DnyLabs
Sunnyvale , CA , USA rahul@dnylabs.org
ABSTRACT In this poster , we propose WebAlive , a new paradigm that brings any Thing in the realm of reality to ‘life’ on the Web by creating an entangled virtual existence for it . For example , consider a physical object like the lamp on your desk . As a human , you are aware of its existence . You can see it , touch it , feel it , interact with it ( turn it on , off , etc . ) and investigate its attributes ( color , material , etc ) You can even alter or trash it . Now , imagine that the lamp had a virtual counterpart on the Web such that the two of them were entangled with each other . A software agent on the Web can now become aware of its existence , it can perform actions on it , learn about its attributes and even ( with the right capability ) alter it just how it was accessible to you . Referring to the most broadest definition of the word Thing , we can extend this entanglement concept beyond physical things like devices , objects , people , etc . to all intelligible things like entities , processes , concepts , ideas , etc . By doing so , we can open a new realm of possibilities where we could have digital access to the world around us . This poster provides an introduction to the paradigm and its realization .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : On line Information Services
Keywords Web Science ; Web Architecture ; Internet of Things ; Linked Data
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In philosophy , Ontology is the science of what is , the kind of structures of objects , properties , events , processes and relations in every area of reality[6 ] . Things in the realm of reality can be broadly classified into two ( i ) material things that you can touch , see and perceive with the senses ( like lamps , books , the planet Mars , etc . ) and ( ii ) the intelligible
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482576963 non materialistic things conceived with the mind ( eg the concept Zero , the entity of ‘The City of Sunnyvale’ , happiness , etc ) The world , for us , is made of these Things .
The core idea of the WebAlive paradigm is the entanglement of the Thing from the real world with a resource on the Web that would be its virtual counterpart . This has multiple implications . First , as described in the abstract , a software agent on the Web ( eg home automation agents , search engines , smartphone assistants , etc . ) can access any Thing just as how it is accessible to people . Second , as a consequence of having a software driven virtual counterpart , the operations possible on the Thing can can be extended to additional features like remote operations , talking to it via a speech interface , etc . , which can now be accessible to the user . Third , since the relationships between Things can be embodied in the links between their virtual counterparts , software agents can navigate the world around us .
2 . RELATED WORK
Entities in the current Web Architecture ( such as websites , web pages , etc . ) are phenomena created solely for the Web ( originating from a ‘resource retrieval’ paradigm [ 5 ] ) and do not reflect the nature of Things in the real world . The Internet of Things ( IoT)[1 ] is characterized by connections between electronic ‘Things’ ( such as embedded devices with RFID tags , sensors , actuators , mobile phones , etc . ) it lacks the broader vision of connecting things like people , processes etc . that are non electronic . Even the Internet of Everything[3 ] that aims at interconnecting People , Data , Things and Processes to encapsulate a larger scope ( like cities , etc . ) similarly limits the ‘Things’ it investigates to “ physical items like sensors , consumer devices , and enterprise assets ” . In contrast to these , the fields of Semantic Web and Linked Data[4 ] make it possible for a software agent to access a web of data about ‘Things’ can be physical ( eg places , species , etc . ) or abstract ( eg encyclopedic information ) . However , their use has largely been restricted to representing and interconnecting databases and ontologies ( computer science ) . Also , they do not define the exact relation between the virtual resource and their corresponding real world Things . As such , these existing paradigms lack a unified theory that can cover all Things from the real world , their relations and their representation on the Web . The WebAlive paradigm proposes to achieve this unification .
3 . THE WEBALIVE PARADIGM
Making a Thing WebAlive requires ( a ) the creation of a resource on the Web that is a virtual equivalent of the Thing ,
573 ( b ) capturing the state of the Thing into the software behind the resource , ( c ) providing an interface to the resource for exploring its attributes and interacting with it , and ( d ) providing an interface for defining & navigating relationships with other Things . Once entangled , interactions with the virtual Thing would bring about a change in the state of the Thing in the real world and vice versa . 3.1 Publishing a Thing on the Web
For the sake of brevity , we list a set of rules ( similar to the
Linked Data Principles1 ) to publish a Thing on the Web .
Rule 1 : Virtual Existence Create a Web resource ( ie a LiveNode ) for each Thing in the real world to be published . Rule 2 : Identification Use an HTTP URI to uniquely identify and locate the LiveNode .
Rule 3 : Interfaces Use standard HTTP methods ( and
HTTP Response Codes ) to interact with the LiveNode .
Rule 4 : Syntax Use standard structured data formats ( like N3[2 ] ) for the request / response and use the ContentType header to negotiate them . 3.2 Degrees of Entanglement
Each LiveNode should also specify its degree of entangle ment that reflects its levels of synchrony with the Thing .
Degree 1 Existence
2 Read only , with latency
Readweb
3 only , synchronized
4 Updatable , with latency
Updatweb
5 able , synchronized 6 Constant and always synchronized
Description There exists a LiveNode for a Thing ie the URI for the LiveNode can be looked up ( without a 404 error ) . The state of the Thing can be read from the LiveNode or it can be queried , but some information may not be in sync with the Thing and is possibly outdated . The state of the Thing can be read from the LiveNode or it can be queried , and its information is in sync ( barring network latency issues ) . An interaction with the LiveNode will update the state of the Thing . However , the update may not reflect immediately . An interaction with the LiveNode will update the state of the Thing simultaneously ( barring network latency issues ) This level is relevant for Things that do not change e.g the number zero , things in the Ontology of the publisher that do not change .
3.3 Interactions
Apart from supporting interactions possible in the real world ( eg operations for the home automation agent , transfer of ownership , etc. ) , the LiveNode can also capitalize its software nature as a means to provide additional interactions with the thing ( like remote operations , speech , etc . ) 3.4 Topology
The topology of the LiveNodes in the WebAlive paradigm closely follow the Ontology behind the Things that they represent . First , the link between them represents the relationship between the corresponding Things . As an example , Figure 1 shows a ( partial ) topology of the LiveNodes related to the lamp . Second , as a result of Ontological inheritance ,
1http://wwww3org/DesignIssues/LinkedDatahtml
Figure 1 : ( Partial ) Topology for the Lamp Example
WebAlive promotes natural code re use . Additionally , other things on the Web that are part of WebAlive paradigm ( eg web sites , search engines , smartphone assistants , etc . ) may also interact with them . 4 . VISION & APPLICATIONS
Numerous applications can be possible . For example , patients can be connected with Hospitals and Doctors ; who in turn can administer healthcare using medical devices and prescribe medicines ; which are connected with their makers who provide details on the usage and composition . People can be connected with books that are connected with the publishers and authors ; and have the ideas that they present connected with other authors’ ideas ; and can be used as coursework for schools or leisurely read at a coffee shop . The possibilities of such a unified platform are limitless . 5 . CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK
By entangling Things with LiveNodes , the WebAlive paradigm enables web agents to seamlessly interact with the world around us and , hence , be part of it . The real world is also augmented by the additional interactions that are possible virtually on WebAlive . The vision that these two capabilities help us realize is that of a Web augmented version of the world and creates a very natural and intuitive way of representing Things on the Web . The WebAlive paradigm allows for a unified platform for connecting Things with each other . As future work , we aim to explore the pragmatics of the interactions with the LiveNodes in detail . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Atzori , A . Iera , and G . Morabito . The internet of things : A survey . Computer Networks , 54(15):2787–2805 , 2010 .
[ 2 ] T . Berners Lee and D . Connolly . Notation3 ( n3 ) : A readable rdf syntax . W3C Team Submission ( January 2008 ) http://www . w3 . org/TeamSubmission , ( 3 ) , 1998 . [ 3 ] J . Bradley , J . Barbier , and D . Handler . Embracing the internet of everything to capture your share of $14.4 trillion , 2013 .
[ 4 ] T . Heath and C . Bizer . Linked data : Evolving the web into a global data space . Synthesis lectures on the semantic web : theory and technology , 1(1):1–136 , 2011 . [ 5 ] I . Jacobs and N . Walsh . Architecture of the world wide web . 2004 .
[ 6 ] B . Smith . Ontology . The Blackwell guide to the philosophy of computing and information , pages 153–166 , 2003 . home :  livenode  home:study_room  home:hasRoom  home:desk_1  …  room:hasLightning  home:lamp  _35  room:hasDesk  Home  Automa;on    Device  Smartphone  Agent  work :  livenode  …  User1  User2  LiveNode  Web ­‐Agent  Key :  posi3on:on  574
