Hierarchical Interest Graph from Tweets
Pavan Kapanipathi1 , Prateek Jain2 , Chitra Venkataramani2 , Amit Sheth1
1Knoesis Center . ( pavan , amit)@knoesis.org
2IBM TJ Watson Research Center.(jainpr , chitrav)@usibmcom
ABSTRACT Industry and researchers have identified numerous ways to monetize microblogs for personalization and recommendation . A common challenge across these different works is the identification of user interests . Although techniques have been developed to address this challenge , a flexible approach that spans multiple levels of granularity in user interests has not been forthcoming . In this work , we focus on exploiting hierarchical semantics of concepts to infer richer user interests expressed as a Hierarchical Interest Graph . To create such graphs , we utilize users’ tweets to first ground potential user interests to structured background knowledge such as Wikipedia Category Graph . We then adapt spreading activation theory to assign user interest score to each category in the hierarchy . The Hierarchical Interest Graph not only comprises of users’ explicitly mentioned interests determined from Twitter , but also their implicit interest categories inferred from the background knowledge source .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.0 [ Information Systems ] : General
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation
Keywords Hierarchical Interest Graph ; Personalization ; Social Semantic Web ; Twitter ; Wikipedia ; User Profiles
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Twitter has emerged as a prominent medium for people to communicate opinions and interests regarding events and services . Automatically determining these interests from user ’s topical discussions in tweets involve understanding the content of messages and finding topics and/or entities expressed in them1 . For example , preponderance posting of messages such as ” Important to note , in 1In this work , we consider users’ tweets as a representation of their current standoff , that Senate passed plan IS a compromise , accepting lower spending levels passed by House . ” indicate that the user is interested in US Government and American Politics .
Techniques such as Bag of Words and topic models do not perform so well on small , informal text as has been argued in [ 6 ] . Also , representing user interests as Bag of Concepts [ 3 , 5 ] has been experimented by citing the advantages of knowledge bases . However , exploiting these knowledge sources to generate user interests from tweets is an active area of interest . In this work , we present an approach that recognizes entities from tweets and exploits structured background knowledge to represent user interests as Hierarchical Interest Graph ( HIG ) . The structured background knowledge in our case is the Wikipedia category hierarchy . Wikipedia category hierarchy provides an ability to infer user interests which are not explicitly mentioned in tweets . Consequently , from the above example tweet , it is possible to infer that the user is interested in the categories “ US Government" , and “ American Politics" through hierarchical relationships from ” US Senate ” and ” US House of Representatives ” that are mentioned via their popular names in the tweet . The HIG generated using our approach extends the existing personalization and recommendation systems by providing flexibility in selecting content with varying level of abstractness . Considering the above example , the HIG includes specific interests such as ” US Senate ” and ” US House of Representatives ” and also provides flexibility to leverage the semantically inferred broader topics of interests such as “ US Government" , and “ American Politics" .
2 . APPROACH
The goal of our approach is to construct a Hierarchical Interest Graph ( HIG ) for a Twitter user . The two primary inputs for our system are : ( 1 ) Tweets of a user to determine the basic interests of the user , and ( 2 ) Hierarchical background knowledge that can be mapped with users’ basic interests to infer the HIG . We utilize the Wikipedia Hierarchy as the source of structured background knowledge . We opted for Wikipedia because of its vast domain coverage and timely updates .
The system performs the following steps as illustrated in Figure 1 : ( 1 ) User Interests Generator spots and scores the Wikipedia Entities2 from tweets of a user . ( 2 ) Interest Hierarchy Generator maps the scored Wikipedia Entities of interest to the Wikipedia Hierarchy to infer the HIG of the user .
User Interests Generator : This module determines the most specific interests of the user from his/her tweets . The process includes :
Copyright 20XX ACM X XXXXX XX X/XX/XX $1500 interests . The common issue is that a user might tweet only about a limited set of his interests . 2We differentiate between entities and categories , where entities are the most specific ( leaf ) nodes in the hierarchy and categories form for the rest of the higher levels ( abstract ) in the hierarchy .
Figure 1 : Architecture
( 1 ) recognizing Wikipedia entities from users’ tweets , and ( 2 ) scoring them to represent the extent of users’ interests for the entity . Entity recognition from tweets is performed using Zemanta web service3 . We opted for Zemanta due to its superior performance as evaluated in [ 2 ] and their web service ’s higher rate limit4 . The scores of the recognized entities is determined based on its normalized frequency using the following equation : nfi = f requency(ei)/f requency(emax ) , where emax is the entity that is mentioned most number of times by the user .
Interest Hierarchy Generator : The final step is to generate the HIG for a user , given the Wikipedia Hierarchy and the user ’s scored specific interests from User Interest Generator . In order to accomplish this task , ( 1 ) the specific interests are linked to their appropriate categories in the Wikipedia Hierarchy , and ( 2 ) an adaptation to Spreading Activation theory [ 1 ] is used spread the scores of the specific interests to the higher nodes in the hierarchy .
A naive spreading of scores ( with empirical decays ) up the Wikipedia hierarchy infers the HIG of the user . However , we discovered that it does not determine appropriate scores for categories in the hierarchy . Analyzing the scores determined by the naive approach , we found that the issues were an impact of the structure of the Wikipedia Hierarchy on the spreading activation . Specifically the uneven distribution of nodes at each levels in the hierarchy drastically increases the score up the hierarchy . Therefore , we adapted the spreading activation theory by introducing the parameters below to nullify the impact of the structure : Normalizers : In order to normalize the scores and hence reduce the propagation of scores up the hierarchy , we utilized the distribution of the nodes in the hierarchy . We experimented with the following two parameters :
Bell : Dividing the value based on the raw number of nodes in the child level .
Fi =
1 nodes(hi+1 )
( 1 ) where nodes(hi ) is the no . of nodes at hierarchical level of node i . Bell Log : Log value of the distribution , to reduce the impact of high number of categories .
F Li =
1 log10 nodes(hi+1 )
( 2 )
3 . EVALUATION
We experimented the system with three different spreading activation functions that are a combination of the parameters explained in Section 2 . ( 1 ) Bell ( 2 ) Bell Log . In order to evaluate the system ,
3http://developerzemantacom/ 4We thank Zemanta for their support for our research .
Figure 2 : Mean Average Precision of Activation Functions we performed a user study with 37 participants . The participants were provided with the top 50 categories of interests obtained by employing each of the above activation functions . The top 50 were determined based on the scores of each category . The participants were asked to mark Yes/No/Maybe reflecting the relevance of the interest category . The Maybe option was provided due to the abstractness of some categories such as Category:Technology , Category:Sports that might not completely be a user ’s interest . We then calculated the Mean Average Precision [ 4 ] for the results obtained from each activation function as shown in Figure 2 . We can then conclude that the system employed with Bell Log activation function performs better in scoring each category in the HIG .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this work , we have introduced a novel representation of user interests as a Hierarchical Interest Graph and an approach to generate HIG for a twitter user . The approach leverages tweets of users and introduces new parameters to adapt the spreading activation theory , in order to score the interest categories in a user ’s HIG . The scores represent the user ’s extent of interest which is demonstrated with an evaluation where the mean average precision for the top ten interest categories is close to 75 % .
Acknowledgment The first author was visiting IBM TJ Watson as a research intern when this work was performed . This work is also supported by NSF ( IIS 1111182 , 09/01/2011 08/31/2014 ) SoCS program under the grant titled “ Social Media Enhanced Organizational Sensemaking in Emergency Response" .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . M . Collins and E . F . Loftus . A spreading activation theory of semantic processing . Psychological review , 1975 .
[ 2 ] L . Derczynski , D . Maynard , N . Aswani , and K . Bontcheva . Microblog genre noise and impact on semantic annotation accuracy . HT ’13 .
[ 3 ] P . Kapanipathi , F . Orlandi , A . P . Sheth , and A . Passant .
Personalized filtering of the twitter stream . In SPIM Workshop at ISWC 2011 .
[ 4 ] C . D . Manning , P . Raghavan , and H . Schütze . Introduction to
Information Retrieval . Cambridge University Press , 2008 .
[ 5 ] F . Orlandi , J . Breslin , and A . Passant . Aggregated , interoperable and multi domain user profiles for the social web . I SEMANTICS ’12 .
[ 6 ] B . Sriram , D . Fuhry , E . Demir , H . Ferhatosmanoglu , and
M . Demirbas . Short text classification in twitter to improve information filtering . SIGIR ’10 .
