Trends of News Diffusion in Social Media based on Crowd Phenomena
Minkyoung Kim
Science , The Australian
National University
David Newth
Industrial Research
Organisation
Peter Christen
Science , The Australian
National University
Research School of Computer
Commonwealth Scientific and
Research School of Computer
Canberra ACT 0200 , Australia minkyoungkim@anueduau
Canberra ACT 2600 , Australia davidnewth@csiroau
Canberra ACT 0200 , Australia peterchristen@anueduau
ABSTRACT Information spreads across social media , bringing heterogeneous social networks interconnected and diffusion patterns varied in different topics of information . Studying such cross population diffusion in various context helps us understand trends of information diffusion in a more accurate and consistent way . In this study , we focus on realworld news diffusion across online social systems such as mainstream news ( News ) , social networking sites ( SNS ) , and blogs ( Blog ) , and we analyze behavioral patterns of the systems in terms of activity , reactivity , and heterogeneity . We found that News is the most active , SNS is the most reactive , and Blog is the most persistent , which governs time evolving heterogeneity of these systems . Finally , we interpret the discovered crowd phenomena from various angles using our previous model free and model driven approaches , showing that the strength and directionality of influence reflect the behavioral patterns of the systems in news diffusion . Categories and Subject Descriptors H11 [ Systems and Information Theory ] : Information theory ; H34 [ Systems and Software ] : Information networks ; J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Sociology Keywords crowd phenomena ; news diffusion ; social media
1 .
INTRODUCTION
A wide range of information has become increasingly accessible and shared across heterogeneous online social networks , which enables these networks to be more interconnected than ever before [ 9 , 10 ] . Such emergent phenomena have been investigated with a wide spectrum of diffusion spaces from a single social networking platform such as Twitter [ 13 , 20 , 25 ] to n Sphere , consisting of two or more different kinds of social networks , such as blogosphere [ 16 ] , blogosphere to news [ 5 , 6 , 15 ] , blogosphere to YouTube [ 3 ] , and blogosphere SNS news [ 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 ] . Accordingly , the underlying diffusion mechanisms have been studied by modeling diffusion processes at a micro ( individual ) or macro ( population ) level . Such models are all based on the assump
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579325 tions of social structures from sampled snapshots of current social networks [ 3 , 16 ] , from site specific actions ( eg , hashtag , mention , and retweet in Twitter ) [ 20 , 25 ] , or from realworld network properties ( eg , a power law degree distribution ) [ 8 , 9 , 10 , 17 ] . However , studies on diffusion have more focused on a single social platform alone than combined social media of different types .
To define real world network structures is challenging in modeling diffusion , particularly for interconnected heterogeneous social networks . Regarding this issue , our previous studies [ 8 , 10 ] modeled macro level diffusion across different populations , requiring no detailed local structures . However , this model was based on the assumption of a power law degree distribution and thus still needs to estimate the value of the scaling exponent for the power law tail . Accordingly , our recent study [ 11 ] estimated macro level information pathways with a model free approach by using transfer entropy since it is independent of any specific assumptions on the interactions between individuals , providing benefits of studying dynamics of complex systems . This present study aims at analyzing crowd phenomena in news diffusion in terms of activity , reactivity , and heterogeneity , and then interpreting the discovered patterns with our model free [ 11 ] and modeldriven [ 8 , 9 , 10 ] approaches , which enables us to understand news diffusion trends in social media from diverse dimensions in a more consistent and systematic way .
We investigate the Spinn3r dataset from our previous study [ 10 ] . This dataset contains daily news adopters from different types of online social systems , such as mainstream news ( News ) , social networking sites ( SNS ) , and blogs ( Blog ) , during a month in early 2011 . Identified news topics are in common across the systems and cover eight representative categories of conventional news outlets ( arts , culture , disasters , economy , politics , science , sports , and technology ) , which enables us to quantify and understand cross population diffusion in a more principled way . With this dataset , we find that for real world news topics , the most active 20 % of SNS and Blog users generate 32 % and 64 % of documents , respectively , while the same percentage of News sites create over 90 % of articles ( the ratio of document percentage generated by each 20 % is about 1 : 2 : 3 in that order ) . Also , the highly active top 1 % of News sites are tightly connected to each other through hyperlinks in their main articles , which likely enhances the opportunity to be exposed to other social systems such as SNS and Blog . Regarding reactivity , SNS users are the most prompt to spread news even faster than News sites , while Blog users are the least reactive but the
753 most persistent in spreading old news . This result is consistent with the findings that there are more significant cases of incoming transfer entropy ( T E ) in SNS ( T Eany→SN S ) and News ( T Eany→N ews ) than Blog ( T Eany→Blog ) , and that the longer history of news adoption in News and SNS has more effects on diffusion in Blog . About heterogeneity , higher or lower heterogeneity of populations is likely attributed to balanced or unbalanced influence among social systems . Such macro level cross population diffusion from diverse angles , to the best of our knowledge , are seen for the first time .
2 . RELATED WORK
Identifying trending topics is important since diffusion patterns have significant variations by the context of information [ 3 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 20 , 25 ] . There have been attempts to identify specific events such as Twitter only trends [ 2 , 13 ] or approximated events by text clustering [ 7 ] . However , these recognized trending topics can be site specific . For instance , the authors of [ 13 ] found that only 3.6 % of Twitter ’s trending topics exist in hot search keywords from Google . This paper studies cross population news diffusion , and thus commonly interested topics are important to truly understand diffusion trends across different social systems . In this context , we target news topics from the Wikipedia Current Events [ 1 ] as a noteworthy news registry .
Extensive research on information theoretic measures has been conducted in diverse areas including computer science [ 4 , 27 , 28 , 29 ] , neuroscience [ 21 , 22 , 24 ] , and economics [ 14 , 18 , 19 ] . When it comes to social media , the predictability of user behavioral patterns with a model free approach has been common interests for predicting future interactions at individual and group levels [ 29 ] , for estimating directed information pathways between Twitter users without followerfollowee relationships [ 27 , 28 ] , and for classifying Twitter user behaviors [ 4 ] . These studies are all from the aspects of individuals or groups belonging to a single social platform alone . However , heterogeneous social networks are interconnected across a variety of social platforms ( eg , CNN , BBC , Facebook , Twitter , WordPress , and Tumblr ) and they can be aggregated into different types of online social systems such as News , SNS , and Blog . In this context , our recent study [ 11 ] estimated macro level information transfer using transfer entropy , and we found that the strength and directionality of information flow among these systems vary in different context of information . Based on outcomes mainly from this model free approach [ 11 ] as well as from our previous model driven approaches [ 8 , 9 , 10 ] , this present study attempts to interpret crowd phenomena in real world news diffusion from various angles .
3 . CROWD PHENOMENA
In this section , we analyze behavioral patterns of different online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) in terms of activity , reactivity , and time evolving heterogeneity . 3.1 Data Description
We use the Spinn3r dataset from our previous study [ 10 ] . This dataset consists of daily cumulative adopters in each News , SNS and Blog systems for 63 real world news topics , which have driven the largest diffusion ( at least 50 users in each system for robust statistics ) , during a month in early 2011 . We use document hyperlinks in the main text to gen
Figure 1 : Activity levels of online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) in news diffusion . Solid lines ( All ) indicate all documents regardless of topics , while dashed lines ( NR : news related ) represent documents on identified news topics from the Wikipedia Current Events [ 1 ] . Arrows exhibit changing directions of activity levels from All to NR documents . erate accurate citation networks , and accordingly adopters are ones who explicitly cite to original documents through hyperlinks . We referred to the Wikipedia Current Events [ 1 ] to identify non site specific but commonly interested news topics across these systems . Also , for identifying users who subscribe to the SNS or Blog system , we targeted 10 popular social platforms ( 5 for each ) as they provided regular patterns of user identity in their web document addresses . Note that identifying borderline users , who have more than one account in different social platforms , is beyond the scope of this study . Regarding main stream news , we chose 9K News sites as they constitute the largest strongly connected news network through hyperlinks in their articles , and each News site is considered as one super user ( see [ 10 , 12 ] for details ) . For the rest of the paper , we use terms user or individual for indicating a principal agent in each system . 3.2 Activity
We define activity as the quantity of publication produced by an individual , ie frequency of an individual ’s web posting . We investigate the level of activity for each social system and analyze how it varies in different news categories . We first examine the Pareto principle ( the 80 20 rule ) [ 23 ] in news diffusion , as shown in Figure 1 . We rank users for each social system according to their activity levels and normalize the ranks to lie between 0 and 100 . Thus , the x axis indicates the percentage of users from the most active to the least active , while the y axis represents the complementary cumulative percentage of documents created by all but x % of users ( 100 x% ) . For instance , the blue solid line shows that the most active 20 % of Blog users published about 72 % of all blog documents , which means that the Pareto principle in general applies to the activity of blogging arbitrary topics . This is consistent with the result from [ 3 ] in which the most active 20 % of blogs account for 70 % of all blog posts in 15 blog domains . However , when it comes to real world news topics ( blue dashed line ) , the same percentage of Blog users produced only 64 % of news related documents , decreased by 8 % ( from 72 % to 64% ) . That is , the Pareto principle is not well applicable to the activity of blogging real world news topics . Meanwhile , the top 20 % of SNS users generate 64 % of all micro blogs ( red solid line ) , while the most active
020406080100020406080100Activity Rank ( %)Docs ( % ) with >= x % SNS ( All)SNS ( NR)Blog ( All)Blog ( NR)News ( All)News ( NR)754 Table 1 : The most cited top 5 news sites across online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) .
Rank
1 2 3 4 5
Cited by News Sites News sites guardiancouk huffingtonpost.com bbccouk nytimes.com telegraphcouk
#Sites 1,288 1,119 987 978 924
Cited by SNS Users
News sites huffingtonpost.com bbccouk yahoo.com msn.com guardiancouk
#Users 3,719 3,404 3,071 2,289 2,254
Cited by Blog Users News sites guardiancouk bbccouk huffingtonpost.com telegraphcouk nytimes.com
#Users 2,988 2,432 2,164 1,762 1,555
( a ) News
( b ) SNS
( c ) Blog
Figure 2 : Activity levels of online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) for eight different news categories : Arts , Culture , Disasters , Economy , Politics , Science , Sports , and Technology . In each graph , only two distribution plots , positioning at the top and bottom , are shown for clarity . most the same number of posts on science news . On the other hand , Blog users’ activity level grows the most when blogging technology topics and the least for arts topics .
The News system shows the most distinct activity level among these systems . In more detail , the most active 5 % of news sites generate over 80 % of all documents during a month . Among the top 1 % , we found a very tightly connected news media network where every news site receives citations from at least nine other news sites in the network , as shown in Figure 3 . These closely connected news sites also include the most cited top 5 news sites across all online social systems in Table 1 . As the table shows , popular news sites are very similar across the systems . The most cited top 10 news sites belong to 25 Core ( in degree ) and 74 Core ( degree ) , which means that every news site in a connected network receives citations from at least 25 other news sites , and also interacts with 74 other news sites . It can be interpreted that such strong connectivity of news media enables them to be more frequently exposed and connected to other online social systems compared to isolated news media . 3.3 Reactivity
We define reactivity as an individual ’s response time to new information since it was created . Accordingly , we quantify the degree of reactivity with time difference of posting between a reference and a citing document through creating an explicit hyperlink in the main text . We also examine the level of reactivity for each social system and analyze how it varies in different news categories , as in the case of activity . Figure 4 shows the cumulative distribution function ( CDF ) of time lags during 30 days corresponding to our dataset period . In order to reduce the time zone effects , we use one day resolution . Zero on the x axis indicates that a reference document is cited on the day of its publication . As the figure shows , in general , SNS users are the most responsive to exposed information even faster than News sites , while Blog users are the least reactive . It is often reported that some
Figure 3 : News media network . Every node in the network belongs to the most active top 1 % of all news sites , and it is cited by at least nine other news sites in the network , ie 9 Core ( in degree ) .
20 % of News sites create over 90 % of all articles ( green solid line ) . Regarding real world news topics , the activity level decreases again by 32 % for SNS users ( red dashed line and upward arrow ) , but it increases by 4 % for News sites ( green dashed line and downward arrow ) . Consequently , the ratio of NR document percentages produced by the most active 20 % of individuals from each SNS , Blog , and News systems is about 1 : 2 : 3 ( 32 % : 64 % : 90% ) . This means activity depends on online social systems , and thus the Pareto principle is not applied uniformly across all the systems .
In addition , different news categories lead to different levels of activity across these systems , as shown in Figure 2 . The activity level of active News sites is the highest for the disasters category and the lowest for the arts category . In SNS , the activity level increases the most when posting sports topics and the least for science topics whose linear plot exhibits that active and non active users produce al
020406080100020406080100Activity Rank ( %)Docs ( % ) with >= x % ArtsDisasters020406080100020406080100Activity Rank ( %)Docs ( % ) with >= x % ScienceSports020406080100020406080100Activity Rank ( %)Docs ( % ) with >= x % ArtsTechnologyabcnewsgocombbccoukbusinessinsidercombusinessweekcomcbsnewscomcnncomdailymailcoukguardiancoukhuffingtonpostcomlatimescommiamiheraldcommsncomnytimescomprnewswirecomreuterscomsmhcomaustartribunecomtelegraphcouktimecomwashingtonpostcomwikipediaorgwsjcomyahoocomPajek755 ( a ) News
( b ) SNS
( c ) Blog
Figure 5 : Reactivity levels of online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) for eight different news categories : Arts , Culture , Disasters , Economy , Politics , Science , Sports , and Technology . In each graph , only two distribution plots , positioning at the top and bottom , are shown for clarity . users are the least responsive to the culture category , but they are most prompt to the sports and technology categories , respectively . The science and culture categories are not time sensitive topics compared with other topics such as natural disasters , sports games , and new product releases . Thus , they tend to drive less responsive but more persistent behavior than the other topics . Regarding persistence , SNS users exhibit the least persistent behavior of referring to old news since it is likely forgotten only after two days . On the other hand , Blog users still have a more than even chance to spread news after two days , while the reactivity level of News sites lies between SNS and Blog .
In terms of activity and reactivity , SNS and Blog users tend to be less active but more reactive in posting news content . Also , the most active news category in each system corresponds to the most reactive news category . 3.4 Heterogeneity
We examined that noteworthy real world news spreads across online social systems , not limited to a specific media type , leading to common and distinctive behavioral patterns among the systems . Then , how heterogeneous are the participants in news diffusion ? Does the degree of heterogeneity change as time evolves ? If it changes , how different is it for various news categories ? In order to answer these questions , we use relative entropy for measuring the dispersion of heterogeneous populations compared with their uniform distribution as conducted in our previous study with a different dataset [ 8 ] . We quantify the time evolving heterogeneity of populations participating in information diffusion as :
− m i=1
J(t ) =
H(t ) Hmax
=
1
Hmax pi(t ) log2(pi(t ) )
,
( 1 ) where the entropy H(t ) is a measure for quantifying the dispersion of different types of populations at time t , and pi(t ) is the proportion of cumulative population of type i among m types at time t . When the proportions are uniformly distributed , the heterogeneity ( relative entropy ) is the highest ( Hmax=log2m ) , while it is the lowest ( Hmin=0 ) when only one population exists .
In our case , we consider SNS and Blog users as heterogeneous populations participating in news diffusion . As Figure 6 shows , the heterogeneity ( J ) generally increases as time evolves , showing that populations tend to be more uniformly distributed , and thus it is more uncertain which population will be dominant in the diffusion . From the beginning , the heterogeneity rapidly increases due to small number of users
Figure 4 : Reactivity levels of online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) . All and NR denote the same as in Figure 1 . The same notation is used for All and NR as in Figure 1 . breaking news first spreads through SNS , and thus this distribution plot can be one of supportive clues showing prompt behavior of SNS users . These behavioral patterns can be also found in other studies in a separated way : ( 1 ) News vs Blog and ( 2 ) News vs SNS . For instance , news sites have a tendency to spread news much faster than blogs [ 5 ] , and some news spreads on Twitter before the announcement of main stream news agencies such as CNN [ 13 ] . In Figure 4 , the cumulative diffusion rates of NR documents ( dashed lines ) increase across all media types ( upward arrows ) , compared with All documents ( solid lines ) . That is , users are more reactive to real world news than other arbitrary topics . On the day of publication of NR documents , over 50 % of citations to the documents are found in SNS , while 30 % in both Blog and News . Also , within five days at least 70 % of all citations are generated across the systems for all different news categories . That is , hyperlinks are mostly created within a week since an original document is published . Thus , one week is a meaningful period for tracking news cascades regardless of types of online social systems and topics of news . Note that such reaction is one of ways to spread information in social media , not diffusion itself . In terms of persistence of adoption or citations to old documents , Blog users show the most lasting spreading behavior in contrast to SNS users .
Reactivity also exhibits variations in different news categories . To be more specific , Figure 5 shows the upper and lower bound time lag distributions of different news categories for each system . As the figure shows , News sites are the most and the least reactive to the disasters and science categories , respectively . In common , SNS and Blog
012345670020406081Time Lag ( Day)Prob . with >= x days ScienceDisasters012345670020406081Time Lag ( Day)Prob . with >= x days CultureSports012345670020406081Time Lag ( Day)Prob . with >= x days CultureTechnology051015202530020406081Time Lag ( Day)CDF SNS ( All)SNS ( NR)Blog ( All)Blog ( NR)News ( All)News ( NR)756 Figure 6 : Time evolving heterogeneity ( relative entropy ) of populations from the SNS and Blog systems participating in news diffusion during a onemonth period . News categories are color coded . and fast responses of early adopters in each system . However , the heterogeneity decreases soon due to different levels of reactivity between SNS and Blog users . That is , SNS users tend to response to new information much earlier than Blog users , which may bring in larger number of SNS users than Blog and consequently lead to the disproportionate distribution of the populations for one to three days .
The level of heterogeneity varies in different news categories . The disasters , economy , and politics categories lead to higher heterogeneity ( more even distribution of populations ) , while the arts , culture , science , and technology categories lead to lower heterogeneity ( relatively disproportionate distribution ) . Also , higher heterogeneity comes up with larger number of adopters in diffusion , which reconfirms that large diffusion is attributed to collective behavior of heterogeneous populations , not limited to a single social platform alone [ 8 , 9 , 10 ] . Thus , analyzing behavioral patterns in crosspopulation diffusion would be a step towards a more accurate and consistent understanding of real world diffusion .
4 .
INFORMATION PATHWAYS BETWEEN ONLINE SOCIAL SYSTEMS
In this section , we analyze the discovered crowd phenomena in news diffusion from various angles using our previous model free [ 11 ] and model driven [ 8 , 9 , 10 ] approaches so that we can understand cross population diffusion in a more consistent and principled way . 4.1 Macro Level Information Transfer
From our recent study [ 11 ] , we estimated macro level transfer entropy by defining an online social system as a stochastic process , which is a collection of time series adopting trends ( eg , a chronological sequence of states such as decrease , transition , and increase ) , influencing other social systems .
When considering two discrete time random processes , X and Y , the transfer entropy ( TE ) from the process Y to X is defined as the conditional mutual information [ 26 ] : T EY →X = I(Xt+1 ; Yt|Xt )
= p(xt+1 , x(k ) t
, y(l ) t ) log p(xt+1|x(k ) t p(xt+1|x(k ) t
, y(l ) t ) )
,
( 2 ) where xt and yt represent the states of X and Y at time t , respectively , and k and l denote the Markov orders for the previous states of X and Y . Thus , Equation ( 2 ) describes
Figure 7 : Number of significant cases of transfer entropy of online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) when k=l=1 in Equation ( 2 ) . T Eout/T Ein denotes outgoing/incoming transfer entropy . the predictability ( reduction of uncertainty ) of the state xt+1 of the process X , given the k previous states , by introducing the l previous states of the process Y , which provides the strength and directionality of information flow . 4.2 Reflections of Crowd Phenomena
Figure 7 shows significant cases of transfer entropy with the Markov order set to be one day ( k=l=1 ) . The distribution of significant cases of incoming transfer entropy ( T Ein ) reflects the reactivity levels of online social systems . For instance , SNS and News have more significant cases of incoming transfer entropy than Blog in that order , which means that they are more influenced by the one day recent past of the other social systems than Blog . This result is consistent with the findings in the previous section that SNS and News are more reactive than Blog in that order , and over 60 % of news citations in SNS and News are generated only after one day during a one month period of observation .
In terms of the directionality of information flow , SNS is more incoming , but Blog is more outgoing , while News exhibits both ways in Figure 7 . This can be interpreted that News introduces new information as well as spreads exposed information in a balanced way ( diligent creator and diligent adopter ) , while SNS rather propagates than introduces information ( lazy creator but diligent adopter ) , and Blog has a tendency the other way around ( diligent creator but lazy adopter ) . Thus , even the same level of activity can have very different effects on diffusion , depending on a document ’s propensity to introduce or spread information . Regarding the Markov order ( the length of k and l ) , longer activity sequences of online social systems tend to influence other social systems more , from the fact that the number of significant cases are largest at k=l=5 when varying k ( =l ) from 1 to 5 [ 11 ] . In particular , when comparing two cases between k=l=1 and k=l=5 , Blog shows the biggest change in the ratio of significant cases , unlike the ignorable changes for News and SNS . That is , longer histories of adoption trends in News and SNS have a stronger effect on diffusion in Blog than the others . Concerning diffusion rate , we estimated cumulative adopter proportions for each system from our previous model driven approach [ 9 , 10 ] , showing more rapid spreading trends in SNS and News than Blog during onemonth diffusion . These are consistent with the prompt behavior of SNS and News and the persistent behavior of Blog . From our previous model free [ 11 ] and model driven approaches [ 8 ] , the strength and directionality of influence between systems vary in different news categories . In [ 11 ] , the
5101520253001020304050607DayRelative Entropy ( J ) ArtsCultureDisasterEconomyPoliticsSportsTechnologyScienceNewsSNSBlog050100Freq TEoutTEin757 culture and technology categories show an unbalanced distribution of incoming and outgoing transfer entropy , while the politics category exhibits relatively balanced distribution . In [ 8 ] , the distribution of estimated influence between systems is more balanced for the politics and disasters categories and less balanced for the art and sports categories . These are consistent with the heterogeneity in Figure 6 , showing higher relative entropy for the economy , disasters , and politics categories and lower relative entropy for the arts , culture , science , sports , and technology categories after a month . These can all be interpreted that balanced interactions between populations more likely lead to higher heterogeneity ( more evenly distributed populations ) .
5 . CONCLUSION
We analyzed crowd phenomena across online social systems ( News , SNS , and Blog ) in terms of activity , reactivity , and heterogeneity , and interpreted the discovered behavioral patterns of the systems from various angles based on our previous model free and model driven approaches . Main trends of news diffusion in social media are summarized as below . • News is the most active , SNS is the most reactive , and
Blog is the most persistent .
• SNS and Blog users are less active but more reactive for real world news than other arbitrary topics .
• Regarding activity , the Pareto principle is not applied uniformly across different online social systems .
• Active news media are tightly connected , enhancing the opportunity to be exposed to other social systems . • One week is a meaningful period for tracking news cas cades regardless of system types and news topics .
• The most active news category in each system corre sponds to the most reactive news category .
• Larger diffusion exhibits higher heterogeneity . • News is a diligent creator and diligent adopter , SNS is a lazy creator and diligent adopter , and Blog is a diligent creator and lazy adopter .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Wikipedia Current Events in January , 2011 . http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/January_2011 [ 2 ] H . Becker , M . Naaman , and L . Gravano . Beyond trending topics : Real world event identification on twitter . In ICWSM , Barcelona , Spain , 2011 .
[ 3 ] M . Cha , J . P´erez , and H . Haddadi . Flash floods and ripples : The spread of media content through the blogosphere . In ICWSM , San Jose , USA , 2009 .
[ 4 ] R . Ghosh , T . Surachawala , and K . Lerman .
Entropy based classification of’retweeting’activity on twitter . arXiv preprint arXiv:1106.0346 , 2011 .
[ 5 ] M . Gomez Rodriguez , J . Leskovec , and A . Krause .
Inferring networks of diffusion and influence . In KDD , pages 1019–1028 , Washington , DC , 2010 . ACM .
[ 6 ] M . Gomez Rodriguez , J . Leskovec , and B . Sch¨olkopf .
Structure and dynamics of information pathways in online media . In WSDM , Rome , Italy , 2013 . ACM .
[ 7 ] V . Ha Thuc , Y . Mejova , C . Harris , and P . Srinivasan .
Event intensity tracking in weblog collections . In ICWSM , San Jose , USA , 2009 .
[ 8 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling direct and indirect influence across heterogeneous social networks . In SIGKDD SNA Workshop . ACM , 2013 .
[ 9 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling dynamics of diffusion across heterogeneous social networks . Entropy , 15(10):4215–4242 , 2013 .
[ 10 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Modeling dynamics of meta populations with a probabilistic approach . In CIKM , San Francisco , USA , 2013 . ACM .
[ 11 ] M . Kim , D . Newth , and P . Christen . Macro level information transfer across social networks . In WWW Companion , Seoul , Korea , 2014 .
[ 12 ] M . Kim , L . Xie , and P . Christen . Event diffusion patterns in social media . In ICWSM , Dublin , 2012 .
[ 13 ] H . Kwak , C . Lee , H . Park , and S . Moon . What is twitter , a social network or a news media ? In WWW , Raleigh , USA , 2010 .
[ 14 ] O . Kwon and J S Yang . Information flow between composite stock index and individual stocks . Physica A : Stat . Mech . Appl . , 387(12):2851–2856 , 2008 .
[ 15 ] J . Leskovec , L . Backstrom , and J . Kleinberg .
Meme tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle . In KDD , Paris , France , 2009 . ACM .
[ 16 ] J . Leskovec , M . McGlohon , C . Faloutsos , N . Glance , and M . Hurst . Cascading behavior in large blog graphs . In SDM , Minneapolis , USA , 2007 .
[ 17 ] M . Luu , E . Lim , T . Hoang , and F . Chua . Modeling diffusion in social networks using network properties . In ICWSM , Dublin , Ireland , 2012 .
[ 18 ] E . Maasoumi and J . Racine . Entropy and predictability of stock market returns . Journal of Econometrics , 107(1):291–312 , 2002 .
[ 19 ] R . Marschinski and H . Kantz . Analysing the information flow between financial time series . EPJ B Cond . Matter & Complex Sys . , 30(2):275–281 , 2002 .
[ 20 ] S . Myers , C . Zhu , and J . Leskovec . Information diffusion and external influence in networks . In KDD , Beijing , China , 2012 . ACM .
[ 21 ] L . Paninski . Estimation of entropy and mutual information . Neural Computation , 15(6 ) , 2003 .
[ 22 ] S . Panzeri , R . Senatore , M . A . Montemurro , and R . S . Petersen . Correcting for the sampling bias problem in spike train information measures . Journal of Neurophysiology , 98(3):1064–1072 , 2007 .
[ 23 ] V . Pareto . Cours d’Economie Politique . F . Rouge ,
Droz , Geneva , 1896 .
[ 24 ] R . Q . Quiroga and S . Panzeri . Extracting information from neuronal populations . Nature Reviews Neuroscience , 10(3):173–185 , 2009 .
[ 25 ] D . Romero , B . Meeder , and J . Kleinberg . Differences in the mechanics of information diffusion across topics . In WWW , Hyderabad , India , 2011 . ACM .
[ 26 ] T . Schreiber . Measuring information transfer . Physical
Review Letter , 85(2):461–464 , 2000 .
[ 27 ] G . Ver Steeg and A . Galstyan . Information transfer in social media . In WWW , Lyon , 2012 . ACM .
[ 28 ] G . Ver Steeg and A . Galstyan . Information theoretic measures of influence based on content dynamics . In WSDM , Rome , Italy , 2013 . ACM .
[ 29 ] C . Wang and B . A . Huberman . How random are online social interactions ? Scientific Reports , 2 , 2012 .
758
