Investigating Socio cultural Behavior of Users Reflected in
Different Social Channels on K pop
Yonghwan Kim , Dahee Lee , Jung Eun Hahm , Namgi Han , Min Song
Department of Library and Information Science , Yonsei University
Seoul , South Korea
{kimyonghwan , leedahee , jungeunhahm , hngin , minsong}@yonseiackr
ABSTRACT
In this paper we investigated the socio cultural behavior of users reflected in the two different social media channels , YouTube and Twitter . We conducted the comparative analysis of the networks generated from the two channels . The relationship we set for each network is the relatedness on YouTube and the co links on Twitter . From the results , we revealed that the social media influenced the distinct socio cultural behaviors of their users . Specifically , Twitter network better the actual consumption of contents in the field of the k pop culture than YouTube . From this study , we contributed to offer a novel approach for exploring the socio cultural behavior of users on the social media . showed
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services ; J.4 [ Arts and Humanities ] : Performing arts
General Terms
Measurement , Experimentation
Keywords
Socio cultural behavior ; YouTube related video network ; Twitter co link video network ; network analysis ; YouTube ; Twitter
1 . INTRODUCTION
As the number of users increases and related technology has advanced , social media become strongly connected to the daily lives of people . Several researchers have concentrated on studying the impact of collaborative information discovery and sharing which social media promote [ 1 ] . For example , Russo and Peacock pointed out that social media enabled people to have interactive cultural experiences [ 2 ] . Similarly , Potts et al . found that the consumption of cultural goods is greatly influenced by social media [ 3 ] . Based on their studies , we could assume that social media would reflect the socio cultural behavior of people .
This study is to investigate the socio cultural behavior of users reflected in two popular social media , YouTube and Twitter . Several studies revealed that those two function differently which results in the creation of distinct User Generated Contents ( UGCs ) [ 4][5 ] , however , those studies do not focus on sociocultural behaviors of users . Particularly , we limited our study to
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7 11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577324 specific cultural product , k pop related to videos . We conducted the comparative analysis of the video networks generated from the two different channels . We did different approach that no studies tried , and suggest that socio cultural behavior of users on the two social media significantly differ . Specific methods are described in the following section .
2 . METHODOLOGY
Figure 1 represents the general overview of the methodology used in this study .
Figure 1 : The overview of the methodology
We used k pop related queries such as k pop , kpop , korean pop , SM Entertainment , YG Entertainment , JYP Entertainment in conducting searches on YouTube . The last three queries indicate three representative k pop entertainment companies which many of representative k pop singers belong to . Those three queries were separately selected to cover k pop related videos which didn’t have any specific metadata that mentioned the word “ kpop ” . After the search was processed , we collected 3,004 video data in YouTube database , and 45 of 3,004 videos were then removed as they were found to be private or deleted .
For Twitter data , we collected tweets which contained any URL of these 2,959 seed videos along with Twitter account names by web crawling . We ended up collecting only 834 among 2,959 seed videos , and these are the base for constructing the Twitter co link network . We then collected all the videos mentioned by those Twitter accounts . Finally , co link pairs of videos were created if one of them was in the seed video list and both of them were mentioned by the same Twitter account .
Similarly , we gained all related videos of 834 seed videos suggested by YouTube using YouTube Data Application Programming Interface ( API ) . We then sorted out the videos only to 2,959 seed videos previously retrieved with k pop related search terms . Figure 2 describes how we create pairs for each network .
325 concert , dance , interview , and audition while most of those appeared in the YouTube network are merely music videos .
4 . DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
We have observed the socio cultural behavior reflected in two social media channels , YouTube and Twitter . The results drawn from Twitter were quite distinct from those from YouTube . To summarize the results , the videos linked by Twitter users are not related to popularity index such as view counts ; they are rather influenced by diverse users , and varied categories . It is important to note that the core videos with high centrality scores in the Twitter network are not limited to music contents but other cultural contents in general . This can be associated with showing the actual trend of the cultural consumption on k pop . The consumption of the k pop culture is not only limited to music itself but cultures regarding k pop in general . The revenue structure of entertainment companies in Korea supports this phenomenon . According to the study Korea Creative Contents Agency did , most of JYP Entertainment company ’s profits were generated by royalty fee ( 85.9 % ) by branding its singers , while album sales only accounted for 0.4 % in the first quarter of the year 2013 [ 7 ] . In this regard , the Twitter co link video network better reflect the real cultural consumption trend compared to the YouTube related video network .
The study validated the proposed approach is suitable for exploring the socio cultural behavior drawn from the two different social media channels . Although it has some limitations in that the analysis was constrained to k pop related videos , this approach can be applicable to study other topics and fields . Additionally , the comparison of socio cultural behaviors reflected in other social media can be conducted in the following study .
5 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] O’Riordan , S . , Feller , J . , Nagle , T . The impact of social network sites on the consumption of cultural goods . In Proceedings of ECIS 2011 .
[ 2 ] Russo , A . and Peacock , D . Great Expectations : Sustaining
Participation in Social Media Spaces . Museums and the Web 2009 , 60–69 , 2009 .
[ 3 ] Potts , J . , Cunningham , S . , Hartley , J . , Ormerod , P . Social network markets : A new definition of the creative industries . Springer , 32:167 185 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Smith , A . N . , Fischer , E . , & Yongjian , C . How does brand related user generated content differ across YouTube , Facebook , and Twitter ? . Journal of Interactive Marketing , 26(2):102 113 , 2012 .
[ 5 ] Kaplan , A . M . , & Haenlein , M . Users of the world , unite!
The challenges and opportunities of Social Media . Business horizons , 53(1):59 68 , 2010 .
[ 6 ] Freeman , LC Centrality in social networks : Conceptual clarification . Social Networks , 1:215–239 . 1979 .
[ 7 ] Korea Creative Contents Agency . Contents Industry Trend
Analysis Report ( Music Industry ) 1st quarter , 2013 .
Figure 2 : Pair making algorithm
With this process , we finally constructed each network , namely YouTube related video network and Twitter co link video network . The node of these networks is video ID related to K pop , and the edge is the frequency how many times each video pair was occurred . As Freeman ’s degree centrality was adopted for this study , we calculated each node ’s degree centrality scores [ 6 ] .
To investigate whether there are significant differences between two networks , we carried out two tailed independent sample t test . We also analyzed the overall network and more closely , top 50 ranked nodes on the network .
3 . RESULTS
3.1 Statistical analysis
Mean degree scores for the YouTube related video network and the Twitter co link video network significantly differ ( p<0.05 ) , implying that two networks exhibit different features on the whole .
Additionally , from the analysis on the top 50 nodes of the two networks , we identified three distinct points . First , total view counts of highly ranked videos in the Twitter network were relatively lower than those of the YouTube network . They have statistically significant difference ( p<0.05 ) with mean difference close to 70 million views and p value of nearly 0 . Second , the number of unique categories of Twitter network ’s top videos is slightly more than those of YouTube network ’s videos , with their numbers of 5 and 3 respectively . With regard to unique accounts who upload the videos , high centrality videos in Twitter network were uploaded by more users . To be specific , 23 unique upload accounts were found in Twitter network and only 15 in YouTube network . Additionally , the total number of videos uploaded by those unique accounts has considerably higher mean value with greater variance in Twitter network compared to YouTube network . Their significant difference was again proved by t test ( p<005 ) The high rank videos in the two networks , however , are not significantly different when it comes to the number of users who subscribe these unique accounts ( p>005 )
3.2 Content analysis
The content analysis was conducted only with the top 50 nodes . Briefly , People & Blogs , Travel & Events , and Shows categories solely appear only in Twitter network while Music and Entertainment are common categories in both networks . We also analyzed titles of videos , and we observed that top videos in Twitter network cover more various cultural contents such as
326
