Folksonomy Based Socially Aware Recommendation of
Scholarly Papers for Conference Participants
Feng Xia , Nana Yaw Asabere , Haifeng Liu , Nakema Deonauth , Fengqi Li
School of Software , Dalian University of Technology
Dalian 116620 , China fxia@acmorg innovative algorithm , folksonomy based namely ,
ABSTRACT Due to the significant proliferation of scholarly papers in both conferences and journals , recommending relevant papers to researchers for academic learning has become a substantial problem . Conferences , in comparison to journals have an aspect of social learning , which allows personal familiarization through various interactions among researchers . In this paper , we improve the social awareness of participants of smart conferences by proposing an paper recommendation Socially Aware Recommendation of Scholarly Papers ( SARSP ) . Our proposed algorithm recommends scholarly papers , issued by Active Participants ( APs ) , to other Group Profile participants at the same smart conference based on similarity of their research interests . Furthermore , through computation of social ties , SARSP generates effective recommendations of scholarly papers to participants who have strong social ties with an AP . Through a relevant real world dataset , we evaluate our proposed algorithm . Our experimental results verify that SARSP has encouraging improvements over other existing methods . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Information Filtering , Retrieval Models , Selection Process . Keywords Group Profile , Folksonomies , Paper Recommendation , Social Awareness , Smart Conference
1 . INTRODUCTION Since the 1990s , recommender systems have been extensively investigated and deployed comprehensively in various domains and applications such as mobile commerce , electronic health and mobile learning . Various recommendation algorithms and techniques such as Collaborative Filtering ( CF ) , Content Based Filtering ( CBF ) , Hybrid and Context Aware are widely discussed in literature . Through the detection of suitable resources from a potentially overwhelming variety of choices , recommender systems provide a favorable approach to facilitate both teaching and learning environments such as e learning try to address the challenges of tasks . Recommender systems learning for
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482579239 inherent the automation finding relevant resources and people for learning by attempting to filter contents for different learning settings [ 1 ] . There is the need for researchers and academicians to retrieve relevant information with a greater degree of efficiency . Currently , researchers and academicians find it difficult to connect with the right people ( eg people with similar research interests and educational goals ) and find the right content ( eg specific learning purpose , context and pedagogy ) [ 2 ] . In recent years , social behavioral data has been exponentially expanding due to the tremendous success of various outlets on social websites in different forms and purposes . This has paved the way for social computing/intelligence research , aimed to analyze , discover and model human social behavior . Furthermore , tagging systems have emerged as significant mechanisms that enable users in social networks to know themselves and understand each other well . Consequently , the innovative development of algorithms that combine recommenders and tags are likely to deliver both the flexibility and conceptual clarity inherent in tagging systems as well as in recommenders [ 3 ] . The high magnitude and vast growth of publications in both conferences and journals makes it difficult for researchers to survey or find all relevant and needed research papers in their specific fields [ 4][5 ] . Research Paper Recommender Systems are therefore developed to meet the demands of researchers who are seeking relevant papers to read for their research . Conferences create a greater sense of social awareness , familiarization and interactions of participants or attendees in comparison to journals . There is often a high possibility that a reader of a paper(s ) in a the particular does author(s)/researcher(s ) of reading . Nevertheless , this assertion does not essentially imply that , all attendees of conferences , have the opportunity to socialize with their relevant participants . This is primarily because conference sessions and workshops are time constrained and the participants are usually too many . A particular conference participant ’s research interest may qualify him/her to attend multiple conference sessions but it is not possible for such participants to attend all available sessions of a conference that meets their research interests . As a result of such scenarios at conferences , the improvement of social awareness of conference participants through mobile multimedia recommendation has become increasingly necessary and vital . Conference participants should be able to advertise their research papers to other participants at a conference , who are likely to be interested in their research areas/disciplines . In this paper , we propose an algorithm called Socially Aware Recommendation of Scholarly Papers ( SARSP ) . SARSP is designed to have a main aim of allowing and assisting active personally the paper he/she know is journal not
781 conference participants’ ( ie users’ ) advertise and recommend their research papers of interest to other participants of common social ties and similar preferences at the same conference . This will improve the social awareness of participants . Initially our proposed SARSP explicitly obtains information concerning contact durations , contact frequencies and research/academic paper interests of individual conference participants in order to determine the strength of their social ties as well as their preference similarities of research papers . A beneficial feature of SASRP involves the generation of group profiles . Group profiles involve the combination of individual user profiles of conference participants into different groups according to similar research and academic paper interests . After the group profiles are generated , an active conference participant who wants to make a recommendation pertaining to his/her research paper will advertise/post his/her academic paper tag ( title and author list ) to the group profile of similar research/academic paper interests using his/her smartphone through a Near Field Communication ( NFC ) Mechanism . Our contributions in this work include the following :

In order to generate social recommendations , we propose and develop methods and procedures to create group profiles from individual conference participants through folksonomies . Furthermore , we develop methods to compute the social ties between the active conference participant ( user ) and other participants of a smart conference .
 Through a relevant dataset , we conduct experiments in order to obtain results and compare with other existing state of the art techniques and methods .
GP1
GPn
CP1
CP2
CP3
CP4 Server
Social Tie
Recommendation
Social Tie Analyzer
Social Group Recommendation
Profiler ( Profile Similarity )
Active
Conference Participant
( User )
AP
Near Field
Communication
( NFC )
Group Profiles ( GPs )
Group Profile Manager ( GPM ) ( normalization of group preferences )
Collaborative Tagging
( Folksonomies )
Conference Participant Crawler ( CPC )
Figure 1 . SARSP Framework
2 . RELATED WORK Several scholarly/research paper recommender systems and algorithms have been presented and discussed by various researchers in recent years . A significant number of them were proposed to recommend papers based on citation relations [ 4][5 ] , while others such as [ 6 11 ] were proposed to recommend papers based on similarity of users or papers , reading purposes of users and folksonomies/collaborative tagging by users . Liang et al . [ 4 ] proposed a novel method to address the problem of too many available research papers . This was done by incorporating various citation relations for a proper set of papers , which are more relevant but with a very limited size . Similarly , in relation to citations , Huynh et al . [ 5 ] also presented a recommender module that suggests papers to users based on the seed paper's citation network . Their work took into account the combination of the co citation and co reference factors to improve their algorithm ’s effectiveness . To deal with the tri relation of user resource tag in folksonomies and the data sparsity problem in personalized recommendation , Wu et al . [ 6 ] proposed a user taste diffusion model based on the tripartite hypergraph to recommend research paper resources for users . Similar to [ 6 ] , Jomsri et al . [ 7 ] proposed a framework for a tag based research paper recommender system . Their proposed approach exploits the use of a set of tags for recommending research papers to each user . Pan et al . [ 8 ] proposed that by using topic model techniques to make topic analysis on research papers , they could introduce a thematic similarity measurement into a modified version of itembased recommendation approach . In the same vein , Jiang et al . [ 9 ] proposed a method of recommending the most problem related papers or solution related papers to users separately , in order to satisfy user specific reading purposes . In terms of conference related issues , Pham et al . [ 10 ] presented Context Aware Mobile Recommendation Services ( CAMRS ) , which generates social recommendations based on the current context ( whereabouts at the venue , popularity and activities of talks and presentations ) sensed at the conference venue . Conry et al . [ 11 ] also presented a recommender system approach to conference paper assignment problems ie the task of assigning paper submissions to reviewers . Our SARSP approach seeks to utilize not only the tag rating preference similarities of conference participants , but also their social ties computed through contact durations and contact frequencies . This is done to obtain a wider and effective coverage for recommending scholarly papers to conference participants by an active user . To the best of our knowledge , scholarly paper recommendation research using a combination of social ties and folksonomies is quite rare . This motivates us to embark on such a research direction . 3 . DESIGN OF SARSP This section presents the basic idea and framework of SASRP . Figure 1 shows that our SARSP framework generates both social tie recommendations through the social ties and social group recommendations through profile similarity ( folksonomies ) of the conference participants . Referring to Figure 1 , the Conference Participant Crawler ( CPC ) gathers and sends the collaborative tag individual conference the Group Profile Manager ( GPM ) for participants normalization into Group Profiles in accordance to tagged rating levels and interests . After the Group Profiles are formed , the ratings ( folksonomies ) of the to
782 involves techniques . Explicit feedback
Profiler computes the level of preference similarity between the active conference participant ( AP ) and the Group Profiles ( GPs ) in order to make an effective , reliable and efficient social recommendation of scholarly/research papers belonging to AP . The Social Tie Analyzer computes the contact durations and contact frequencies between AP and the other conference participants so that a wider coverage of reliable and efficient recommendations can be generated by AP to other participants according to their tie strengths . We elaborate further on our SARSP framework below . 3.1 User Interests Usually , user interests are specified through explicit and implicit feedback the user specifying his/her interests and implicit feedback involves the recommender algorithm observing the usage behavior of the user such as browsing habits and keyword inputs to determine the interests of the user . We propose an explicit approach involving conference participants specifying their research paper interests by using their mobile devices to input specific keywords in the form of tags to denote interest in some specific topics/research disciplines . We also propose an explicit approach to determine the contact durations and contact frequencies between an AP and the other participants . The strength of the social ties between an AP and the other participants is determined by the Social Tie Analyzer through ( 1 ) using ( 2 ) as a threshold . In our proposed algorithm , a tag to one or more scholarly/research papers by a conference participant , which describes an academic research paper and enables it to be classified . 3.2 Social Ties The social interactions between individuals are usually called social ties . Ties usually represent the presence or non presence of a significant relationship between two individuals , for example friendship , research familiarities etc . [ 12 ] . We measure and evaluate the tie strength between AP and another conference participant CPi using ( 1 ) . t )( relevant keyword assigned
( 1 )
SocTie is a
 
/ ) )
T
( t
 d
(
AP
,
CP i
AP
,
CP i
AP
,
CP i
In ( 1 ) , dAP,CPi(t ) is the contact duration between an AP and another conference participant , CPi in the time frame T and λAP,CPi is their contact frequency ( ie the number of times AP and CPi have been in contact within the time frame T ) . To determine the tie strength between AP and CPi , we set a threshold , γ for ( 1 ) using ( 2 ) below . The social tie values between AP and the other conference participants has to fall within the determined threshold before social tie recommendations can be generated for them in accordance to their tie strengths .
,
AP iCP
SocTie
( 2 ) t )( 3.3 Group Profile Generation As mentioned in Section 1 , the generation of a group profile involves the combination of individual user profiles of common research interests into different groups . The profile of a conference participant describes his/her interests related to research papers . These interests include various keywords regarding research papers . Group profiles therefore describe common attributes used by individual conference participants . to and share annotate , manage through academic paper resources and
To generate group profiles consisting of individual conference participants , we adopted the approach used in [ 13 ] and initially combined the profiles of individual participants based on interests expressed from research papers through collaborative tagging ( folksonomies ) . We also adopted the user resource tag relational model in [ 6 ] to create folksonomies among the conference participants tags . Folksonomies , also known as collaborative tagging systems , enable users their resources/attributes through tags . A folksonomy can be described as a hypergraph G =< CP , A , T , H > , where CP = {cp1 , cp2 , , cpn} is the set of conference participants and SP= {sp1 , sp2,,spn} is the set of scholarly papers . The interests of the individual conference participants in the hypergraph are associated with their scholarly/research papers . Additionally , in the hypergraph , T = {t1 , t2 , , tn} is the set of the tags ( keywords with ratings from 1 5 ) that specifies the levels of interest for research paper resources and H = {h1 , h2 , , hn} is the set of the hyperedges which only exist among the nodes in different sets [ 6 ] . Referring to Figure 2 , if user cp1 annotates scholarly paper sp1 with tag t1 , these three nodes will be connected by hyperedge h1 . Additionally , if the same user cp1 annotates scholarly paper sp2 with tag t2 , these three nodes will be connected by hyperedge h2 . Therefore the annotations of tags t1 and t2 through connections of hyperedges h1 and h2 respectively , can be defined as the research paper interests of cp1 . Similarly , the annotations of scholarly paper sp2 and sp3 with tag t3 by cp2 and cp3 connected to hyperedges h3 and h4 respectively , shows that the participants’ cp2 and cp3 have a common research paper interest through tag t3 . After computing the folksonomies of the conference participants , their tagged ratings have to be arranged into groups by the GPM because they have different scales and ratings . It is therefore necessary to compute the average of the weights associated with each tag that is used to describe the preferences of the participants in order for the GPM to create a priority list of preferences for generating each group profile . Each preference of a participant , which is classified by a tagged rating , is denoted as an integer value ranging from 1 to 5 ,
Participant 1 ( cp1 ) sp1 h1 t1
( tr=1 to 5 ) t2
( tr=1 to 5 ) h2 sp2
Tags 1 , 2 and 3 are represented respectively as t1 , t2 and t3 . Each tag is assigned a rating from 1 5 ( tag ratings ( tr ) = 1 to 5) ) . Scholarly papers 1 , 2 and 3 are also respectively represented as sp1 , sp2 and sp3 . The Hyperedges connecting each folksonomy are represented respectively as h1 , h2 and h3 .
Participant 2 ( cp2 ) h3 t3
( tr=1 to 5 ) h4
Participant 3 ( cp3 ) sp3
Figure 2 . A Conference Participant Scholarly Paper Tag Relation Model
783 where 1 is for the lowest preference rating , while the highest preference rating is 5 . Each participant may have multiple tag ratings for different scholarly papers . Let the preferences of each group profile be GP = {gp1 , gp2 , gp3 , , gpn} . GPM further intersects common neighbors and predicts different groups of participants through a normalization procedure . cp max TR
( 3 ) cp )  min
 max min TR cp  ncp cp min ji ,


( j
In ( 3 ) ncpi,j is used to compute the normalized ( n ) values for common tags that have been rated differently by conference participants . Furthermore , cpi,j represents the individual ratings of the participants for a particular tag , where i is the notation for a particular participant and j is his/her tagged rating for a particular scholarly paper . The specific maximum and minimum ratings of the participants for a particular tag are respectively represented as cpmax and cpmin . Additionally , TRmax and TRmin represent the overall maximum and minimum tagged ratings in the dataset . For example , in a scenario where the lowest and highest ratings of participants for a “ cloud computing ” tag in the dataset are 2 and 4 ( cpmin=2 and cpmax=4 ) , respectively . If a conference participant , cp1 annotates a “ cloud computing ” tag with a rating of 4 ( cpj ) , the normalized value pertaining to the tag annotation of cp1 is computed as : ncp
, 41

2
( ncp
, 41

22
) 424   15  4

2
42  4 j
(
 cp i gp ncp j,i
  1 Ncp
It must be noted that , in the above computation , TRmax and TRmin are respectively equal to 5 and 1 , representing the highest and lowest possible tagged ratings in the dataset .
( 4 )
In ( 4 ) , the values obtained from ( 3 ) are summed up and divided by the number of conference participants ( Ncp ) who assigned ratings to a particular tag . Consequently , through ( 4 ) , we compute and achieve an average normalized value that indicates the formation and allocation of a group profile for the cps . The cps are allocated into their respective group profiles if their rating for a particular tag is greater than or equal to ( ≥ ) their corresponding groups’ average normalized value ( gpj ) .
( 5 )
To determine the similarity between AP and gpj , ie Sim(AP,gpj ) , our algorithm returns a Pearson Score between 1 and 1 , where 1 signifies that AP and gpj have exactly the same or quiet similar ratings and 1 signifies otherwise [ 14 ] . Due to the fact that there are multiple group profiles and different research/scholarly papers to be recommended by different APs , our algorithm loops through different AP and gpj transactions for the entire smart conference , in order to calculate relevant Pearson Scores for each transaction by using ( 5 ) . In ( 5 ) ra,i and rb,i denote the highest ratings of users a and b for item i . In our algorithm , a=AP and b= gpj . The average ratings of users a and b are denoted by ȓa and ȓb respectively .
 Ii  r ( ia ,

 ba ),(
Sim r ia , r ib , r ib , r a r a r b
Ii 
Ii  r b
)
2
)
)


)(


(
2 tie and group for the
Algorithm : Pseudocode social recommendations of AP ’s scholarly paper(s ) 1 : // Define Structure of conf_part to contain 2 : String User 3 : String Tag 4 : String Scholarly Paper 5 : Integer Rating 6 : // Declare and initialize variables 7 : i and j // integer variables 8 : Sim_thresh and Soc_tie_thresh // floating variables 9 : Identify unique tags and classify as group 10 : //Calculate normalized values of groups using Eqs . ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) 11 : //Allocate conf_part to respective groups 12 : for every conf_part i 13 : if ( conf_part[i].Rating >=gp[j].val ) 14 : Assign conf_part[i ] into group gp[j ] ; 15 : end if 16 : end for 17 : //Compute Similarity between AP and gpj using Eq ( 5 ) 18 : if Sim(AP,gpj ) ≥ Sim_thresh then 19 : recommend AP ’s scholarly paper to gpj ; 20 : end if 21 : //Calculate Social Tie using Eq ( 1 ) 22 : for every CPi 23 : if ( SocTieAP,CPi ( t)≥Soc_tie_thresh ) then 24 : recommend AP ’s scholarly paper to CPi ; 25 : end if 26 : end for
In our algorithm , for the group profile generation , we divide our procedures into structure transactions . Each transaction , which is similar to the hypergraph is made up of three strings ; namely a conference participant , tag and research paper resource . These are depicted in steps 1 5 . Variables are declared and initialized in steps 6 8 . In step 9 , unique groups are identified . In steps 10 15 , our algorithm calculates the normalized values of identified groups and allocates conference participants to their respective groups . Steps 17 20 compute the similarity between the AP and the group profiles and recommends AP ’s scholarly paper based on a threshold value . Similarly , steps 21 25 , calculate the social tie between AP and every conference participant and recommends AP ’s scholarly paper based on a threshold value . 4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION In this section , we evaluate the performance of our SARSP approach through benchmarking experiments . We initially discuss the experimental dataset followed by a description of the evaluation metrics that we employed to validate the performance of our algorithm . Finally , we present our experimental analysis and results . 4.1 Dataset and Experiment Setup In order to test our algorithm using relevant data , we simulated a “ mock conference ” . There was difficulty in obtaining the relevant data parameters for our experiment . Therefore , we gathered our own dataset by collecting data from research students in the School of Software at Dalian University of Technology , China and named it SocRec dataset . The SocRec dataset consists of data covering title of paper ( paper id ) , keywords and ratings which are
784 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 s t n a p i c i t r a P f o r e b m u N
5
15
10 60 Contact Duration Between Presenters and Participants
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
( mins . )
( a ) Contact duration trends
100 80 60 40 20 0 s t n a p i c i t r a P f o r e b m u N s t n a p i c i t r a P f o r e b m u N
140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0
1
3
4 2 Tag Rating
5
1
2
3
4
5
6
Contact Frequency for Social
Ties ( Times of Contact )
( b ) Contact frequency trends ( c ) Tag rating trends Figure 3 . Details and components of SocRec dataset used to identify user interests through tagging . The SocRec dataset also includes data for estimating the social ties of users and is made up of a total number of 73 APs and 360 participants . We gathered tagged rating trends of participants and a summary of these details is shown in Figure 3(c ) . Additionally , we monitored the contact trends between the APs and participants , this information is illustrated in Figure 3(a ) and Figure 3(b ) which respectively shows the contact duration and frequency trends . We divided the SocRec dataset into two parts : training set ( 60% ) , test set ( 40% ) . The simulated “ mock conference ” was scheduled to run for a total time frame T of 12 hours ( 720 minutes ) . We found the highest contact duration and contact frequency to be 60 minutes and 6 respectively ie dAP,CPi(t ) = 60 and λAP,CPi= 6 . Using ( 1 ) , we computed the highest SocTieAP,CPi(t ) = ( 6 × 60)/720 and obtained a result of 0.5 for the highest positive and effective recommendation based on strong social ties between AP and CPi . Therefore , we set the range for recommendation based on the social ties as 0≤SocTieAP,CPi(t)≤0.5 and allocated a social tie threshold of 0.3 and above in accordance to the dataset . Usually , the Pearson Score ( PS ) between two users/products for the computation of their similarities is between 1 and 1 ie 1≤ PS≤1 . Therefore , group recommendations for gpj by AP was based on the Pearson Scores achieved by our algorithm . 4.2 Evaluation Metrics We focused on the quality of the set of recommendations regarding scholarly papers and employed two common classification metrics namely , precision and recall to evaluate our proposed recommendation method . These evaluation metrics are appropriate for evaluating proposed methods and algorithms that involve the binary preferences of users [ 15 ] . generating social range the for n o i s i c e r P
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0.9 0.85 0.8 0.75 0.7 0.65 0.6 0.55 l l a c e R good
Recall 
Precision  recommende d papers recommenda tions d recommende papers
Precision is defined as the ratio of the number of relevant items/resources received to the total number of retrieved items/resources . Recall is defined as the ratio of the number of relevant items/resources which are retrieved to the total number of all relevant items/resources [ 15 ] . Using ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) , we computed precision and recall for each social tie value and Pearson Score in accordance to the dataset . good ( 6 ) all papers ( 7 ) all good 4.3 Results and Analysis As elaborated above , we utilized the precision and recall of different social recommendations based on collaborative tagging of preference similarities ( folksonomies ) and social tie strengths of conference participants ( users ) . We compared our proposed method with those of Ziberna and Vehovar [ 16 ] and Ye et al . [ 17 ] for social tie recommendation , respectively represented as A1 and A2 in our experiments . Similarly , the work by Gartrell et al . [ 18 ] and Peng et al . [ 19 ] were used as a comparison for social group recommendation and were likewise represented as A3 and A4 in our experiment . The results obtained from computing the Pearson correlation and social tie values between the APs and participants in the dataset of our experiment corresponded to the efficiency of APs social recommendation . Therefore high computed values resulted in effective social recommendations . Figure 4(a ) and Figure 4(b ) of
A1 A2 SARSP
0.4
0.32
A3 A4 SARSP
0.24
0.16 n o i s i c e r P
0.08
0
0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5
0 0 . 2 0 . 4 0 . 6 0 . 8 1
Social Tie ( a ) ( b )
Pearson Score
Figure 4 . Precision Performance on SocRec Dataset : ( a ) Social Tie Recommendation and ( b ) Social Group Recommendation
0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 l l a c e R
A1 A2 SARSP
A3 A4 SARSP
0 0 . 2 0 . 4 0 . 6 0 . 8 1
Pearson Score
0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5
Social Tie
( a ) ( b )
Figure 5 . Recall Performance on SocRec Dataset : ( a ) Social Tie Recommendation and ( b ) Social Group Recommendation
785 our experimental analysis show that , at the maximum threshold value for social ties ( 0.5 ) and Pearson Score ( 1.0 ) , SARSP attained the highest precision values ( 0.072 and 0.076 ) when compared to A1 ( 0.059 ) , A2 ( 0.035 ) , A3 ( 0.068 ) and A4 ( 0038 ) Interestingly , SARSP had the lowest false positive error and generated more effective and good recommendations ( high precision ) . Therefore , according to Figure 4 , a continuous decrease in precision of the four methods will result in SARSP outperforming A1 and A2 in terms of social tie recommendation , and A3 and A4 in terms of social group recommendation . According to Figure 5(a ) and Figure 5(b ) , the recall values of SARSP are higher than those of A1 , A2 , A3 and A4 . Furthermore , at the highest social tie maximum threshold value of 0.5 , SARSP achieved a higher recall value ( 0.878 ) than A1 ( 0.859 ) and A2 ( 0810 ) This scenario is repeated in the same way for the maximum Pearson Score of 10 Therefore SARSP outperformed A1 , A2 , A3 and A4 in terms of recall and generated more social tie and group recommendations . Our experiment also showed that there was a reduction in data sparsity and cold start problems because most of scholarly papers in our dataset had been rated ( high coverage ) by the users ( participants ) . It can be seen from Figures 4 and 5 that SARSP achieved better results reliably in all the utilized evaluation metrics . In particular , our approach is prominent on the dataset in terms of social tie evaluation . 5 . CONCLUSION This paper has proposed an algorithm ( SARSP ) that enlarges the coverage of mobile social recommendations for conference participants through the benefit of constructing relations in folksonomies and social ties . SARSP utilizes contact durations and frequencies as well as tagged ratings to advantageously raise its level of performance among others . Consequently , the comparative that our proposed method outperformed the others in terms of precision and recall evaluation metrics . However , our proposed method does not include integration of context and clustering techniques for a more concise generation of group profiles in the recommendation procedure . We hope to tackle these research issues in the future . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was partially supported by the Liaoning Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No . 201202032 . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Verbert , K . , Manouselis , N . , Ochoa , Wolpers , M . , Drachsler , H . , Bosnic , I . , and Duval , E . Context Aware Recommender Systems for Learning : A Survey and Future Challenges . IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies , 5:4 , 318 335 . 2012 illustrate results
[ 2 ] Vassileva , J . Toward Social Learning Environments . IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies , 1:4 , 199 214 . 2008 [ 3 ] Sen , S . , Vig , J . , and Riedl , J . Tagommenders : Connecting Users to Items through Tags . In Proc . of the 18th ACM International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , 671680 . 2009
[ 4 ] Liang , Y . , Li , Q . and Qian , T . Finding Relevant Papers Information
Based on Citation Relations . Web Age Management , Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 403–414 . 2011
[ 5 ] Huynh , T . , Hoang , K . , Doc , L . , Tran , H . , Luong , H . and Gauch , S . Scientific Publication Recommendations Based on Collaborative Citation Networks . In Proc . of the IEEE International Conference on Collaboration Technologies and Systems ( CTS ) , Denver , USA , 316 321 . 2012
[ 6 ] Wu , J . , Shi , Y . and Guo , C . A Resource Recommendation Method Based on User Taste Diffusion Model in Folksonomies , ” Knowledge Science Engineering and Management , Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 112–123 . 2011
[ 7 ] Jomsri , P . , Sanguansintukul , S . and Choochaiwattana , W . A Framework for Tag Based Research Paper Recommender System : An IR Approach . In Proc . of the 24th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Inform . Network and Applications Workshops , Perth , Western Australia , 103 108 . 2010
[ 8 ] Pan , C . and Li , W . Research Paper Recommendation with Topic Analysis , ” in Proc . of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Design and Applications ( ICCDA ) , Qinhuangdao , China , 264 268 . 2010
[ 9 ] Jiang , Y . , Jia , A . , Feng , Y . and Zhao , D . Recommending Academic Papers via Users’ Reading Purposes . In Proc . of the 6th ACM International Conference on Recommender Systems , Dublin , Ireland , 241 – 244 . 2012
[ 10 ] Pham , M . C . , Kovachev , D . , Cao , Y . , Mbogos , G . M . and Klamma , R . Enhancing Academic Event Participation with Context aware and Social Recommendations . In Proc . of the IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining ( ASONAM ) , Istanbul , Turkey , 464 471 . 2012
[ 11 ] Conry , D . , Koren , Y . and Ramakrishnan , N . Recommender Systems for the Conference Paper Assignment Problem . In Proc . of the 3rd ACM International Conference on Recommender Systems , New York , USA , 357 360 . 2009
[ 12 ] Vastardis , N . and Yang , K . Mobile Social Networks : Architectures , Social Properties and Key Research Challenges . IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , 15:3 , 1 17 . 2013
[ 13 ] Shin , C . and Woo , W . Socially Aware TV Program Recommender for Multiple Viewers . IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics , 55:2 , 927 932 . 2009
[ 14 ] Schafer , JB , Frankowski , D . , Herlocker , J . and Sen , S . Collaborative Filtering Recommender Systems . Lecture Notes in Computer Science , 4321 : 291 324 . 2007
[ 15 ] del Olmo , F . H . , and Gaudioso , E Evaluation of Recommender Systems : A New Approach , ” Expert Syst . with Applicat . , 35 : 3 , 790 804 . 2008
[ 16 ] Ziberna , A . and Vehovar , V . Using Social Network to Predict the Behavior of Active Members of Online Communities . IEEE International Conference on Advances in Social Network Analysis and Mining ( ASONAM ) , Athens , Greece , 119 124 . 2009
[ 17 ] Ye , M . , Yin , P . , Lee , WC and Lee , DL Exploiting Geographical Influence for Collaborative Point of Interest Recommendation . In Proc . of the 34th ACM SIGIR International Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , Beijing , China , 325 334 . 2011
[ 18 ] Gartrell , M . , Xing , X . , Lv , Q . , Beach , A . , Han , R . , Mishra , S . and Seada , K . Enhancing Group Recommendation by Incorporating Social Relationship Interactions . In Proc . of the 16thACM International Conference on Supporting Group Work , Florida , USA , 97 106 . 2010
[ 19 ] Peng , J . , Zeng , DD , Zhao , H . and , Wang , FY Collaborative Filtering in Social Tagging Systems Based on Joint Item Tag Recommendations . In Proc . of the 19thACM International Conference on Knowledge and Information Management , Toronto , Ontario , Canada , 809 818 . 2010
786
