The “ Expression Gap ” : Do you Like what you Share ?
Si Si
University of Texas Austin ssi@csutexasedu Neel Sundaresan eBay Research Labs nsundaresan@ebay.com ior ) often diverges from expression ( measured as shares to external social networks ) . We establish that this discrepancy is beyond random behavior and call this the expression gap ( see Figure 1 ) . We further explore the expression gap when various signals for consumption are combined together , specifically a linear combination of purchasing and browsing behavior . Our analysis shows that this explains only a part of the behavioral gap .
Figure 1 : Diagram showing the notion of “ expression gap ” .
Related Work . Crandall et al . [ 4 ] show that similarity between users can predict social interactions over long periods of time . Also [ 5 ] consider homophily in social networks and conclude that modest preferences to similar others can be amplified by biased selection . [ 3 ] undertake a game theoretic exploration of how opinions evolve in the presence of friendship , and [ 1 ] study the impact of social influence on behavior . Several recent papers [ 7 , 6 ] have studied incorporating social interaction for e commerce recommender systems .
Atish Das Sarma eBay Research Labs atishdassarma@gmailcom
Elizabeth F . Churchill eBay Research Labs churchill@acm.org
ABSTRACT While recommendation profiles increasingly leverage social actions such as “ shares ” , the predictive significance of such actions is unclear . To what extent do public shares correlate with other online behaviors such as searches , views and purchases ? Based on an analysis of 950,000 users’ behavioral , transactional , and social sharing data on a global online commerce platform , we show that social “ shares ” , or publicly posted expressions of interest do not correlate with non public behaviors such as views and purchases . A key takeaway is that there is a “ gap ” between public and non public actions online , suggesting that marketers and advertisers need to be cautious in their estimation of the significance of social sharing .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent years , significant effort has been expended trying to capture and understand online user behavior as a basis for tailoring users’ experiences . Contemporary product and service marketing through personalized targeting makes the assumption that presentation of similar or related content will result in greater likelihood of repeat or further consumption . Recommendations are selected based on users’ prior behaviors and expressed preferences .
Increasingly “ social signals ” such as “ likes ” and “ shares ” are also considered to be a reflection of a user ’s interests . Commerce platforms also offer “ share widgets ” for easy posting to social networks and our results are based on such data gathered from eBay . For promoters of events , products , and services there are two key questions regarding such social sharing : ( 1 ) does exposure to new potential consumers increase the number of people consuming the service or product , and ( 2 ) do these socially expressed interests actually correlate with a users’ intent to purchase and with their own consumption and purchasing decisions . While much research has been conducted on the first question , eg , [ 2 ] , little research has directly addressed whether social shares from commerce platforms reflect a stronger likelihood of actual purchase by the individual who posts them . In this paper we address this second question .
Our results indicate that , at the aggregate level , socially expressed interests do not correlate strongly with intrinsic tastes . We show that consumption ( measured as either purchases or browsing behav
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577295
Figure 2 : CDF plot : x = #purchases/#shares and y = fraction of users with that ratio . Dashed line indicates log normal fit .
247 ( a ) page view share gap
( b ) purchase share gap
( c ) linear combination
Figure 3 : CDF plots of expression gap for shares vs . ( a ) page views , ( b ) purchase , ( c ) linear combination of page views and purchases .
2 . DATASET AND STATISTICS
We gathered data from eBay and focus only on buyers as sellers may be motivated to share/promote items they are selling . Our dataset included almost a million unique users ( active between Dec 2012 and June 2013 ) , several million shares , tens of millions of purchases , and over 60 million page views . The marketplace includes 39 self explanatory top level product type categories such as Fashion , Electronics , Real Estate , Home & Garden , and Sports . The CDF plot in Figure 2 indicates that there are several users who buy a lot but almost never share , and vice versa , as is to be expected . This differing behavior , however , is expected . The next section explores this at a content category level , establishing a gap even among users that share and consume a lot . 3 . MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS
We first introduce some notation . We define a sharer as a user who has shared at least one item . For each sharer i , we have the following . ei is a vector that distributes user i ’s shares into the 39 top level categories , normalized to form a probability distribution . So ei(j ) , shows the fraction of shares made by i that fall in the jth category . Similarly , based on user i ’s page view and purchase history , we define ci,1 or ci,2 . In order to investigate whether a user ’s shares are random behavior or closely aligned with personal interests , we estimate the distances between two kinds of consumption ci ( either ci,1 or ci,2 ) and expression ( ei ) using Euclidean distance . Further , by ep i , we denote the vector obtained by powering each value in ei to the p th power , and then normalizing it back to a probability vector ( similarly for cp i,2 ) . This skews vectors in favor of the stronger dimensions . i,1 or cp
The second baseline mimics a situation of consumption and expression arising from the same distribution . So the real share vector ei is compared against a simulated “ interest based ” share vector ˜ei . ˜ei is generated by sampling shares for each user , from its own page view or purchase distribution ( as the case may be ) . d(˜ei , ci,1 ) and d(˜ei , ci,2 ) are the resulting baselines ( notice this is a significantly stronger test than comparing against the baseline of zero gap ) .
Do shares correlate with consumption ? We show the main results in Figure 3 . In Figures 3a and 3b , we show five lines , two corresponding to the two baselines based on uniform and interestbased sampling ( shown in dashed lines ) , and three lines each based on the distances d(ep i,1 ) , for p = 1 , 3 , 5 . Since these are CDF plots , higher lines reflect smaller distances overall . We see that increasing p does not help in reducing the overall gap . i,1 ) and d(ep i , cp i , cp
Random processes for comparison . If we simply compute d(ei , ci,1 ) and d(ei , ci,2 ) , the distance values would not mean much in isolation , since it is hard to interpret whether a specific value is “ similar ” or “ different ” . We therefore use two baselines . The first is obtained by generating a share vector ¯ei uniformly at random across the dimensions ( respecting the number of shares for each user ) .
The red dashed line corresponds to distances if the shares were performed uniformly at random , d(¯ei , ci,1 ) or d(¯ei , ci,2 ) . Further , the green dashed line corresponds to the distances with the simulated share , ie if the shares were performed according to the page view or purchase decisions , d(˜ei , ci,1 ) or d(˜ei , ci,2 ) . The green dashed line stochastically dominates all the solid lines . This suggests that shares and actual purchases tend to be significantly different even though users clearly make deliberate decisions when sharing .
Test through linear combinations . Figure 3c discusses the setting when we optimize a parameter independently for each user to minimize the gap between their expression and consumption . In particular , we compute for each user i a parameter αi to minimize d(ei , αi · ci,1 + ( 1 − αi ) · ci,2 ) . The solid black line corresponds to the resulting distance distribution , while the red and blue dashed lines correspond to the previous distributions of d(ei , ci,1 ) and d(ei , ci,2 ) respectively . We omit plotting the distribution of the values of αi due to space constraints ; it was noticed that around 30 40 % users each had an optimal αi = 0 or αi = 1 , while the remaining αi values were uniformly spread across ( 0 , 1 ) . We see that the black solid line only results in a marginal lift in stochastic domination . This is somewhat surprising , suggesting that there remains a significant component of expression gap that remains unexplained even as differing signals of consumption are combined together .
This gap across the figures illustrates that the strongest signal of true deep seated interests are fundamentally different and do not necessarily manifest in the form of socially expressed preferences . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Anagnostopoulos , R . Kumar , and M . Mahdian . Influence and correlation in social networks . In KDD ’08 , pages 7–15 , 2008 .
[ 2 ] E . Bakshy , J . M . Hofman , W . A . Mason , and D . J . Watts .
Everyone ’s an influencer : quantifying influence on twitter . In WSDM , 2011 .
[ 3 ] K . Bhawalkar , S . Gollapudi , and K . Munagala . Coevolutionary opinion formation games . In STOC ’13 , pages 41–50 , 2013 .
[ 4 ] D . J . Crandall , D . Cosley , D . P . Huttenlocher , J . M . Kleinberg , and S . Suri . Feedback effects between similarity and social influence in online communities . In KDD , pages 160–168 , 2008 .
[ 5 ] G . Kossinets and D . J . Watts . Origins of homophily in an evolving social network1 . American Journal of Sociology , 115(2 ) , 2009 .
[ 6 ] C . Lam . Snack : incorporating social network information in automated collaborative filtering . In EC , pages 254–255 , 2004 .
[ 7 ] J . Leskovec , L . A . Adamic , and B . A . Huberman . The dynamics of viral marketing . ACM Trans . Web , 1(1 ) , 2007 .
248
