Beyond Modeling Private Actions : Predicting Social
Shares
∗
Si Si
University of Texas Austin ssi@csutexasedu Elizabeth F . Churchill eBay Research Labs churchill@acm.org
ABSTRACT We study the problem of predicting sharing behavior from e commerce sites to friends on social networks via share widgets . The contextual variation in an action that is private ( like rating a movie on Netflix ) , to one shared with friends online ( like sharing an item on Facebook ) , to one that is completely public ( like commenting on a Youtube video ) introduces behavioral differences that pose interesting challenges . In this paper , we show that users’ interests manifest in actions that spill across different types of channels such as sharing , browsing , and purchasing . This motivates leveraging all such signals available from the e commerce platform . We show that carefully incorporating signals from these interactions significantly improves share prediction accuracy .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences
Keywords Recommender systems ; e commerce ; user behavior analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Social media platforms provide an outlet for expressing personal preferences or generic opinions with friends through features like “ share’ . Increasingly , these “ social signals ” include events , products , and services . Shares pertaining to commerce are particularly relevant from a monetization standpoint . Share widgets are being rolled out on platforms like Amazon and eBay in the hope that they increase sales through network marketing . There however remains little understanding on how users actually engage with these share widgets on such marketplaces . There has been a vast body of work towards predicting private preferences ( eg ratings ) . However , predicting users’ preferences for sharing items from e commerce sites to external social networks remains challenging even at the broad ∗Work done while interning at eBay Research Labs .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577278
Atish Das Sarma eBay Research Labs atishdassarma@gmailcom
Neel Sundaresan eBay Research Labs nsundaresan@ebay.com category level ( ie likelihood of user sharing an item in fashion vs . sports memorabilia ) . Designing good share prediction algorithms , have practical implications in prioritizing content for user feeds , marketing strategies , and general recommendations .
Recommendation algorithms do not always distinguish between actions that often elicit vastly different behaviors : for eg ( a ) actions that are private ( like rating a movie on Netflix ) , ( b ) those that are shared with online friends ( like sharing an item on Facebook ) , ( c ) actions that are completely public ( like commenting on a Youtube video ) . The focus of this paper is on predicting the second type of action , although originating from an e commerce platform . We demonstrate that combining interests through multiple distinct , yet related , types of actions : for eg browsing through item pages , sharing through widgets , or engaging in purchases . yields improved prediction algorithms .
Dataset . In this paper , we focus on the objective of predicting users’ sharing behavior across the categories of items on data from eBay . The dataset is collected from a large sample of users and actions between 2012 and 2013 . We consider 950,000 users , with around 2.5 million shares , 20 million transactions , and over 66 million page views . Further , each item involved falls in a category tree structure , with 39 top level categories ( such as fashion , home and garden , books ) and one of around 15000 leaf categories . To illustrate the rough statistics and variation across shares , pageviews , and purchases , we show distributional plots in Figure 1 .
2 . OUR PROPOSED APPROACH
The problem is formulated as follows : given a share matrix S ∈ Rm×n with missing entries , where each Sij gives the number of times the user i shares items in category j and m and n being the number of users and categories respectively , the task is to predict all missing entries based on the existing known entries in S . We are also given two other matrices P and B showing users’ pageview and purchase histories over categories . So Pij and Bij give the number of times user i has purchased or clicked on items in category j respectively .
To predict a user ’s share interest in some categories , one common way is to consider recommendation system based approaches . For recommendation system problems , it has been widely shown that matrix factorization based approaches perform better than traditional neighborhood based approaches [ 4 ] . For matrix factorization , we want to find two matrices WS ∈ Rm×k and HS ∈ Rn×k , such that for the known entry , ws T is close to Sij , where ws i j are the i th row for WS and j th row for HS respectively . and hs i hs j
377 ( a ) share
( b ) pageview
( c ) purchase
Figure 1 : User count distributions for number of shares , pageviews and purchases ( in log log scale ) .
Figure 2 : Varying rank k for AMF for share prediction . We see that AMF always performs better than MF and NN . Further , AMF is better than augmenting the share matrix with just one of purchases(AMF(S+B ) ) or pageviews(AMF(S+P) ) .
We want to solve : min
( Sij −ws i hs j
T )2 +λ,WS2
F + HS2
F
, ( 1 )
( i,j)∈ΩS
WS∈Rm×k HS∈Rn×k where ΩS is the set of observed shares in S ; λ is the regularization parameter for both WS and HS . The share matrix S is apS and the number of shares the user i makes proximated by WSH T T . Similarly , we can solve for j th category is predicted as ws B . P and B by WBH T the Problem ( 1 ) to approximate P by WP H T Based on that , we can predict Pij and Bij accordingly . A simple way to use this information is to combine the interactions together as follows , named Augmented Matrix Factorization(AMF ) : i hs j
¯Sij = αsws i hs j
T + αpwp i hp j
T + αbwb i hb j
T
,
( 2 ) i and hb i and hp where wp j are the i th row for WP and j th row for HP respectively ; wb j are the i th row for WB and j th row for HB respectively ; and αs , αp , αb are weights learned from the share matrix S . These three scores show the likelihood of user i sharing , purchasing , and clicking on the items in j th category . So the combination of these three shows combined interaction of user i .
In Figure 2 , we show the benefit of using auxiliary information from pageviews and purchases to improve the share prediction . In this figure , we compare AMF with performing matrix factorization on S alone(MF ) and the neighborhood based approach(NN ) , which predicts the number of shares based on the neighbors of the user . We can clearly see that both MF and AMF perform better than NN , showing that the matrix factorization based methods performs better than neighborhood based approaches for share prediction . Furthermore , using just purchases ( in AMF(S+B ) ) or just pageviews ( in AMF(S+P ) ) is not sufficient to derive the full predictive accuracy . The figure also shows that AMF is robust to varying k .
3 . RELATED WORK
There are studies that investigate effects of integrating social networks into e commerce websites[2 , 7 ] . The goal of providing users with the flexibility to share their interests is to increase consumption based on the belief that social influence is a strong promoter for the consumption . Studies [ 7 , 1 , 3 ] show that while social links are sparse , transactions between friends’ friends in the network usually correlate with higher user satisfaction , and take this to indicate the positive impact of social media . Integration of recommender systems in e commerce marketplaces to foster and leverage social interaction has shown some success [ 6 , 5 ] .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Guo , M . Wang , and J . Leskovec . The role of social networks in online shopping : information passing , price of trust , and consumer choice . In EC , pages 157–166 , 2011 . [ 2 ] B . J . Jansen , K . Sobel , and G . Cook . Being networked and being engaged : the impact of social networking on ecommerce information behavior . In iConference , 2011 .
[ 3 ] S W Kim , C . Faloutsos , and J . Ha . Blogcast effect on information diffusion in a blogosphere . In SIGIR , pages 1149–1150 , 2011 .
[ 4 ] Y . Koren . Collaborative filtering with temporal dynamics . In
KDD , pages 447–456 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] C . Lam . Snack : incorporating social network information in automated collaborative filtering . In EC , 2004 .
[ 6 ] J . Leskovec , L . A . Adamic , and B . A . Huberman . The dynamics of viral marketing . ACM Trans . Web , 2007 .
[ 7 ] G . Swamynathan , C . Wilson , B . Boe , K . Almeroth , and B . Y . Zhao . Do social networks improve e commerce ? a study on social marketplaces . In WOSN , pages 1–6 , 2008 .
378
