Towards Semantic Faceted Search
Marcelo Arenas†
Dept . of Computer Science
PUC Chile
Bernardo Cuenca Grau‡ Dept . of Computer Science
University of Oxford
Evgeny Kharlamov‡ Dept . of Computer Science
University of Oxford
Šar¯unas Marciuška‡ Dept . of Computer Science
University of Oxford
Dmitriy Zheleznyakov‡ Dept . of Computer Science
University of Oxford
ABSTRACT In this paper we present limitations of conventional faceted search in the way data , facets , and queries are modelled . We discuss how these limitations can be addressed with Semantic Web technologies such as RDF , OWL 2 , and SPARQL 11 We also present a system , SemFacet , that is a proof of concept prototype of our approach implemented on top of Yago knowledge base , powered by the OWL 2 RL triple store RDFox , and the full text search engine Lucene .
1 . MOTIVATION AND PROPOSAL
Faceted search is a technique for accessing document collections that combines text search and faceted navigation applied to the documents’ metadata . With faceted navigation , users can narrow down search results by incrementally applying multiple filters called facets [ 6 ] . During the last decade , faceted search has become a mainstream commercial technology , and it is ubiquitous in e commerce websites and online libraries . Despite the numerous success stories , however , traditional faceted search models impose severe constraints in the way ( i ) faceted metadata is represented , ( ii ) facets are defined , and ( iii ) queries are formulated [ 4 , 14 ] . Pushing the boundaries of faceted search beyond the current state ofthe art requires addressing several challenges , which we discuss next . To make the discussion concrete , suppose we are looking in a travel website such as TripAdvisor for accommodation in Seoul to attend the WWW 2014 conference . We look for a 4 star or 5 star hotel with a Korean or Japanese vegetarian restaurant . Limitations of the data model . Classical faceted search models assume that documents are not “ linked ” to each other . We can start our search in TripAdvisor by filling in an initial form to obtain all available hotel documents in Seoul during the conference dates . The search can then be further refined by using the facets “ hotel class ” and “ amenities ” to select 4 star or 5 star hotels with restaurants . To complete our query , we need additional constraints about restaurant documents ; however , the relevant facets are associated to restaurants , and not to hotels . Thus , we switch to the interface for restaurants , where we can use the available facets to select Japanese †Email : marenas@ingpuccl ‡Email : firstnamemiddlenamelastname@csoxacuk
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’14 Companion , April 7–11 , 2014 , Seoul , Korea . ACM 978 1 4503 2745 9/14/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/25679482577381 or Korean vegetarian friendly restaurants in Seoul . Although the hotel specific and the restaurant specific “ views ” have in common the information provided in the initial search form ( ie , city and dates ) , there is no link between hotel and restaurant documents and hence the constraints we imposed to restaurants are not transferred to the hotel view . Thus , although many hotels featured in TripAdvisor satisfy our query , narrowing down the search to only those hotels requires significant manual browsing effort . Limitations of the facet model . In their most basic form , facets consist of a heading and a set of values ; eg , hotel star ratings in TripAdvisor are modelled as a facet having one value for each 1 star to 5 star rating . Many applications , however , also define facets that are hierarchical . For example , accommodation in TripAdvisor is divided into hotels , B&B , and rentals ; hotels into luxury , business etc . Hierarchical facets provide background domain knowledge which can be exploited to improve faceted search ; however , they are still rather limited . Although a hierarchical facet establishes dependencies between its values , the underlying semantic relationship ( eg , “ is a ” , “ part of ” ) is undefined . There are also issues concerning dependencies between facets , which cannot be represented in such a simple model . E.g , the type of hotel and the star ratings are correlated ( eg , motels cannot be 5 star ) ; these dependencies are typically implemented ad hoc , which negatively impacts systems’ maintainability , performance , and reliability . Limitations of the query model . The limitations above affect queries that users can pose . In particular , facet values for different kinds of documents cannot be joined in a single query . Thus , in TripAdvisor our example query cannot be formulated : even if we can query for both hotels or restaurants independently , when we “ switch view ” from hotels to restaurants , the constraints imposed on hotels are lost . Similar limitations were observed for faceted search over interlinked documents [ 3 , 14 ] , webpages [ 12 ] , databases [ 7 ] , dataspaces [ 17 ] , and knowledge bases [ 3 , 12 ] . Orthogonally , there are issues with the meaning of queries , which affect the way they are processed in the backend and their results are interpreted by users . In a faceted search front end , users are presented with facets and allowed to make a multiple choice within each facet . Typically , choices in one facet are understood as logical OR , and constraints for different facets are combined with logical AND . Thus , if a user chooses “ 2 star ” and “ 3 star ” , they are looking for hotels with two or three stars . Multiple choice in a single facet could also be interpreted conjunctively , eg , when the users choses “ WiFi ” and “ parking ” facilities . Ambiguity is resolved in the backend when queries are translated into operations over inverted indicies . This process is application dependent , and it is not grounded on a formal query model that can be independently studied . Semantic Faceted Search . RDF has been proposed by many authors as a promising technology to overcome some of the lim
219 ther choose available facet values , or refocus the query to a different facet . In response the system updates the query answers as well as the facets available ( they are automatically generated from the underlying RDF and OWL 2 ontology ) to continue query refinement . SemFacet also exploits OWL 2 axioms to enrich RDF data with implicit triples . This helps in addressing sparsity of annotations and modelling of hierarchical facets . Moreover , OWL 2 axioms help in avoiding “ dead ends ” ( ie , facet value selections that lead to queries with the empty answer ) . In conventional faceted search applications , the detection of such dead ends is data driven , in the sense that the interface does not display facet values for which no document exists . Axioms provide an alternative , declarative , way to detect dead ends during faceted search , eg , by exploiting axioms expressing disjointness between classes of objects .
SemFacet is available as a Web service [ 1 ] and runs on a machine with 1vCPU , 4Gb of memory , and 20Gb of disk space . Although we have not formally evaluated our system , preliminary experiments show typical response time comparable with well known conventional faceted search systems .
3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] SemFacet : Semantic Faceted Search Project . http :
//wwwcsoxacuk/isg/projects/SemFacet/
[ 2 ] T . Berners Lee and et al . Tabulator redux : Browsing and writing linked data . In LDOW , 2008 .
[ 3 ] S . Buschbeck and et al . A demonstrator for parallel faceted browsing . In EKAW’12 , 2012 .
[ 4 ] E . Clarkson , S . B . Navathe , and J . D . Foley . Generalized formal models for faceted user interfaces . In JCDL’09 .
[ 5 ] J . Diederich , W. Tilo Balke , and U . Thaden . Demonstrating the semantic growbag : automatically creating topic facets for FacetedDBLP . In JCDL , page 505 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] DTunkelang Faceted Search . Morgan & Claypool Pubs’09 [ 7 ] G . H . L . Fletcher and et al . Towards a theory of search [ 8 ] B.Cuenca Grau , E.Kharlamov , Š.Marciuška , D.Zheleznya− queries . ACM Trans . Database Syst . , 35(4):28 , 2010 . kov , M.Arenas , and EJimenez Ruiz Semfacet : Semantic faceted search over yago . In WWW ( Companion Volume)’13 .
[ 9 ] R . Hahn and et al . Faceted wikipedia search . In BIS , 2010 . [ 10 ] M . Hildebrand , J . van Ossenbruggen , and L . Hardman .
/facet : A browser for heterogeneous semantic web repositories . In ISWC’09 .
[ 11 ] D . Huynh and et al . Piggy bank : Experience the semantic web inside your web browser . J . Web Sem . , 2007 . [ 12 ] David F . Huynh and David R . Karger . Parallax and companion : Set based browsing for the data web . wwwdavidhuynhnet
[ 13 ] E . Hyvönen , S . Saarela , and K . Viljanen . Ontogator :
Combining view and ontology based search with semantic browsing . In XML Finland , 2003 .
[ 14 ] A . Jameson . How can we support multifocal exploration of semantic data ? wwwimashleedsacuk/event/keynotehtml [ 15 ] G . Kobilarov and I . Dickinson . Humboldt : Exploring linked data . In LDOW’08 .
[ 16 ] E . Oren , R . Delbru , and S . Decker . Extending faceted navigation for rdf data . In ISWC , 2006 .
[ 17 ] Kenneth A . Ross and Angel Janevski . Querying faceted databases . In SWDB , pages 199–218 , 2004 .
[ 18 ] M . C . Schraefel and et al . The evolving mSpace platform : leveraging the Semantic Web on the trail of the memex . In Hypertext , 2005 .
[ 19 ] F . M . Suchanek , G . Kasneci , and G . Weikum . Yago : A Core of Semantic Knowledge . In WWW 2007 .
Figure 1 : Architecture of SemFacet itations of faceted search systems [ 2 , 3 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 , 16 , 18 ] . Although several RDF based faceted search systems have been developed , there is a lack of rigorous understanding of the underlying data and query models . We aim at providing solid foundations to semantic faceted search—the extension of the faceted search paradigm with Semantic Web technologies . RDF was designed as a language for the representation of loosely structured metadata , and it provides the required flexibility to semantically link different documents in arbitrary ways . OWL 2 can be used to provide rich domain knowledge on top of faceted metadata : OWL 2 axioms can capture hierarchical facets , and complex dependencies between facets in a declarative and semantically unambiguous way ( eg , business hotels cannot be 2 star , every 5 star hotels has a restaurant etc ) Finally , faceted queries can be captured by SPARQL 1.1 , which provides well understood semantics , computational properties , and powerful for query processing . Also , Semantic Web technologies provide important additional benefits . First of all , semantic facets and faceted query interfaces can be automatically generated from RDF and OWL 2 ontologies . Then , OWL 2 axioms can be used to specify which facets and values to display at each step of query refinement , thus providing valuable guidance to users . These techniques are orthogonal and complementary to the facet ranking mechanisms .
OWL 2 can also be used to simplify the annotation of documents with faceted metadata and deal with sparse and incomplete annotations . Eg , annotating data items with hierarchical facets is cumbersome since data must contain a value for each level of the hierarchy ; in contrast , by representing hierarchies in OWL 2 , we only need annotations for the most specific relevant values since the remaining ones can be automatically derived . Finally , semantic facets give a mechanism to query semantically related data sources , and hence are a natural query paradigm for ontology enhanced linked data . We refer the reader to [ 1 , 8 ] for more details on our approach .
2 . THE SEMFACET SYSTEM
Our approach is general and can be used to provide faceted search over any RDF and OWL 2 ontology . To illustrate its potential in practice and assess the feasibility of our techniques , we implemented a prototypical faceted search system , called SemFacet ( see [ 1 , 8 ] for details ) , on top of ( a fragment of ) Yago [ 19 ] ontology and DBpedia containing around 15 million triples altogether .
A general architecture of SemFacet is in Figure 1 . The backend relies on Lucene for keyword based search and RDFox , a massively parallel in memory RDF triple store , for storing RDF triples , performing reasoning , and answering queries . SemFacet is implemented in such a way that both Lucene and RDFox can be substituted with any other software that provide the same functionality . The front end of SemFacet , by relying on nesting of conventional facets , allows users to formulate tree shaped SPARQL queries over RDF and OWL 2 . The process of constructing queries is ( see [ 8 ] for details ) : the first step is to provide a set of keywords , which leads to a set of initial answers and initial facets . Query refinement is then an iterative process , where users can ei
Faceted Query InterfaceAnswers as SnippetsPresentationLayerApplicationLayer DataLayerFacet GeneratorQueryConverterSnippet GeneratorYagoDBpediaRDFoxLuceneKeyword Based SearchInverted Index on DBpediaAbstracts220
