Incorporating Phrase level Sentiment Analysis on Textual
Reviews for Personalized Recommendation
Yongfeng Zhang , Min Zhang , Yiqun Liu , Shaoping Ma
State Key Laboratory of Intelligent Technology and Systems zhangyf07@gmail.com , {z m,yiqunliu,msp}@tsinghuaeducn
Department of Computer Science and Technology
Tsinghua University , Beijing , 100084 , China
ABSTRACT Previous research on Recommender Systems ( RS ) , especially the continuously popular approach of Collaborative Filtering ( CF ) , has been mostly focusing on the information resource of explicit user numerical ratings or implicit ( still numerical ) feedbacks . However , the ever growing availability of textual user reviews has become an important information resource , where a wealth of explicit product attributes/features and user attitudes/sentiments are expressed therein . This information rich resource of textual reviews have clearly exhibited brand new approaches to solving many of the important problems that have been perplexing the research community for years , such as the paradox of cold start , the explanation of recommendation , and the automatic generation of user or item profiles . However , it is only recently that the fundamental importance of textual reviews has gained wide recognition , perhaps mainly because of the difficulty in formatting , structuring and analyzing the free texts . In this research , we stress the importance of incorporating textual reviews for recommendation through phrase level sentiment analysis , and further investigate the role that the texts play in various important recommendation tasks .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Filtering ; I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Processing ; H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Webbased services
Keywords Personalized Recommendation ; Collaborative Filtering ; Sentiment Analysis ; Text Mining
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The continuous prospering of various Web2.0 online applications such as e commerce and social networks has pushed users into the problem of information overwhelming [ 7 ] . The difficulty in accessing the desired online items further con tributed to the emerging of Personalized Recommender Systems ( PRS ) [ 12 ] , which attempt to make personalized and targeted item recommendations to users on various platforms and devices .
The research of personalized recommendation can be generally classified into Content based [ 20 ] , Collaborative Filtering ( CF) based [ 26 ] and Hybrid approaches [ 3 ] . The contentbased approach attempts to construct user and item profiles , and thus to make recommendations through some meticulously designed matching strategies [ 14 ] , while CF based approaches attempt to learn the preferences of users automatically by considering the historical choices of other users [ 12 ] . Hybrid recommender system , on the other hand , aims to combine the advantages of various strategies to make more informed recommendations .
The CF based approach has gained much attention from the research community , especially since the Netflix grand prize in the year of 2007 through 2009 [ 2 ] , because the CFapproaches , especially those based on Matrix Factorization ( MF ) techniques [ 28 , 8 ] on user item numerical rating matrices , achieved important success in the task of rating prediction [ 12 ] , and also exhibited great advantage in many other recommendation tasks [ 4 ] .
However , the application of CF on numerical ratings has come across many difficulties in face of some key problems like data sparsity [ 35 ] and the explainability of numerical ratings [ 29 , 32 ] . This further leads to some of the most concerned tasks in the research community , such as cold start recommendation [ 36 , 13 ] , explainability of the recommendations [ 32 ] , and automatic user/item profile generation .
The continuous growing of online textual user reviews , as another important information resource besides numerical ratings , has shed light on brand new solutions towards these issues . For example , although a user may have only made a single numerical rating towards a product in online shopping websites , she usually expresses more detailed opinions towards various product features/aspects in the corresponding piece of review text [ 33 ] . This is exposited in the sampled review in Figure 1 , where the user expressed positive
Figure 1 : A piece of sampled user review towards the iPhone 5s product extracted from Amazon.com opinions towards the features service and phone quality of the product , with the opinion words excellent and perfect , correspondingly , which composes into his overall numerical rating of five stars .
We see that the textual reviews contain both productoriented information ( ie product features ) and user oriented information ( ie user opinions ) , and they usually exist in the form of pairs ( user takes an opinion word to express his/her attitude towards a product feature ) . By conducting phraselevel sentiment analysis [ 15 , 10 , 5 , 31 ] on the textual reviews , we are able to extract these feature opinion word pairs , thus to gain more detailed information about the user ’s overall opinion towards a product ( the overall rating ) , which helps to understand the item characterises and user needs in a wider range of dimension , and to alleviate the problem of data sparsity in the scenario of cold start recommendation . The extracted features and opinions also help to make explanations about why or why not an item is recommended [ 32 ] , and to construct user ( or item ) profiles automatically by estimating their preferences towards the features .
In this research , we aim to stress the importance of making further use of textual reviews in recommender systems . We focus on leveraging phrase level sentiment analysis on the reviews to better solve the above mentioned cuttingedge research problems . In the following part , we review the related work in Section 2 , and exposit some of the research topics , current research progress and the upcoming research plans on each topic in Section 3 . Finally , we discuss , conclude and summarize the future directions in Section 4 .
2 . RELATED WORK
Collaborative Filtering ( CF) based techniques [ 26 ] have achieved great success in personalized recommender systems [ 12 ] due to their ability to take advantage of the wisdom of crowds , especially in the task of numerical rating prediction . With the remarkable performance on prediction accuracy , the Matrix Factorization ( MF ) [ 28 ] approaches have gained great popularity in both research community and the industry . Some of the commonly used matrix factorization algorithms include Singular Value Decomposition ( SVD ) [ 1 , 24 ] , Non negative Matrix Factorization ( NMF ) [ 9 ] , Probabilistic Matrix Factorization ( PMF ) [ 23 , 22 ] and Max Margin Matrix Factorization ( MMMF ) [ 25 , 21 ] .
However , the ratings made by each each is usually far less than the large volume of products in a typical system , which implies that the user item rating matrices that CF algorithms attempt to tackle with are usually very sparse [ 35 ] , as exampled in Figure 2 , which shows the scattered small communities corresponding to the sparse submatrices on the Yelp rating dataset [ 35 ] . Besides , new users and items are continuously added to the online systems , which further worsens the sparsity [ 34 ] . All these factors lead to the important cold start problem in recommender systems , where it is difficult to estimate the preferences or make recombinations to a user who rated only a few of the items [ 36 , 13 ] .
Fortunately , the ever growing availability of textual reviews has shed light on new approaches to alleviate the cold start problem . The product features and user opinions included in the textual reviews can be extracted , formatted and summarized through Sentiment Analysis [ 11 , 18 ] techniques . One of the core tasks in sentiment analysis is to determine the sentiment orientations that users express in reviews , sentences or on specific product features , corre
( a ) Yelp dataset Matrix
( b ) Yelp dataset Graph
Figure 2 : Structures of Yelp dataset . In the left is the exampled structure of the rating matrix , and in the right is the real structure of the scattered blocks . sponding to review(document) level [ 19 ] , sentence level [ 30 , 17 ] and phrase level [ 31 , 15 , 5 ] sentiment analysis .
Review and sentence level sentiment analysis attempt to label a review or sentence as one of some predefined sentiment polarities , which are typically positive , negative and sometimes neutral [ 11 ] . Phrase level sentiment analysis aims to analyze the sentiment expressed by users in a finer grained granularity . It considers the sentiment expressed on specific product features or aspects [ 6 ] . One of the most important tasks in phrase level sentiment analysis is the construction of Sentiment Lexicon [ 27 , 10 , 5 , 15 ] , which is to extract featureopinion word pairs and their corresponding sentiment polarities from these opinion rich user generated free texts .
In [ 16 ] , McAuley et al leveraged topic modelling to help extract the hidden topics from user reviews , thus to help improve the rating prediction accuracy . Textual reviews also help to construct intuitional explanations about why an item is recommended against the others . In [ 32 ] , Zhang et al proposed a feature level explainable recommendation strategy where the system persuades a user by telling him about his previously concerned product features in historical reviews . As an integration of content and CF based recommendation strategies , the hybrid recommendation techniques [ 3 ] have achieved state of the art performance in real world applications [ 12 ] . However , the manual construction of user and item profiles requires a vast amount of domain knowledge , which is expensive and time consuming [ 20 , 14 ] . Phraselevel sentiment analysis on textual reviews makes it possible to conduct automatic profile construction , by analyzing and structuring the reviews corresponding to a target user or product . In this work , we exposit the promising potentialities that textual reviews bring into recommender systems , state our current research achievements on the related topics , and pose some of the future research directions .
3 . RESEARCH TOPICS
3.1 Cold Start Recommendation
In CF based recommendation algorithms , one of the most fundamental causes of cold start comes from the absence of purchasing or rating information of new users or items . Although various CF techniques attempt to construct meticulously designed algorithms to estimate user preferences from a small number of ratings [ 13 , 36 ] , the performance remains limited as we know little about a user philosophically .
For example , many a user ( about 49 % ) in the commonly used Yelp rating dataset1 made only a single numerical rating , which makes it difficult to estimate his/her preference in a latent factorization space [ 36 ] . However , the corresponding piece of textual review plays a role of the user ’s explanation towards his/her rating , which may contain the user ’s opinions towards several features of the product that composes into his final rating . This information source could have been well used to tackle with the cold start problem .
This procedure is exposited in Figure 4 . We first integrate all the textual reviews in a product domain ( mobile phone domain in this example ) to construct a review corpus . By conducting phrase level sentiment analysis on this corpus , a sentiment lexicon [ 27 , 10 , 5 , 15 ] is constructed , which includes the product feature words ( eg screen , battery , price ) extracted from user reviews .
Next , we analyze the review(s ) corresponding to each targeted user by extracting the features that he/she concerns . It is important to point out that this procedure can be conducted even though the user made only a single review , because there may also exist a bunch of mentioned features in the review text . Finally , the recommended items can be provided by selecting those products that perform well on those features that the user concerns , and the product performance on each feature can also be estimated from the reviews made by users towards that product . 3.2 Recommendation Explanation
An important problem of traditional CF based recommendation algorithm in real world application is the difficulty to explain the recommendation results . This is partially because of the fact that we do not know how a user composed his opinions from the many aspects into a single and simple numerical rating , and that CF algorithms ( especially those based on matrix factorization techniques ) only attempt to estimate these ratings in a latent ( unknown ) factorization space . These Latent Factor Models ( LFM ) makes it even more difficult to make the recommendations explainable , although the algorithm may achieve satisfactory rating prediction accuracies [ 29 ] .
However , the existence of textual user reviews , as exposited in the previous section , provides a brand new information resource to help understand the user preferences and specific needs . By extracting the frequently mentioned product features from a user ’s historical reviews , we are able to get to know the product aspects that he/she concerns .
Different users may care about different produce features when making purchasing decisions . For example , a user may choose a mobile phone product given its large screen and good graphics performance , while another may make the same choice while considering its nice product design , although they may well give the same numerical rating of five stars . In many similar cases , the numerical ratings are insufficient to distinguish the preferences of different users , but the textual reviews tell us why a user made such a choice .
Preliminary studies on this research topics have been published in our paper [ 32 ] , which attempts to improve the rating prediction accuracy and at the same time construct intuitional recommendation explanations . We will further investigate the explanations constructed from textual reviews by considering different explanation forms like product tags and word clouds , etc . , as well as the scrutability , effective
1http://wwwyelpcom/dataset_challenge
Figure 4 : The product feature set of a domain ( eg mobile phone ) is extracted from a review corpus . The preference/profile of a user/item can be constructed by analyzing the corresponding review(s ) of the user/item , thus to make cold start recommendations when the ratings of a user is limited . ness and efficiency of explanations in recommendation . We will also attempt to bridge up explanations and its application in cold start recommendation scenarios in the following research tasks .
3.3 Automatic Profile Generation
The construction of accurate user/item profiles is the key factor in content based recommendation , and they help to make more informed recommendations in hybrid recommender systems [ 3 ] . However , the profile construction process is time consuming , and usually requires the existence of domain knowledge , which is expensive in real world scenarios . However , the textual reviews in a specific product domain naturally serve as a kind of domain dependent information , and it is possible to extract the user generated domain knowledge with the help of the wisdom of crowds .
This can be intuitionally exposited in Figure 5 . We first extract all the matched product features and their accompanying opinion words from each piece of review , and estimate the appropriate score that the user expressed towards each of the features , by considering the sentiment polarities of the opinion words .
Figure 5 : An example of user item review matrix and automatic profile extraction . Each shaded block is a review made by a user towards an item ; the entries included in the review are extracted , and further transformed to feature scores while considering the negation words . The features together with the user opinions extracted from the set of reviews corresponding to a user/item are further aggregated to generate a profile .
Review  Corpus  Screen  Earphone  Ba4ery  OS  Memory  Price  Color  Service  Brand  Recommend  Sen<ment  Lexicon  Users  pay  a4en<on  to  different  features  Items  perform  well  on  different  features  Star  Ra’ng :  4  stars  Review  Text :  Screen  is  perfect ,  but  earphone  is  not  that  good .  (screen ,  perfect ,  1 )  [normal ]  (earphone ,  good ,  1 )  [reversed ]  (screen ,  1 ) ,  (earphone ,   ­‐1 )   Figure 3 : Automatic product profile construction and comparison . The word cloud based profile displays the Feature Opinion word pairs extracted from the product ’s corresponding reviews , where the green ones are positive comments and blue ones are negative , giving an intuitional and first sight view of the pros and cons of each product . The bar chart based profiles allow the users to examine the detailed scores and reviews on each specific product feature . This demo can be visited at http://mobilethuirorg
After that , a simple and direct approach of profile generation for a user is to take all of his/her reviews and calculate the frequency of each feature therein , which intuitionally serve as an indicator of the extent that a user cares about a feature . Symmetrically , we can also consider all the reviews corresponding to a product , and integrate the opinions from different users to estimate its performance on each product feature , thus to construct the product profiles .
The product profiles can be displayed in different forms to help users better understand the pros and cons of a product , or to compare the profiles of two products so as to make more informed purchasing decisions . The reader might refer to our prototype demo systems on smart TV2 and mobile phone3 products , and this is also exampled in Figure 3 , which displays and compares the profiles of two mobile phones , in the forms of both word cloud and bar charts .
Apart from exhibiting the profiles to users for product comparison , the user and product profiles can also be easily used for content based or hybrid recommendation , because they model the users and items in the same and intuitional feature space , thus , for example , it would be very easy to calculate the similarity between two users , two products , or even a user and a product . We will further investigate the application of automatic profiling in personalized recommendation in the following work .
2http://tvthuirorg 3http://mobilethuirorg
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND RESEARCH PLAN In this research proposal , we attempt to incorporate textual user reviews to tackle with some of the most cuttingedge topics in the research of personalized recommender systems . We particularly focus on the utilization of phrase level sentient analysis technique to format , structure and summarize the free text reviews , so as to take feature level advantages of this information rich resource .
We argue that the existence of textual reviews is of fundamental importance to personalized recommendation , even compared with the previously mostly concerned numerical ratings . However , the textual reviews have mostly been ignored for years in the previous research , perhaps due to the tremendous prosperity of collaborative filtering techniques based on user ratings . In the following work , we will continue to investigate the great potential of leveraging textual reviews in solving the problems of cold start recommendation , recommendation explanation and automatic profile generation for hybrid recommender systems .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to sincerely thank my supervisors Prof . Min Zhang , Yiqun Liu , Shaoping Ma and Prof . Yi Zhang from UCSC , as well as Prof . Tat Seng Chua and Min Yen Kan from NUS for their continuous mentoring and support during my research career . This work was supported by TsinghuaSamsung Joint Lab , under the Chinese Natural Science Foun dation ( 61073071 ) and National High Technology Research and Development ( 863 ) Program ( 2011AA01A205 ) . Part of the work was conducted at the Tsinghua NUS NExT Search Center supported by the Singapore National Research Foundation & Interactive Digital Media R&D Program Office , MDA under research grant ( WBS:R 252 300 001 490 ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . Abdi . Singular value decomposition ( svd ) and generalized singular value decomposition ( gsvd ) . Ency . of Measu . and Stat . , pages 907–912 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] J . Bennett and S . Lanning . The Netflix Prize . KDD
Cup and Workshop , 2007 .
[ 3 ] R . Burke . Hybrid Recommender Systems : Survey and
Experiments . User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction , 12(4):331–370 , 2002 .
[ 4 ] P . Cremonesi , Y . Koren , and R . Turrin . Performance of recommender algorithms on top n recommendation tasks . RecSys , 2010 .
[ 5 ] X . Ding , B . Liu , and P . S . Yu . A Holistic
Lexicon Based Approach to Opinion Mining . WSDM , pages 231–239 , 2008 .
[ 6 ] M . Hu and B . Liu . Mining and Summarizing
Customer Reviews . KDD , pages 168–177 , 2004 .
[ 7 ] J . A . Konstan . Introduction to recommender systems :
Algorithms and Evaluation . ACM Transactions on Information Systems ( TOIS ) , 22(1):1–4 , 2004 .
[ 8 ] Y . Koren , R . Bell , et al . Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems . Computer , 2009 .
[ 9 ] D . D . Lee and H . S . Seung . Algorithms for
Non negative Matrix Factorization . NIPS , pages 556–562 , 2001 .
[ 10 ] B . Liu , M . Hu , and J . Cheng . Opinion Observer : Analyzing and Comparing Opinions on the Web . WWW , pages 342–351 , 2005 .
[ 11 ] B . Liu and L . Zhang . A Survey of Opinion Mining and
Sentiment Analysis . Jour . Mining Text Data , pages 415–463 , 2012 .
[ 12 ] J . Liu , M . Chen , J . Chen , et al . Recent advances in personal recommender systems . International Journal of Information and Systems Sciences , 5(2):230–247 , 2009 .
[ 13 ] N . Liu , X . Meng , and C . Liu . Wisdom of the Better
Few : Cold Start Recommendation via Representative based Rating Elicitation . RecSys , pages 37–44 , 2011 .
[ 14 ] P . Lops , M . de Gemmis , and G . Semeraro .
Content based recommender systems : State of the art and trends . Recommender Systems Handbook , pages 73–105 , 2011 .
[ 15 ] Y . Lu , M . Castellanos , U . Dayal , and C . Zhai .
Automatic Construction of a Context Aware Sentiment Lexicon : An Optimization Approach . WWW , pages 347–356 , 2011 .
[ 16 ] J . McAuley and J . Leskovec . Hidden Factors and
Hidden Topics : Understanding Rating Dimensions with Review Text . RecSys , pages 165–172 , 2013 .
[ 17 ] T . Nakagawa , K . Inui , and S . Kurohashi . Dependency Tree based Sentiment Classification using CRFs with Hidden Variables . NAACL , 2010 .
[ 18 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion Mining and Sentiment
Analysis . Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval , 2(1 2):1–135 , 2008 .
[ 19 ] B . Pang , L . Lee , and S . Vaithyanathan . Thumbs up ?
Sentiment Classification using Machine Learning Techniques . EMNLP , pages 79–86 , 2002 .
[ 20 ] M . J . Pazzani and D . Billsus . Content based recommendation systems . Adaptive Web LNCS , 2007 .
[ 21 ] J . Rennie et al . Fast maximum margin matrix factorization for collaborative prediction . ICML , 2005 . [ 22 ] R . Salakhutdinov and A . Mnih . Bayesian probabilistic matrix factorization using markov chain monte carlo . ICML , 2008 .
[ 23 ] R . Salakhutdinov and A . Mnih . Probabilistic matrix factorization . NIPS , 2008 .
[ 24 ] N . Srebro and T . Jaakkola . Weighted low rank approximations . ICML , 2003 .
[ 25 ] N . Srebro , J . Rennie , and T . S . Jaakkola .
Maximum margin matrix factorization . NIPS , 2005 .
[ 26 ] X . Su and T . Khoshgoftaar . A survey of collaborative filtering techniques . Advances in AI . , 2009 .
[ 27 ] M . Taboada , J . Brooke , M . Tofiloski , K . Voll , and
M . Stede . Lexicon Based Methods for Sentiment Analysis . Computational Linguastics , 37(2 ) , 2011 .
[ 28 ] G . Takacs , I . Pilaszy , B . Nemeth , and D . Tikk .
Investigation of various matrix factorization methods for large recommender systems . ICDM , 2008 .
[ 29 ] N . Tintarev and J . Masthoff . A Survey of
Explanations in Recommender Systems . ICDE , 2007 .
[ 30 ] J . Wiebe , T . Wilson , and C . Cardie . Annotating
Expressions of Opinions and Emotions in Language . Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC ) , 2005 . [ 31 ] T . Wilson , J . Wiebe , and P . Hoffmann . Recognizing
Contextual Polarity in Phrase Level Sentiment Analysis . EMNLP , pages 347–354 , 2005 .
[ 32 ] Y . Zhang , G . Lai , M . Zhang , Y . Zhang , Y . Liu , and
S . Ma . Explicit Factor Models for Explainable Recommendation based on Phrase level Sentiment Analysis . SIGIR , pages 83–92 , 2014 .
[ 33 ] Y . Zhang , H . Zhang , M . Zhang , Y . Liu , and S . Ma . Do
Users Rate or Review ? Boost Phrase level Sentiment Labeling with Review level Sentiment Classification . SIGIR , 2014 .
[ 34 ] Y . Zhang , M . Zhang , Y . Liu , S . Ma , and S . Feng .
Localized Matrix Factorization for Recommendation based on Matrix Block Diagonal Forms . WWW , 2013 .
[ 35 ] Y . Zhang , M . Zhang , Y . Zhang , Y . Liu , and S . Ma .
Understanding the Sparsity : Augmented Matrix Factorization with Sampled Constraints on Unobservables . CIKM , 2014 .
[ 36 ] K . Zhou , S H Yang , and H . Zha . Functional Matrix
Factorizations for Cold Start Recommendation . SIGIR , pages 315–324 , 2011 .
