2010 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining
A System for Mining Temporal Physiological Data Streams for Advanced Prognostic
Decision Support
Jimeng Sun , Daby Sow , Jianying Hu , Shahram Ebadollahi
IBM TJ Watson Research Center , New York
Abstract—We present a mining system that can predict the future health status of the patient using the temporal trajectories of health status of a set of similar patients . The main novelties of this system are its use of stream processing technology for handling the incoming physiological time series data and incorporating domain knowledge in learning the similarity metric between patients represented by their temporal data .
The proposed approach and system were tested using the MIMIC II database , which consists of physiological waveforms , and accompanying clinical data obtained for ICU patients . The study was carried out on 1500 patients from this database . In the experiments we report the efficiency and throughput of the stream processing unit for feature extraction , the effectiveness of the supervised similarity measure both in the context of classification and retrieval tasks compared to unsupervised approaches , and the accuracy of the temporal projections of the patient data .
Keywords Patient similarity , Physiological streams
I . INTRODUCTION
Prognosis , which is predicting the patient ’s outcome , is one of the key components of care delivery and patient management [ 15 ] , [ 11 ] . A good source for deriving such prognostic information are other patients that display similar behaviors in their health data . Healthcare centers and clinics are replete with patients’ data such as the physiological time series that are routinely collected in Intensive Care Units for monitoring patients . In the Intensive Care Unit ( ICU ) settings , one can use stream mining systems to detect certain events such as AHE when they occur . However , by that time , it can be already too late for physicians to react . To address this challenge , we develop a predictive stream mining system in the context of monitoring patients in the ICU . The goal is to predict the Key Patient Indicators ( KPIs).Our approach is to leverage both streams of the query patient and the exist patterns and data from similar patients in order to have more accurate prediction . The contributions from the mining method perspective are :
1 ) Devising similarity measures that can reflect the clinical proximity among patients by taking into account the expert feedback ;
2 ) Alignment of patients’ temporal characteristics to be amenable to clinically sound comparison ;
3 ) Projecting patients data into the future based on the characteristics of the data in the similar patient cohort ;
4 ) Handling missing values in longitudinal patient data . The proposed approach and system were tested using the MIMIC II database , which consists of physiological waveforms , and accompanying clinical data obtained for ICU patients [ 1 ] . The study was carried out on 1500 patients from this database , categorized into two groups based on different clinical conditions ( AHE vs . No AHE ) . In the experiments we report the efficiency and throughput of the stream processing unit for feature extraction , the effectiveness of the supervised similarity measure both in the context of classification and retrieval tasks compared to unsupervised approaches , and the accuracy of the temporal projections of the patient data .
II . RELATED WORK
Physiological Time Series Retrieval : The most similar and relevant work to ours is the one reported by Saeed and Mark [ 13 ] , where they employed a multi resolution description scheme for physiological temporal ICU data and used unsupervised similarity metrics for retrieving patients based on their physiological data . The main goal of that work was to use patient ’s data prior to hemodynamic deterioration to indicate if an episode of severe hypertension was likely to happen , where a K Nearest Neighbor algorithm was used to predict the occurrence of the event . Our approach is not only capable of producing such kinds of classifications , but also can go one step further and provide the trajectory of the patient physiological data in the future time intervals .
Stream Processing : The use of stream computing systems on physiological data streams has been reported in the literature by several research groups . Recently Blount et al . [ 4 ] have reported on the deployment of a stream computing platform for the monitoring of premature infants in a neonatal intensive care unit . The scope of that work is to provide care givers with a powerful system capable of alerting them early when medically significant events are detected . To illustrate this system , they have implemented an application capable of detecting sepsis early . In another publication , Sow et al . [ 14 ] have reported on the use of a similar platform capable of not only analyzing data streams in real time but also extracting from these streams knowledge that can be fed back on the real time analysis . Others have also reported on the use of similar technologies to detect medically significant events [ 5 ] , [ 3 ] . Our work
1550 4786/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 101109/ICDM2010102
1061 complements these systems with patient similarity measures and prognosis capabilities .
Supervised Metric Learning : Supervised metric learning has been studied in the past [ 18 ] , [ 19 ] , [ 9 ] . The goal has been to learn a distance metric such that samples in the same class are close and those in different classes are far away . The common treatment is to add constraints and regularization terms into the objective function and then to solve it using optimization method . To avoid a large number of constraints , in this paper we model this problem as trace ratio problem which can be solved effectively ( similar to [ 16] ) .
III . PHYSIOLOGICAL STREAM PROCESSING
In modern ICUs , several streams of physiological data are collected by bed side monitors , ranging from systolic , diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure ( ABP ) , pulse oximeter data , heart rate as well as ECG waves . Formally , we represent all these physiological streams with the following notation :
Definition 1 : Physiological streams are represented as a set of matrices P1 , P2 , , Pn , where n is the number of m×ti ( 1 ≤ i ≤ n ) contains the patients . The matrix Pi ∈ R sensor measurements for i th patient . m is the number of sensor attributes , ti denotes the length in discrete time of each the sensor measurements for patient i . Essentially , each row of Pi is a time series representing sensor measurements for a given sensor . Given the i th patient stream Pi , Pi(j , k ) represents the measure of sensor j at time k . Note that the number of timestamp ti can vary among patients , because each patient may have a different length of stay or be in a different stage of the treatment . As more measurements come in , ti can be increasing as well . To avoid notation clutter , we omit the patient subscript i when there is no ambiguity .
A . Event Detection
ICU monitoring devices produce large amounts of patient physiological streams . To cope with this high rate of data , we use a state of the art stream computing platform [ 2 ] to detect medically significant events , such as AHE . We use the occurrence of these events to attach labels in real time to the incoming data streams . All events are then persisted for the training of similarity metrics performed by the supervised metric leaning module . Taking advantage of the efficient window operators provided by the stream processing system , we use sliding windows to detect the occurrence of specific events in portion of the matrices Pi . the stream P ∈ Definition 2 : Sliding window over m×n is denoted as S(P , t , w , s ) ∈ R mw where t is the index of the window ( t = 1 , 2 , . . . ) , w is the window size , and s is the step size that is the shifting offset between two consecutive windows t and t + 1 .
R
To avoid notation clutter , we use S(P , t ) to represent the t th window on stream P .
We use a simple rule , as indicated by PhysioNet [ 10 ] , to detect AHE events . Note that detecting the events is just the initial step of our system , which is not the main focus of the work . As we will describe the later , the ultimate goal of our system is to predict such events before it happens .
B . Missing Data Handling
Missing data segments are very common in physiological streams for various reasons : sensor malfunction , sensor being off occasionally , or variations in the sampling rate . The presence of missing values could have negative impact on the subsequent processing and analysis such as feature extraction and similarity measure . To alleviate this problem , we developed different schemes to impute the missing values . Window based imputation : If a small part of sensor j measurements is missing at time x , we impute the missing values using the mean sensor j measures within the sliding window centered around time x . Correlation based imputation : If missing value occurs consecutively over a long period of time , simple window based method will perform poorly . In this case , we take advantage of the correlations among multiple sensors to fill in the missing values . Essentially , linear regression models are generated and used to estimate missing values from one sensor using available measurements in the same period of time from other sensors .
C . Feature Extraction
Features are computed using the sliding window operator , in which every window S(P , t ) generates a feature vector xt . In the current system , we use the top F wavelet coefficients as the features . Essentially , all the raw physiological stream from every patient pi are converted into feature vectors , one for each sliding window . The stream processing results are then stored into a database for offline and online analyses .
IV . OFFLINE DATA ANALYSIS
Offline data analysis involves two components : metric learning in the context of patient similarity measure , and subsequent clustering to facilitate fast execution of on line analysis tasks .
When a physician looks for similar patients in a database , the similarity is often based not only on quantitative measurements such as lab results and sensor measurements , but also the physician ’s judgment of clinically relevant factors and what she deems to be clinically similar . To capture this clinically relevant notion of similarity , we need to learn a distance metric that can automatically adjust the importance of each numeric feature by leveraging the domain knowledge . We have developed a method called
1062
Locally Supervised Metric Learning(LSML ) to address this requirement .
A . Locally Supervised Metric Learning
Formally , quantitative measurements of a patient are represented by a N dimensional feature vector x . Examples of features are the mean and variance of the sensor measures , or Wavelet coefficients . The prior belief of physicians is captured as labels on some of the patients . With this formulation , our goal is to learn a generalized Mahalanobis distance between patient xi and patient xj defined as :
( xi − xj)T P(xi − xj ) dm(xi , xj ) =
( 1 ) where P ∈ R N×N is called the precision matrix . Matrix P is positive semi definite and is used to incorporate the correlations between different feature dimensions . The key is to learn the optimal P such that the resulting distance metric has the following properties :
• Within class compactness : patients of the same label
. are close together ;
• Between class scatterness : patients of different labels are far away from each other .
To formally measure these properties , we use two kinds of neighborhoods as defined in [ 17 ] : The homogeneous neighborhood of xi , denoted as N o i , is the k nearest patients of xi with the same label . The heterogeneous neighborhood of xi , denoted as N e i , is the k nearest patients of xi with different labels .
Based on these two neighborhoods , we define the local compactness of point xi as fi
Ci = m(xi , xj ) d2 and the local scatter ness of point xi as m(xi , xk ) d2
Si = i xj∈N o fi xk∈N e i
The discriminability of the distance metric dm is defined as
' '
' '
' i Ci' i Si i i i i
= xj∈N o xk∈N e
( xi − xj)T P(xi − xj ) ( xi − xk)T P(xi − xk )
J = ( 4 ) The goal is to find a P that minimizes J , which is equivalent to minimizing the local compactness and maximizing the local scatterness simultaneously . In contrast with linear discriminant analysis [ 8 ] , which seeks for a discriminant subspace in a global sense , the localized supervised metric aims to learn a distance metric with enhanced local discriminability . To minimize J , we formulate the problem as a trace ratio minimization problem [ 16 ] and use the decomposed Newtown ’s method to find the solution [ 12 ] .
Since P is a low rank positive semi definite matrix , we can decompose the precision matrix as P = WWT , where
W ∈ R N×d and d ≤ N . The distance metric can be rewritten as dm(xi , x ) = 'WT xi − WT xj' . Therefore , the distance metric is equivalent to euclidean distance over the low dimensional projection WT x .
V . ONLINE DATA ANALYSIS
The online data analysis components of the system provide support for retrieval of similar patients using the similarity metric learned during offline data analysis , and assessment of the query patient ’s prognosis based on the trajectories of retrieved similar patients . When a query patient with available observations up to a decision point is presented to the system , the stream processing components are first applied to extract features from an assessment window . The size of the assessment window is condition/disease specific , and can be either specified by an expert , or potentially learned using labeled data . The features are then quantized into the physio words defined in offline analysis , and used to retrieve a subset of reference patients with similar physioword distributions . These reference patients , along with the query patient , are then sent to the Temporal Alignment and Patient Prognosis modules as described below for further analysis .
A . Temporal Alignment
Temporal alignment is performed between the query patient and each reference patient to identify the window in the reference patient ’s history that best matches the query patient ’s assessment window .
In the current system temporal alignment is implemented through a sliding window approach , where the query patient ’s assessment window is “ slided ” against the reference patient and the position along the reference patient ’s temporal sequence that yields the smallest distance between the two windows ( computed using the metric learned during offline analysis phase ) is identified as the anchor point .
B . Patient Prognosis Analysis
Once the n reference patients are retrieved and properly aligned , the observations on these patients after the anchor point can be used to predict the prognosis ( future measurements ) of the query patient . One straightforward way to making the prediction would be to directly take the average of the post anchor observations from the reference patients . However , this is likely not to perform well , since each patient tends to have distinct characteristics and unique baseline measurements . We have instead developed a regression model to account for differences in patient characteristics as captured in the pre anchor/decision point observations . Let xi = {xi1 , xi2 , , xiw} represent measurements from one sensor for the reference patient i in the window preceding the anchor point , and y = {y1 , y2 , , yw} represent the measurements from the same sensor for the query patient
1063
( 2 )
( 3 )
RELATIVE ERROR RATE e FOR MISSING DATA IMPUTATION ON
DIFFERENT SENSORS WITH MISSING RATE=10 % .
Table I
Window based Correlation
Random Consecutive Window based
Correlation
Mean ABP
.0139 .0081 .014 .0078
HR .0032 .0017 .0032 .0014
SpO2 .0007 .0006 .0009 .0008
B . Missing Data Imputation
To evaluate the accuracy of missing data imputation process , we randomly extracted 1,000 2 hour windows of data without any missing values as the ground truth . We then simulated missing values as follows :
• Random : We set data to be missing at random with a missing rate x ;
• Consecutive : We randomly selected a starting point , the data to be missing for a consecutively and set N = x where window after the starting point , such that T T is the number of missing timestamps and N the total number of timestamps , and x the missing rate .
We tested two methods for missing value imputation : window based and correlation based methods as described in Section III B . To evaluate these methods , relative error rate e was used as the performance metric :
' e =
( xi − ˆxi)2 ' i x2 i
( 7 )
Figure 2 illustrates the relative error rate vs . the missing rate x on the Heart Rate ( HR ) sensor . As shown in Figure 2 , the relative error rate is very low across a wide range of missing rates ( from 10 % to 80% ) . The relative error rate increases slightly as the missing rate increases for both time based and correlation based imputation methods . The correlation based method is consistently better than the simple window based method , because of the strong correlation across multiple sensor streams for the same patients . Finally , the relative error rate is lower for randomly missing data in Figure 2(a ) than for consecutively missing data in ( b ) , which confirms our intuition . Nevertheless , our method achieves a low error rate in both cases .
Table I shows the relative error rates at 10 % missing rate across all sensor measurements . Here again , the relative error rates are very low in general , demonstrating the effectiveness of our methods . Further more , correlation based imputation consistently outperforms window based method because it is able to leverage the correlation across multiple sensors .
C . Similarity Measure
Setup : To evaluate the supervised metric learning scheme , we partitioned 1500 patients into two groups H or C . Those in group H ( 590 patients ) experienced Acute Hypotensive Episode ( AHE ) events , whereas those in group C ( 910 patients ) did not experience any AHE . The domain
1064
Figure 1 . linearly with the number of concurrent patients .
Stream processing evaluation : Performance throughput scales in the window preceding the decision point . The regression model takes the form : y = β0 + β1xi + β2x2 + + βnxn ,
( 5 ) where parameters βi , i = 0 , 1 , n are solved by the least squares estimator . Under the assumption that relationship between the reference patients and the query patient remains the same before and after the decision/anchor point , the predicted measurements for the query patient in the window succeeding decision point , ¯y , can be computed by plugging on the right hand side the observed measurements from the reference patients in the window succeeding anchor point , ¯xi , i = 1 , , n . In other words :
¯y = β0 + β1¯xi + β2¯x2 + + βn¯xn .
( 6 )
VI . EXPERIMENTS
Experiments were carried out using physiological data for 1500 patients downloaded from the MMIC II database [ 1 ] . The physiological streams for each patient include mean ABP measure , systolic ABP , diastolic ABP , Sp02 and heart rate measurements . Every sensor is sampled at 1 minute intervals . Among the 1500 patients , 590 patients experienced at least one occurrence of Acute Hypotensive Episode ( AHE ) , and 910 patients did not .
A . Stream Processing Performance
To evaluate the stream processing capability , we tested the performance of the underlying stream computing system to analyze data for various numbers of patients . These tests were performed on a blade server with 8 processors ( Intel(R ) Xeon(R ) CPU X5365 ) operating at 3 GHz , with a total of 16GB of RAM and a 1GB/s Ethernet card . The test case used in these experiments consisted of an implementation of the event detection algorithm described in Section III A . Data for each patient was replayed at 1Hz . Figure 1 plots the average throughput in bytes per second streaming through the system as a function of the number of concurrent patients . This relationship is linear , proving that this system scales very well for this task .
( a ) Randomly Missing data
( b ) Consecutively Missing Data
Figure 2 . Missing data imputation evaluation : x axis is the missing rate ; y axis is the relative error rate e knowledge incorporated by the supervised learning scheme in this case is simply that the physiological streams of a patient with eminent AHE should be very similar to those of a known AHE patient in the period leading to AHE onset , while at the same time very different from those of a patient with no AHE .
For each patient in group H , we extracted a 2 hour window centered around a random timestamp T0 . For each patient in group H , we extracted a 2 hour window centered around T0 , such that in the hour after T0 , the patient experienced AHE . We used 80 % of those patients for training and 20 % for testing .
Methods of comparison : We treat T0 as the decision point and evaluate the effectiveness of our similarity measure by its ability to predict the onset of AHE in the one hour window after T0 base on the data before T0 . As one of the baselines , we compare our method against the winning method in the 10th Annual PhysioNet/Computers in Cardiology Challenge , as presented in [ 6 ] , referred to as Challenge09 below . Since in that method only the mean ABP stream was used , we also used only that stream in the similarity measure evaluation to ensure a fair comparison . In our method , the wavelet coefficients of the 1 hour window from mean ABP were computed . We used Daubechies4 Wavelet [ 7 ] and kept the top 10 coefficients as a feature vector . We thus obtained 1500 m dimensional feature vectors where m= 10 . We then compared our method , LSML , against 3 baseline methods as described below :
• Challenge09 uses Euclidean distance of the variance of
CLASSIFICATION AND RETRIEVAL ACCURACY
Table II
Classification ( accuracy ) Retrieval ( precision@10 )
Challenge09
0.4982 0.5230
PCA 0.6325 0.6902
LDA 0.7739 0.7314
LSML 0.8551 0.7998 the mean ABP as suggested in [ 6 ] ;
• PCA uses Euclidean distance over low dimensional points after principal component analysis ( PCA ) ( an unsupervised metric learning algorithm ) ;
• LDA uses Euclidean distance over low dimensional points after linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) ( a global supervised metric learning algorithm ) ;
• LSML using the localized supervised metric learning method described in section IV A . Classification and Retrieval Performance : The performance metrics we used include k NN classification error rate and precision@10 retrieval results . The precision@10 of a query point is computed by retrieving 10 nearest points with a specific distance metric and then computing the percentage of those retrieved points having the same label as the query patient .
Since the dimensionality of LDA is constrained by the number of classes , LDA can only give ( up to ) 2 dimensional representation in our dataset . To have a fair comparison , we restricted both PCA and LSML to also project data into 2dimensional space .
Table II shows both classification results in accuracy and retrieval results in precision@10 using 5 NN classifier . We observe that the supervised metric learning methods including LSML and LDA outperform both Challenge09 and unsupervised methods like PCA , which confirms the importance of leveraging label information into the distance metric . In addition , LSML performs even better than LDA , because LSML uses local distance metric whereas LDA only learns a global metric .
D . Patient Prognosis Analysis
Although the ability to predict the onset of an event is important , it is often even more important , while at the same time much more difficult , to predict the trajectories of patient condition over time . The latter is the goal of the prognosis analysis .
To evaluate the accuracy of our prognosis analysis module we used the same data as in the previous evaluation for similarity measure . Again , we used 80 % patients for training , and 20 % for testing . The objective was to predict the mean ABP value on a per minute basis for the hour after T0 for a query patient . More specifically , for each AHE patient , we set T0 as the timestamp when AHE occurs , and we use the 1 hour window before T0 as the query window .
Traditional approach for prognosis only uses current patient condition without systematic ways of leveraging other
1065
Figure 3 . Patient Prognosis Accuracy vs . prediction horizon . similar patients . To simulate traditional decision making , we used the following baseline methods :
• Mean value uses simply the mean of the measurements in the query window .
• AR builds an autoregression model to forecast values after T0 . We used AR(5 ) in our experiment .
[ 2 ] L . Amini , H . Andrade , R . Bhagwan , F . Eskesen , R . King , P . Selo , Y . Park , and C . Venkatramani . SPC : A distributed , scalable platform for data mining . In Workshop on Data Mining Standards , Services and Platforms , DM SSP , Philadelphia , PA , 2006 .
[ 3 ] A . Bar Or , D . Goddeau , J . Healey , L . Kontothanassis , B . Lo gan , A . Nelson , and J . Van Thong . In EMBC .
[ 4 ] M . Blount , M . Ebling , M . Eklund , A . James , C . McGregor ,
N . Percival , K . Smith , and D . Sow . In EMB .
[ 5 ] C M Chen , H . Agrawal , M . Cochinwala , and D . Rosenblut . Stream query processing for healthcare bio sensor applications . In ICDE , pages 791–794 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] X . Chen , D . Xu , G . Zhang , and R . Mukkamala . Forecasting acute hypotensive episodes in intensive care patients based on peripheral arterial blook pressure waveform . In Computers in Cardiology ( CinC ) , 2009 .
[ 7 ] I . Daubechies . Ten Lectures on Wavelets . SIAM , Philadelphia ,
1992 . the
[ 8 ] K . Fukunaga . Introduction to Statistical Pattern Recognition .
Academic Press , San Diego , California , 1990 .
Our proposed similarity based method as described in Section V B first retrieves k similar patients and their closest reference windows ; then builds a regression model between the query patient and k retrieved patients for prediction .
We use the same relative error rate defined in equation 7 . Figure 3 shows the prediction relative error rate increases as the prediction horizon increases . Our similarity based method outperforms significantly over both baselines , which confirms the benefit of retrieving similar patients to help assess the query patient ’s prognosis .
VII . CONCLUSION
We have described a data mining system capable of predicting the evolution of ICU patients’ physiological data streams . The system consists of two complementary components : stream processing and data mining . At the heart of the mining component is the application of a locally supervised patient similarity metric . This metric is learned from extracted feature vectors and corresponding label information , both computed in real time as physiological streaming data are produced by medical devices . Furthermore , given a query patient , we leverage this similarity metric to retrieve a cohort of similar patients . The data of the patients in this cohort is then used to project the query patient ’s data into the future using correlation based techniques .
We have tested our system on 1500 patients . Our method outperformed both LDA and PCA approaches in both classification and retrieval significantly .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] http://physionetorg/physiobank/database/mimic2db/
[ 9 ] J . Goldberger , S . Roweis , G . Hinton , and R . Salakhutdinov .
Neighborhood component analysis . In NIPS , 2005 .
[ 10 ] http://wwwphysionetorg/challenge/2009/
Physionet/computers in cardiology challenge 2009 : Predicting acute hypotensive episodes .
[ 11 ] M . G . M . Hunink and P . P . Glasziou . Decision Making in Helath and Medicine Integrating Evidence and Values . Cambridge University Press , 2006 .
[ 12 ] Y . Jia , F . Nie , and C . Zhang . Trace ratio problem revisited .
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks , 2009 .
[ 13 ] M . Saeed and R . Mark . A novel method for the efficient retrieval of similar multiparameter physiologic time series using wavelet based symbolic representations . In American Medical Informatics Association , 2006 .
[ 14 ] D . Sow , B . Alain , M . Blount , M . Ebling , and O . Verscheure . Analysis of physiologocal data streams in intensive care units . In 11th ACM SIGMM International Conference on Multimedia Information Retrieval , 2010 .
[ 15 ] H . C . Sox , M . A . Blatt , M . C . Higgins , and K . I . Marton . Medical Decision Making . American College of Physicians ( ACP ) , 2007 .
[ 16 ] F . Wang , J . Sun , T . Li , and N . Anerousis . Two heads better than one : Metric+active learning and its applications for it service classification . In ICDM , 2009 .
[ 17 ] F . Wang and C . Zhang . Feature extraction by maximizing the neighborhood margin . In CVPR , 2007 .
[ 18 ] E . P . Xing , A . Y . Ng , M . I . Jordan , and S . Russell . Distance metric learning , with application to clustering with sideinformation . In NIPS , 2002 .
[ 19 ] L . Yang . Distance metric learning : A comprehensive survey .
Technical report , Michgan State University , 2006 .
1066
