Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
Md . Tanvirul Islam , Kaiser Md . Nahiduzzaman , Why Yong Peng , and Golam Ashraf
National University of Singapore , Singapore 117417 tanvirulbd@gmail.com , kaisernahid@yahoo.com ,
{psywyp,gashraf}@nusedusg
ABSTRACT Character design is a key ingredient to the success of any comicbook , graphic novel , or animated feature . Artists typically use shape , size and proportion as the first design layer to express role , physicality and personality traits . In this paper , we propose a knowledge mining framework that extracts primitive shape features from finished art , and trains models with labeled metadata attributes . The applications are in shape based query of character databases as well as label based generation of basic shape scaffolds , providing an informed starting point for sketching new characters . It paves the way for more intelligent shape indexing of arbitrary well structured objects in image libraries . Furthermore , it provides an excellent tool for novices and junior artists to learn from the experts . We first describe a novel primitive based shape signature for annotating character body parts . We then use support vector machine to classify these characters using their body part ’s shape signature as features . The proposed data transformation is computationally light and yields compact storage . We compare the learning performance of our shape representation with a lowlevel point feature representation , with substantial improvement .
Keywords : Shape Signature , Perception Modeling , Humanoid Cartoons .
1 Introduction
Character design is a key ingredient to the success of any comic book , graphic novel , or animated feature . Recent advances in digital multimedia technologies have triggered widespread creation , consumption and distribution of digital character art in the form of videos , images , and textual descriptions . We view this large , unorganized , and distributed collection of digital humanoid character art on the internet , as a rich potential source for learning rules of good character design from the experts .
Though characters are remembered mostly for their roles in the story , several layers of visual detailing are employed to bring their roles to life . Starting with basic shape and proportion , artists create layers of skin tones , hair styles , attire , accessories , key postures , gait , action energy , mannerisms and facial expressions [ 1,2 ] . Furthermore , drawing styles may vary widely across cultures , mediums and entertainment genres . Thus , it may take years of learning and practice for novice artists to pick up the necessary skills to create impactful characterizations for a certain target audience . Every year thousands of characters are produced worldwide for the billion dollar markets in animated features and games [ 22 ] . While computers are used mostly for
P . Perner ( Ed. ) : ICDM 2010 , LNAI 6171 , pp . 606–616 , 2010 . © Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2010
Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
607 shape modelling/animation/rendering , conceptual character design still relies heavily on the skills and experience of the art department . Tools that could abstract character design rules from finished art would thus be really useful for this industry . It could also help hobbyists pick up better drawing skills .
In this paper , we focus on the basic shapes and body part proportions layer as it plays a vital role in design and perception [ 1,2 ] . Artists use shape scaffolding to previsualize the final form , using basic shapes to represent each component or part . Apart from establishing the volume and mass distribution of the figure , these shapes may also help portray a certain personality , as is widely seen in stylized cartoon drawings . For example , in Pixar ’s recent animated feature titled “ UP ” , the main protagonist had distinctively square features to highlight his “ cooped in ” life . The square features were amplified by contrasting with a large round nose , as well as distinctly rounded supporting characters .
In this paper , we propose a knowledge mining framework that extracts primitive shape features from finished art , and trains models with labeled metadata attributes with a goal of finding hidden association rules . We use a primitive shape based vector annotation system for feature extraction . We then use Support Vector Machines to classify the characters into various traits with high accuracy . We compare the learning performance our shape representation with a low level point feature representation , with substantial improvement . The proposed data transformation is computationally light and yields compact storage . We have used physicality metadata and a variety of finished 2D humanoid character art , with a uniform body structure , but with reasonable variation in size , shape and proportions . The strongest contribution in this paper is our novel shape representation that allows learning , synthesis and retrieval in an intuitive data space . This has great implication in knowledge mining , computer vision and creation of expert systems for assisting creative design .
2 Related Work
We compare our work with prominent work in the area of representation and learning applied to character shapes and motion . We differ from these papers on two counts : 1 ) Our shape representation is in a language that humans can easily visualize ; 2 ) It is easy to compute and can be efficiently hashed .
A variety of shape representation strategies have been used for learning and cognition of visual data . Edelmann and Intrator [ 4 ] proposed the use of semantic shape trees to represent well structured objects like the hammer and airplane . Their goal was to recognize object classes , starting bottom up with low level features . A drawback of this method is that it needs explicit modeling of the object grammar . Gal et al . [ 5 ] propose 2D histogram shape signature that combines two scalar functions defined on the boundary surface , namely a local diameter and average geodesic distance from one vertex to all other vertices . Though this approach is robust to minor topological changes due to articulation in meshes , the representation lacks intuitiveness .
Classification and regression models on anthropomorphic data have been widely used in the fields of graphics and vision . In most of these models , the feature vectors
608
MdT Islam et al . used are fairly low level ; eg Cartesian points , curves , distances and moments . Liu et al . [ 13 ] perform PCA on low level point features for original and caricature drawings of human faces . Gooch et al . [ 8 ] also cartoonify face photographs by computing Eigenvalues between key facial points after training their system with real face data . Wang et al . [ 23 ] used rotational regression to learn deformation offsets of vertices in relation to driver skeletal joints . Meyer and Anderson [ 15 ] propose a computation cache for neighborhoods of key points undergoing lighting or deformation calculations , again using PCA analysis on point features . Hsu et al . [ 10 ] use CART data mining on body distance measurements ( eg waist girth , hip girth , etc . ) and body mass index to classify them into Large/Medium/Small categories for garment production . Marchenko et al . [ 14 ] differ from all these approaches by combining ontological metadata ( eg artist name , style and art period ) with low level image features ( eg brushwork and color temperature ) . Though they do not do any shape analysis , they implement a practical learning framework that improves learning results with humanunderstandable conceptual knowledge layers .
Automatic extraction of information from cartoon images of humanoids poses a number of challenges like perspective distortions , obscured body parts due to posing , and exaggerated non standard body parts ( unlike real humans ) . We did not find any method that provides a robust solution to this ill posed problem . Since our goal is not the automation of data collection , which by itself is a significant challenge , we designed a user friendly system to allow manual annotation of shapes . We derive inspiration from the use of primitive shapes outlined in art books [ 1,2,3,9,19 ] as well as shape perception literature [ 6,16 ] . We propose a novel vector shape that blends and smoothly morphs between three primitive shapes : circle/triangle/square . According to the Gistalt school of thought [ 16 ] , we perceive shapes in relation to one another , as well as an overall sum of parts ( instead of scrutinizing details of individual parts independently ) . Keeping this in view , we subjected the full body representation to training , rather than individual body parts . In this paper we demonstrate our shape transformation results with SVM , taking inspiration from Gil Jiménez et al . [ 7 ] who also use SVM to classify shapes ( to identify traffic light patterns in live footage ) .
3 Methodology
We have gathered a collection of nearly 300 approximately front facing humanoid character images from various digital and physical resources . We intend to find the relationship between perception labels and measurable physical shapes extracted from the body images . We have manually annotated the body part shapes with our shape widget , and collected perception labels for these characters from laymen via online surveys and games . These games were designed in such a way that the player while playing the game , as a byproduct , provides us useful information . In this case it is the perception labels on characters . The perception labels were gathered for the full visual design as well as just the annotated body part shape outlines . Using our body parts shape vector data as features and the averaged perception labels as classes we then classify these characters . We now outline the key components of the paper , namely data collection , vector shape representation , and training .
Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
609
4 Data Collection
We have collected humanoid characters from different genres , namely 2D classic , 2D action , 3D movies , Manga , and unpublished art . As of now , we sample data from all these genres in our paper . In future , when we are able to grow our collection , it would probably make more sense to create individual models for each genre .
Fig 1 . ( L : ) The annotation tool ( R : ) The shape annotation widget
Fig 1 illustrates the shape annotation tool and the body part shape control widget . The shape control widget allows single gesture control of the given body part shape . The location of the black star cursor in the shape interpolation triangle controls the shape blend weights for the three primitive shapes . The interpolation space is triangular as we find enough expressivity with the circle , triangle and square shapes . It also allows us to directly plug the normalized Barycentric coordinate offsets of the star cursor from the three shape corners , to the corresponding shape weights .
The annotation was done by artists with reasonable knowledge of character design and concept art . The character perception labels was also captured from both artists as well as general audience . This ensured that the data set contains a mix of opinion from the content creators and the content consumers . Each body part can be created independently by clicking on the corresponding image location , and specifying the length , breadth , medial axis , and shape weights . The annotation tool can automatically guess the identity of the annotated parts ; ie which shape corresponds to which body part , using ideas from Thorne et al . [ 18 ] . In case some really odd proportioned character breaks our rules , the artist can easily override the label assignments . Once the annotation is done we save the character cages to our database in the following form : {character_id , perception labels , bodyPartVector1 16}
5 Vector Shape Representation
In this section we discuss details of our novel shape representation blending circle , triangle and square . As explained in the literature review , almost all peer methods store low level contour point data before reducing their representation with methods
610
MdT Islam et al .
1
2
3
1
2
1
2
3
3 b
5
4
5
4
4
5 l
Fig 2 . Consistent interpolation of circle , triangle , and square
( a )
( b )
Fig 3 . Smooth shape transition with consistent interpolation . ( a ) Blending two shapes . ( b ) Blending all three shapes .
Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
611 like PCA or some compact shape signature . Usually , these transformations make the data non intuitive and thus tracking the learning algorithm becomes very difficult .
As shown in Fig 2 , we store each of the three normalized primitive shapes as a set of eight quadratic Bezier curves . The solid points represent segment boundaries and the ragged blotches represent mid segment control points . Note how a null segment ( 1 2 ) had to be created for the apex of the triangle . The reason why our piece wise curve segments work so well , is that we were able to carefully identify the corresponding segments for the diverse topologies of circle , triangle and square . As a result , even under simple linear interpolation , we do not notice any tears or inconsistent shapes .
The normalized shapes can be affine transformed to any location , scale and rotation . Finally , the shape weights are applied to blend the corresponding Bezier control points , to yield an in between shape . Note that start end mid control points of only corresponding segments are interpolated , as shown in Eqns . 1 and 2 .
Fig 4 . Expressive vector fitting of body parts
612
MdT Islam et al . p m
3
= ' ∑ j
= 1 i
3
= ' ∑ j
= 1 i
(
( pw
. i
. ) i
, j
( 1 )
) i
, j
( 2 ) mw
. i where , wi
2∑ = 1 i=0
And , j ∈{1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
In the above equations , p′j and m′j represent the j th blended segment boundary and midpoints respectively , while pi,j , and mi,j represent the corresponding control points in the i th primitive shape ( circle , triangle , square ) . wi is the weight contribution from the i th primitive shape . Results of some blend operations are shown in Fig 3 . The cross hair under the shapes indicate the shape weights .
Fig 4 illustrates the expressive vector shape fitting of diverse character shapes . As evident from the warrior character in the last row , accessories and loose clothing pose challenges in extracting the true body proportions . In such situations , only a human artist can make an educated guess on where the actual body part lies . This is also true for hidden or fore shortened body parts in posed character images , which is usually the case for characters from released games and films .
6 Training and Experimental Results
6.1 Cleaning
To describe each body part in our shape vector representation we need 8 parameters such as , the coordinate of the center , height , width , orientation and three shape weights for circle , triangle , and squares . Thus for 16 body parts we have 128 features . As any body part can be at any orientation and the personality traits and physicality are posture invariant we ignore the rotation of the body parts . Also since we are more interested in the proportion data , the exact location of the cage center can also be disposed of as we have the cage length and breadth parameters . For the shape weights ; since we use normalized barycentric coordinates , we can omit one of the shape weights from our feature list , as the three weights add up to 1 . In our case we omit the triangle weight . Thus finally the height , width , circles weight and square weight these four features are used for further mining steps .
6.2 SVM Classification
We applied SVM to our vector annotated shapes , which were also manually labeled into classes . For this paper , we tested three physical class labels : weak , strong and average . To validate the model , we split our collection into a training set ( 247
Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
613 characters ) and an evaluation set ( 68 characters ) . We also implemented a control experiment , using a simple low level distance measure to represent the same shapes with boundary distance from the body part centroid . This helped us objectively find out how our method compares to those that use low level features in their training model . As can be seen from Tables 1 3 , our primitive shape representation performs much better in terms of correctly classified instances and overall decent values for precision and recall for each class .
Table 1 . SVM with primitive shape transform outperforms naïve low level representation
Centroid Boundary
Distance ( r , θ )
Correctly Classified Instances Incorrectly Classified Instances Kappa statistic Mean absolute error Root mean squared error Relative absolute error Root relative squared error Total Number of Instances
In table 2 the TP rate is true positive rate , FP rate is false positive rate
32 ( 47.06 % ) 36 ( 52.94 % ) 0.2098 0.3987 0.4973 89.12 % 104.27 % 68
Primitive Vector Representation 61 ( 89.71 % ) 7 ( 10.29 % ) 0.8454 0.2451 0.3096 55.19 % 65.71 % 68
= tp
TP +
FN
TP
… … … … ( 3 )
= fp
FP +
FP
TN
… … … … ( 4 )
Now , to calculate TP rate for class strong in Table 2 primitive vector representation we get from the confusion matrix of Tabl 3 that TP = 19 , and FN = 2+1 = 3 . So , from equation ( 3 ) we get
=tp
19 ++ 12
=
19
.0
86363636
. Similarly we calculate all the tp and fp values in Table 2 . For the F Measure we use the equation
−
F measure
×= 2 recall + recall precision
× precision
… … … … ( 5 )
Fig 5 shows the visual validation results of our model . A sample is shown from the training set in the first column , two correct classification results from the second column , and one incorrect result is shown in the last column . We feel that these results are qualitatively acceptable , and even the incorrect labels are not blatantly wrong .
614
MdT Islam et al .
Table 2 . Accuracy Results by Class
Primitive Vector Representation
Weighted Avg .
CentroidBoundary Distance ( r , θ ) Weighted Avg .
TP Rate 0.864 0.864 0.958 0.897 TP Rate 0.385 0.4 0.636 0.471
FP Rate 0.043 0.905 0.065 0.864 0.045 0.92 0.051 0.897 FP Rate 0.143 0.625 0.188 0.471 0.457 0.4 0.257 0.507
Precision Recall F Measure ROC
Class
Area 0.965 strong 0.918 avg 0.968 weak 0.951 Precision Recall F Measure ROC
0.864 0.884 0.864 0.864 0.958 0.939 0.897 0.897
Class
0.385 0.4 0.636 0.471
0.476 0.432 0.491 0.468 strong avg
Area 0.659 0.595 0.593 weak 0.619
Fig 5 . Visual results of validation tests on ground truth
Learning from Humanoid Cartoon Designs
615
Table 3 . Confusion Matrix
Primitive Vector Representation
Strong
Average
Weak
( cid:197 ) Classified as
19
2 0
2
19 1
Centroid Boundary Distance ( r , θ )
Strong
Average
10
3
3
4
8
5
1
1 23
Weak
12
9
14
Strong
Average Weak
( cid:197 ) Classified as Strong
Average
Weak
7 Conclusion
This paper describes a new method of representing arbitrary shapes using a blend of circle , triangle and squares . It uses consistent interpolation of quadratic Bezier curves . We have achieved a decent precision and recall rate for our SVM training model , and significantly outperform an example low level data transformation . We hope to add to our database , and mine relationships between labels as well . One of the limitations of our representation is that it is symmetric about its medial axis , and also that it cannot represent concave surfaces . We are currently working on these limitations , by allowing more than one primitive shape to be fitted to a body part . We are also working on exciting applications in warping and shape deformation that will further empower procedural generation and design reuse .
References
1 . Bancroft , T . : Creating Characters with Personality , ISBN : 0 8230 2349 4 2 . Beiman , N . : Prepare to Board! : Creating Story and Characters for Animated feature 3 . Camara , S . : All about techniques in drawing for animation production , 1st edn . Barron ’s
Education Series , Inc . ( 2006 )
4 . Edelman , S . , Intrator , N . : Learning as extraction of low dimensional repre sentations . In : Medin , D . , Goldstone , R . , Schyns , P . ( eds . ) Mechanisms of Perceptual Learning , vol . 36 , pp . 353–380 . Academic Press , London ( 1997 )
5 . Gal , R . , Shamir , A . , Cohen Or , D . : Pose Oblivious Shape Signature . IEEE Transactions on
Visualization and Computer Graphics 13(2 ) , 261–271 ( 2007 )
6 . Garrett , L . : Visual design : A Problem Solving Approach 7 . Gil Jiménez , P . , Lafuente Arroyo , S . , Maldonado Bascón , S . , Gómez Moreno , H . : Shape Classification Algorithm Using Support Vector Machines for Traffic Sign Recognition . In : Cabestany , J . , Prieto , AG , Sandoval , F . ( eds . ) IWANN 2005 . LNCS , vol . 3512 , pp . 873–880 . Springer , Heidelberg ( 2005 )
8 . Gooch , B . , Reinhard , E . , Gooch , A . : Human facial illustrations : Creation and psychophysi cal evaluation . ACM Transactions on Graphics ( TOG ) 23(1 ) , 27–44 ( 2004 )
9 . Hart , C . : Cartoon Cool : How to Draw New Retro Style Characters
616
MdT Islam et al .
10 . Hsu , C H , Wang , MJ : Using decision tree based data mining to establish a sizing system for the manufacture of garments . The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology 26(5 6 ) ( September 2005 )
11 . Islam , T . , Why , YP , Ashraf , G . : Mining Human Shape Perception with Role Playing
Games . CGAT , Singapore , ( to appear , 2010 )
12 . Judd , T . , Durand , F . , Adelson , E . : Apparent ridges for line drawing . ACM Trans .
Graph . 26(3 ) , article 19 ( 2007 )
13 . Liu , J . , Chen , Y . , Gao , W . : Mapping Learning in Eigenspace for Harmonious Caricature Generation . In : Proceedings of the 14th annual ACM international conference on Multimedia ( 2006 )
14 . Marchenko , Y . , Chua , TS , Jain , R . : Ontology Based Annotation of Paintings Using
Transductive Inference Framework . MMM ( 1 ) , 13–23 ( 2007 )
15 . Meyer , M . , Anderson , J . : Key Point Subspace Acceleration and soft caching . ACM Trans .
Graph . 26(3 ) , article 74 ( 2007 )
16 . Pizlo , Z . : 3D Shape : Its Unique Place in Visual Perception . MIT Press , Cambridge ( 2008 )
ISBN : 978 0262162517
17 . Stathopoulou , E . , Alepisa , GA , Tsihrintzisa , Virvoua , M . : On assisting a visual facial affect recognition system with keyboard stroke pattern information . In : I. OResearch and Development in Intelligent Systems , vol . XXVI , pp . 451–463 .
18 . Thorne , M . , Burke , D . , van de Panne , M . : Motion doodles : An Interface for sketching character motion . In : Marks , J . ( ed . ) ACM SIGGRAPH 2004 Papers . Los Angeles , California , August 08 12 , pp . 424–431 . ACM , New York ( 2004 )
19 . Toll , D . : You Can Draw . Hinkler Books , ISBN : 978 1 7415 7610 8 20 . Ueda , N . , Suzuki , S . : Learning Visual Models from Shape Contours Using Mul tiscale Convex/Concave Structure Matching . IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 15(4 ) , 337–352 ( 1993 )
21 . Vapnik , VN : The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory ( Information Science and Statis tics ) . Springer , Heidelberg ( 1999 )
22 . Vogel , HL : Entertainment Industry Economics : A Guide for Financial Analysis , 7th edn .
Cambridge University Press , Cambridge
23 . Wang , RY , Pulli , K . , Popović , J . : Real time enveloping with rotational regression . ACM
Transactions on Graphics ( TOG ) 26(3 ) ( 2007 )
24 . Waterman , AD : A guide to expert systems . The teknowledge series in knowledge engi neering . Addison Wesley , Reading ( 1986 )
25 . Zhang , M . : Mining small objects in large images using neural networks . Tech . rep . , Victo ria University of Wellington , School of Mathematical and Computing Sciences ( 2005 )
