Learning to Evaluate the Visual Quality of Web Pages
Ou Wu
Institute of Automation
Chinese Academy of Sciences wuou@nlpriaaccn
Yunfei Chen , Bing Li Institute of Automation
Chinese Academy of Sciences {yfchen,bli}@nlpriaaccn
Weiming Hu
Institute of Automation
Chinese Academy of Sciences wmhu@nlpriaaccn
ABSTRACT A beautiful and well laid out Web page greatly facilitates users’ accessing and enhances browsing experiences . We use “ visual quality ( VQ ) ” to denote the aesthetics of Web pages . In this paper , a computational aesthetics approach is proposed to learn the evaluation model for the visual quality of Web pages . First , a Web page layout extraction algorithm ( V LBE ) is introduced to partition a Web page into major layout blocks . Then , regarding a Web page as a semistructured image , features known to significantly affect the visual quality of a Web page are extracted to construct a feature vector . The experimental results show the initial success of our approach . Potential applications include Web search and Web design .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous ; H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data Mining
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Visual quality , aesthetics , semi structured image , learning .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Researchers in multiple disciplines have laid emphasis on the aesthetics of web pages . Findings on human computer interaction ( HCI ) suggest that aesthetics enhances positive feelings toward Web based applications and has important implications for user experience [ 5 ] . Consequently , both the HCI and design research fields have exerted great efforts to improve a Web page ’s aesthetics and to develop standards to evaluate the aesthetics of a Web page [ 2 ] . Plenty of useful Web page design rules are established . However , due to limitations in visual information processing and Web mining techniques , previous studies have usually considered only a small number of factors . The lack of solid machine learning theories has resulted in that evaluation models are usually simple and have poor generalization capabilities . On the other hand , current Web mining mainly engages in the exploration of valuable content on the Web and in the evalua
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . tion of content usability . Web pages’ aesthetics has receives litter attention in the Web mining literature despite its crucial effect on Web based applications . To advance Web aesthetics research and construct a generalized , automatically and more accurate aesthetic evaluation model , this paper bridges the gap between the studies in the HCI and design communities and the methodologies in Web mining and machine learning . In this work , aesthetics is called visual quality ( VQ ) . VQ evaluation can play a significant role in many Web based applications . It can help Web page design and be intergraded in Web search .
2 . METHODOLOGY
Learning the VQ evaluation model for Web pages in our study involves a computational aesthetics approach . This falls into a classical statistical learning framework : extracting discriminative features and then learning the inductive model ( eg , classifier ) . However , VQ is subjective , which begs the question : is it possible to learn a model in order to measure the VQ of Web pages ? Indeed , several pilot works [ 3 ] on aesthetic modeling for images have demonstrated encouraging results . The achievements on image aesthetic modeling suggest that the evaluation of the VQ of Web pages can be reasonably learned . 2.1 Overview of the proposed approach
A Web page can be viewed as a semi structured image . The structural information includes the page layout , text positions and distributions , inner image positions , and background areas . We first apply a Web structure analysis tool to segment a Web page into a set of blocks , and then construct the layout for the page . We extract four classes of visual features for a page : layout visual features , text visual features , classical visual features ( color and texture ) , and the visual complexity feature . To reduce the negative effects of a single person’ s labeling subjectivity , each training page in our experiments is repeatedly labeled by several ( seven in the experiments ) persons . Finally , a cost sensitive learning based classifier is constructed to classify Web pages into low VQ or high VQ category . 2.2 Page layout extraction
Michailidou et al .
[ 4 ] concluded that there is a strong and high correlation between Web pages’ layouts and their aesthetics . We introduce a heuristic layout extraction algorithm based on the Web page segmentation results . Given that this study explores the visual aspects of Web pages , the Vision based Page Segmentation ( VIPS ) [ 1 ] algorithm is
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1205 chosen as the basic segmentation algorithm . Our algorithm is called VIPS based Layout Block Extraction algorithm ( V LBE ) . V LBE first selects all the layout block candidates whose sizes are above a threshold ( 1 ) and then deletes or inserts blocks to construct a set of un overlapped large blocks which ( approximately ) cover the whole page . In our experiments , 1 is set as 1/9 of the whole page size , while 2 is set as 1/36 of the whole page size . Once the layout blocks are obtained , the number of major blocks on a page and the blocks’ relative positions can be easily inferred . We use adjacent matrix ( A ) to describe the relationships between blocks : Aij = 1 if the block i and the block j are adjacent , while Aij = 0 otherwise . 2.3 Features
A Web page ’s VQ is influenced by a wide range of factors . With the extracted layout , a Web page can be transformed into a semi structured image , and each block of the page corresponds to an image block . We consider four classes of features : ( 1 ) layout visual features ( LV ) that reflect the visual perception on the page layout ; ( 2 ) text visual features ( TV ) that reflect the visual perception on the Web texts ; ( 3 ) classical visual features including traditional color and texture features ; and ( 4 ) the visual complexity feature ( VC ) . The four classes of features characterize a Web page ’s four main parts : text , images , backgrounds , and the layout . Due to lack of space , we only give a sketch of each types of features . The detailed definitions can be referred to the full version of the paper . Thirty features are extracted as candidate features denoted as ffij1 i 30g . f1 , f5 characterize the layout visual features ( LV ) , ie,the number of layout blocks ( f1 ) , the sum of the width ( f2 ) , aspect ratio ( f3 ) , the number of leaf nodes ( f4 ) , and the number of layers of the block tree ( f5 ) . f6 , f8 describe the text visual features ( TV ) including text leaf node count ( f6 ) , text area proportion ( f7 ) and character density ( f8 ) . f9 , f20 characterize the color present in a page . Four color properties of a page are considered : Hue ( H ) , Brightness ( Bri ) , Saturation ( Sat ) and Colorfulness ( Col ) . For each property , three features are extracted to reflect the average value , block contrast and block variance . f21 , f29 represent the texture features ( T ) of a page . The ratio of the JPEG size to the whole Web page image ’s area ( f30 , VC ) is alto considered because it reflects the visual complexity .
3 . EVALUATION
We chose homepages as our experimental data and collected 500 homepages , mainly from sites of companies , universities , personal , and so on . To ensure that the gathered pages contain both high and low VQ pages , two persons collected high VQ pages in their views , and two other persons collected low VQ pages in their views . After the download , each page ’s layout and text blocks are extracted , and each page is transformed into a Web page image . Each page was labeled by seven participants . Each participant is allowed to view one page within 5 seconds and assess the page from the five rating scores ( 2 , 1 , 0 , 1 , and 2 ) . “ 2 ” means very good , while “ 2 ” means very bad . After human labeling , each page has seven scores . The average score is calculated . Its sign is as the label and its absolute value is the cost .
In cost sensitive learning , mis classified cost is applied to evaluate learning performances [ 6 ] . The average mis classified cost ( AMC ) is used in this study .
Table 1 : The classification performances ( AMCs ) of feature subset combinations Combinations
LV , TV
LV , TV , T
LV , TV , T , VC
LV , TV , T , VC , Col
LV , TV , T , VC , Col , Bri
LV , TV , T , VC , Col , Bri , Sat
All features
AMC 0.2104 0.2084 0.2063 0.1978 0.1846 0.2060 0.2088
Cost sensitive SVM 1 is used as the classification model with the radius based function kernel . The AMCs achieved by leave one out validation are reported . The parameter C and the kernel parameter g are searched in f0.01 , 0.1 , 1 , 10 , 100g and f0.25 , 0.5 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8g , respectively .
We first rank the performances of each feature subset . Results show that layout visual features ( LV ) provide the best performance , and text visual features ( TV ) achieve the second best performance.We undertake a forward feature selection strategy : the feature subsets are combined according to their performance orders . The AMCs of each feature subset combination are listed in Tbl . 1 . It can be observed that ( 1 ) the best performance ( AMC = 0.1846 ) is achieved by the feature combination of LV , TV , T , VC , Col , and Bri ; ( 2 ) each feature subset combination outperforms all the single feature subsets ; and ( 3 ) with the increase in the number of combined feature subsets , the AMC decreases at first and then increases . The best classification performance is close to the two labelers’ AMC values ( 0.1422 and 01155 )
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we have brought together multi discipline studies from HCI , Web mining , machine learning , and computer vision to learn the VQ evaluation model for Web pages . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work dedicated to the topic in the Web mining and machine learning literature . We have conducted experiments to evaluate the performances of different feature subsets and their combinations on the collected Web pages . The experimental results also indicate the promising of the proposed approach .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Cai . et al . vips : a vision based page segmentation algorithm . Microsoft Technical Report , ( MSR TR 2003 79 ) , 2003 .
[ 2 ] P . Costa . Evaluating web site design . In Proc . ACM
SIGDOC’08 , pages 1071–1083 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] R . Datta . et al . studying aesthetics in photographic images using a computational approach . In Proc . ECCV , LNCS , pages 288–301 , 2006 .
[ 4 ] E . Michailidou . et al . visual complexity and aesthetic perception of web pages . In Proc . SIGDOC’08 , pages 215–223 , 2008 .
[ 5 ] B . Schenkman and F . Jonsson . Aesthetics and preferences of web pages . Behaviour and Information Technology , 19(5):367–377 , 2000 .
[ 6 ] B . Zadrozny . et al . cost sensitive learning by cost proportionate example weighting . In Proc . ICDM , pages 435–442 , 2003 .
1http://svmlightjoachimsorg/
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1206
