Access : News and Blog Analysis for the Social Sciences
Mikhail Bautin , Charles B . Ward , Akshay Patil , and Steven S . Skiena
Dept . of Computer Science
Stony Brook University
Stony Brook , NY 11794 4400
{mbautin,charles,akshay,skiena}@cssunysbedu
ABSTRACT The social sciences strive to understand the political , social , and cultural world around us , but have been impaired by limited access to the quantitative data sources enjoyed by the hard sciences . Careful analysis of Web document streams holds enormous potential to solve longstanding problems in a variety of social science disciplines through massive data analysis .
This paper introduces the TextMap Access system , which provides ready access to a wealth of interesting statistics on millions of people , places , and things across a number of interesting web corpora . Powered by a flexible and scalable distributed statistics computation framework using Hadoop , continually updated corpora include newspapers , blogs , patent records , legal documents , and scientific abstracts ; well over a terabyte of raw text and growing daily . The Lydia Textmap Access system , available through http://wwwtextmapcom/access , provides instant access for students and scholars through a convenient web user interface . We describe the architecture of the TextMap Access system , and its impact on current research in political science , sociology , and business/marketing .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences
General Terms Documentation , Experimentation
Keywords News Analysis , Blog Analysis , Social Sciences , Hadoop
1 .
INTRODUCTION
TextMap Access provides instant access to large scale news analysis , enabling scholars and students to identify cultural trends and interpret a wide range of social forces . Questions like : ( cid:129 ) Do university reputations better reflect sports or academics ? ( cid:129 ) Which people and places have greater ( or lesser ) global signifi(cid:129 ) How does the editorial bias of a newspaper ( conservative vs . lib cance ? eral ) influence its coverage of events ? can now be easily and meaningfully studied .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
These types of studies are examples of what has only become possible with our new scalable Lydia architecture , compared to the previous version of the Lydia system described in [ 12 ] . The performance improvement is approximately 20 fold . The new Lydia system can fully process our five year archive of over 120 million US news articles in less than two weeks on our 18 node Hadoop [ 2 ] cluster . The old Lydia ran on a single machine , but even if it could scale linearly , it would take 2.5 years to process the same dataset , according to the 250 articles per hour per machine performance estimate reported in [ 10 ] .
Figure 1 is an example of the analysis TextMap Access makes possible , showing the extent of the historical sweep which can be explored within the corpora we provide . In this paper , we will briefly describe how the Lydia processing framework functions , the demonstrated social science applications of Lydia , and the types of statistics and corpora made publicly available to social science researchers through TextMap Access : http://wwwtextmapcom/access
2 . PROCESSING FLOW
Lydia consists of five primary components : spidering , NLP markup , sentiment analysis , entity analysis and aggregation , and access/visualization . We will discuss each of these in turn . ( cid:129 ) Spidering – Lydia spiders text sources ranging from mainstream news sources to blogs on a continual , daily basis . Our largest spidered corpus consists of more than a hundred million news articles spanning nearly five years , from over a thousand newspapers across the country and around the world . Other corpora include text derived from Lydia ’s own blog spiders , as well as blog text from blog aggregation services such as Spinn3r .
( cid:129 ) NLP Markup – Starting from raw unstructured text , Lydia performs a series of natural language processing tasks . Lydia begins by applying a part of speech tagger , the output of which is used in a number of later stages . Next , the system performs a sequence of steps designed to identify and classify named entities . Entities are classified into a range of over 100 different categories , such as PERSON , COMPANY , ADDRESS , or BODY_OF_WATER . With entities marked up , the system then attempts to perform pronoun resolution , local entity co reference , and geographic normalization . Pronoun resolution simply means that , wherever possible , the system will attempt to resolve pronoun references to the indicated entity . Local entity co reference is similar , but refers to resolving references to the same entity under different names . Later phases of the analysis engine , beyond the scope of discussion of this paper , attempt to unify names based on more than local context .
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1229 Figure 1 : Frequency time series for ( Grover ) Cleveland and ( George ) Bush in the historical dataset .
( cid:129 ) Sentiment Analysis – We refer the reader to the original papers [ 3 , 8 ] for full details details of the Lydia sentiment analysis system , as well as Pang and Lee ’s excellent survey on techniques for sentiment analysis [ 14 ] . The Lydia sentiment analysis system is based on lexicons of positive and negative words , and associating entities with sentiment of co occurring words from these lexicons . The Lydia sentiment lexicons were constructed by starting from small sets of seed words of incontrovertible polarity , targeted to each of six specific domains : business , crime , health , politics , sports , and media . The synonyms and antonyms of an electronic dictionary ( Wordnet , [ 13 ] ) enable us to expand each seed set into a full sentiment lexicon . Details of this process are reported in [ 8 ] . Although validation of sentiment analysis is a difficult problem , the accuracy and usefulness of Lydia ’s sentiment analysis has examined in several ways :
( cid:129 ) The original Lydia sentiment paper [ 8 ] identifies significant correlations between our sentiment time series and political poll ratings , sports team performance , and stock indices . ( cid:129 ) We have performed extensive studies demonstrating that Lydia sentiment analysis time series can be used to improve the accuracy of movie gross forecasts [ 18 ] and also as the foundation for a profitable market neutral trading strategy for stocks [ 19 ] . ( cid:129 ) A small study comparing Lydia sentiment markup to human coders was performed as in the course of our involvement in the 2008 National Annenberg Election Survey . Although the human coding does not provide sentiment markup which is ideally comparable to Lydia ’s , the results were still quite favorable .
( cid:129 ) Entity Analysis and Aggregation – Lydia takes the NLP markedup documents and processes them in a series of jobs ( virtually entirely map reduce jobs ) , storing the results in a persistent data structure that we call a depository . A Lydia depository includes reference statistics , juxtaposition statistics , article and entity search indices , globally co referential entity sets , a variety of derived entity classifications , and aggregated statistics for these derived groups . The new analysis architecture for Lydia is built on top of the Hadoop [ 2 ] implementation of Google ’s Map Reduce [ 7 ] distributed computation model . As such , it was necessary to construct a dependency management system capable of correctly scheduling the processing of artifacts by map reduce jobs , especially to correctly manage daily updates of newly processed text . The technical details of this are beyond the scope of this paper , but can be found in [ 4 ] .
( cid:129 ) Access and Visualization – Once analysis is complete , a Lydia depository can be accessed through a flexible API which exposes different slices of the data , and provides various visualizations .
3 . LYDIA AND NEWS ANALYSIS FOR
THE SOCIAL SCIENCES
The analysis provided by Lydia has already proven very useful for research in a variety of areas . In this section , we will describe a number of these applications . 3.1 Lydia in Political Science
Political science is the field that obviously stands to benefit from using our news analysis system , as it is primarily concerned with current events involving entities widely covered in the media . To this end , we have collaborated with political scientists from Stony Brook University and University of Pennsylvania . The general direction of this collaboration is studying the influence of media coverage on electorate opinion , and our system quantifies the media part of this connection .
The Lydia project offers the opportunity to closely examine the relationship between campaign events , public opinion , and media . Many previous studies of media content such as [ 5,6 ] have explored an extremely narrow range of news sources . With our new Lydia infrastructure we are now able to analyze roughly 1000 online news sources with an archive spanning four years , starting from November 2004 , comprising over 120 million different articles .
One such analysis was performed over 16 months of news , political blog , and TV show transcript sources for the National Annenberg Election Survey ( NAES ) . The NAES is a massive public opinion survey conducted during each of the last three presidential elections by the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania . In each election cycle , the NAES conducts over one hundred thousand interviews of US adults , examining political issues and attitudes , with an emphasis on the effects of media exposure .
Another study conducted by political science collaborators using the Lydia system is concerned with determining the effect of elite influence on public opinion of foreign policy [ 9 ] . That is , there are essentially two models of how public opinion of foreign policy is shaped . The first model is that public opinion is largely based upon relatively tangible , quantifiable measures ( events ) , such as military and civilian casualties , threats to US national security or strategic interest , and the overall prospect of success . The second is that public opinion is largely driven by the influence of a small number of opinion leaders or elites .
Huddie , Johnson , and Lebo [ 9 ] examined the effect of media tone , US military casualties , Iraqi civilian casualties , specific important news events , and other effects on the partisan support for
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1230 Figure 2 : Frequency ( left ) and sentiment ( right ) of the Hispanic CEL group in US daily newspapers . For frequency , red reflects the greatest frequency of coverage , while green reflects the least . For sentiment , yellow reflects overall positive sentiment , while white represents neutral sentiment , and green negative sentiment . the Iraq war over a three year period . Interestingly , results indicate that the strength of these two effects differ across the political spectrum , with republicans being more responsive to specific events indicating the success of the ongoing war , while democrats were comparatively insensitive to these same events . 3.2 Ethnic Bias in the News
Ward , Bautin , and Skiena [ 17 ] is a study of news coverage of cultural/ethnic/linguistic ( CEL ) groups and their interactions using the data obtained from the new Lydia system . It proposes a method for entity nationality detection using juxtaposition data , performs geographic news analysis of cultural groups , examines time series trends in CEL group frequency and sentiment , and quantifies interactions and sentiment between these groups .
Figure 2 shows example figures from this analysis , demonstrating the geographic biases of news coverage across CEL groups . In this example , we examine the differences in volume and sentiment of coverage for individuals in the Hispanic CEL group . We note first that there is a strong regional bias to news volume , which , as we would expect , is highly correlated with the regional variation in Hispanic population density ( for a comparison to census data , see [ 17] ) . Somewhat more interestingly , we note in the sentiment graph that overall sentiment for Hispanics is strongly inversely correlated with news volume , a trend which does not appear significantly for other CEL groups . 3.3 Lydia in Business and Marketing
Another area in which Lydia ’s analyses can be put to good use is in the area of marketing research . Presently , we are collaborating with researchers at George Mason University to study a number of questions , one of which is the implications of news sentiment within a marketing context [ 15 ] . One simple example demonstrating the relevance of sentiment analysis to this area is shown in Figure 3 . Here we see that the sentiment of newspaper coverage surrounding the Hummer brand is strongly tied ( correlation 0.6 ) to gas prices , with a lag time of approximately one year .
Zhang and Skiena [ 19 ] studies how company frequency and sentiment data obtained from the new Lydia system reflects the company ’s stock trading volumes and financial returns . They confirm that the news data is highly informative , as many newspaper coverage variables correlate highly with stock indicators . For example ,
Figure 3 : Comparison of Hummer Sentiment and Gas Prices . reference volume and sentiment subjectivity correlate with trading volume , reference volume correlates with market capital , and most importantly , sentiment polarity correlates with return on investment . Using this data , Zhang and Skiena propose a news based market neutral trading strategy which gives consistently favorable low volatility results over the period covered by our news data . 3.4 Lydia in Sociology
Another ongoing collaboration using Lydia data is in the area of sociology [ 16 ] ; specifically , we are examining questions relating to the acquisition of fame . That is , questions like :
( cid:129 ) How is fame distributed ? ( cid:129 ) Why do some people become famous , and not others ? ( cid:129 ) What is the ultimate fate of news figures ? Does your fate differ by your news area ( sports , entertainment , etc. ) ? ( cid:129 ) What role does gender play in the acquisition of fame ?
Using the Lydia system , we can now begin to address questions like these , by analyzing the news records of hundreds of thousands of individuals across the country over a period of five years . As
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1231 an example , Figure 4 shows the distribution of reference volume of news entities with broadly geographically distributed coverage from the beginning to the end of our US dailies dataset . It is clear that the extent to which an entity is persistent in the news is strongly correlated with its initial level of coverage , and that there is a strong decay effect at work .
Figure 4 : Reference volume distribution of news entities with broadly geographically distributed coverage after four years . text corpora are now available
( termed in through TextMap Access depositories
4 . ACCESS processed
Ten system ) our ( http://wwwtextmapcom/access ) , including : ( cid:129 ) Dailies – This depository is constructed from a large corpus ( over one terabyte ) of US and international English language newspapers , starting November 2004 . ( cid:129 ) NAES 2008 – This is the depository of customized analysis for the 2008 National Annenberg Election Survey , covering news , blogs , and TV transcripts related to the presidential election . ( cid:129 ) Archival – This depository is constructed from a longer term corpus of articles over ten major US daily newspapers , where each source goes back to at least 1995 . ( cid:129 ) Historical – This depository provides analysis from a select set of very long range news sources providing from 1851 until present times . ( cid:129 ) Pubmed – This depository of over 17 million Medline/Pubmed journal abstracts permits analysis of trends regarding scientific and medical research , with comprehensive coverage since 1975 and sparser coverage back to 1865 . ( cid:129 ) Patents – This depository of over 3.7 million US patent abstracts charts the scientific and technical landscape since 1971 . ( cid:129 ) Supreme Court Decisions – The depository provides an analysis ( cid:129 ) LiveJournal – These blogs were the subject of our original study of blogs [ 11 ] , and are particularly interesting as a study of randomly selected blogs . ( cid:129 ) Spinn3r – Spinn3r [ 1 ] is a web service which provides access to of all of the almost 60,000 US Supreme Court decisions . a very large number of blogs and mainstream media sources .
For each of these processed corpora , we provide statistics which can be easily sliced by time and source dimensions . These statistics include frequency , sentiment , and juxtapositions ( co occurrences ) . Also easily accessible are spatial bias and network visualizations .
It is hoped that TextMap Access will make a valuable addition to the social scientist ’s toolbox .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Spinn3r . http://spinn3rcom/ [ 2 ] Apache Software Foundation . The Hadoop Project . http://luceneapacheorg/hadoop
[ 3 ] M . Bautin , L . Vijayarenu , and S . Skiena . International
Sentiment Analysis for News and Blogs . In Proc . of the International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , Seattle , WA , April 2008 .
[ 4 ] M . Bautin , C . Ward , and S . Skiena . A scalable architecture for historical news analysis . Submitted , 2009 .
[ 5 ] J . Box Steffensmeier , D . Darmofal , and C . Farrell . The endogenous relationship of campaign expenditures , expected vote , and media coverage . In American Political Science Association annual meeting , 2005 .
[ 6 ] H . Brandenburg . Revisiting the “ Liberal Media Bias ” : A
Quantitative Study into Candidate Treatment by the Broadcast Media During the 2004 Presidential Election Campaign . In Proc . of the Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association , Philadelphia , Sep 2006 . [ 7 ] J . Dean and S . Ghemawat . Mapreduce : Simplified data processing on large clusters . In Proc . of the OSDI’04 : Sixth Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation , pages 137–150 .
[ 8 ] N . Godbole , M . Srinivasaiah , and S . Skiena . Large Scale Sentiment Analysis for News and Blogs . In Proc . of the International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , Mar . 2007 .
[ 9 ] L . Huddie , C . Johnston , and M . Lebo . Elite influence , media coverage , and public opinion on the iraq war . In Midwest Political Science Association 67th Annual National Conference , 2009 .
[ 10 ] L . Lloyd . Lydia : A System for the Large Scale Analysis of
Natural Language Text . PhD thesis , Stony Brook University , 2006 .
[ 11 ] L . Lloyd , P . Kaulgud , and S . Skiena . Newspapers vs . blogs :
Who gets the scoop ? In Computational Approaches to Analyzing Weblogs ( AAAI CAAW 2006 ) , volume AAAI Press , Technical Report SS 06 03 , pages 117–124 , 2006 .
[ 12 ] L . Lloyd , D . Kechagias , and S . Skiena . Lydia : A system for large scale news analysis . In SPIRE , pages 161–166 , 2005 .
[ 13 ] G . A . Miller . WordNet : a lexical database for English .
Commun . ACM , 38(11):39–41 , 1995 .
[ 14 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis .
Now Publishers , 2008 .
[ 15 ] F . Sussan . Personal communicaton , 2009 . [ 16 ] C . Ward , S . Skiena , A . van de Rijt , and E . Shor . Sociological news analysis . in preparation , 2009 .
[ 17 ] C . B . Ward , M . Bautin , and S . Skiena . Identifying differences in news coverage between cultural/ethnic groups . Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology , IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on , 3:511–514 , 2009 .
[ 18 ] W . Zhang and S . Skiena . Improving movie gross prediction through news analysis . Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology , IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on , 1:301–304 , 2009 .
[ 19 ] W . Zhang and S . Skiena . Trading strategies to exploit news sentiment . Submitted for publication , 2009 .
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1232
