The Utility of Tweeted URLs for Web Search
Vasileios Kandylas
Yahoo! Inc .
Sunnyvale , CA kandylas@yahoo inc.com
Ali Dasdan∗
Ebay Inc .
San Jose , CA ali_dasdan@yahoo.com
ABSTRACT Microblogging as introduced by Twitter is becoming a source of tracking real time news . Although identifying the highest quality or most useful posts or tweets from Twitter for breaking news is still an open problem , major web search engines seem convinced of the value of such posts and have already started allocating part of their search results pages to them . In this paper , we study a different aspect of the problem for a search engine : instead of the value of the posts , we study the value of the ( shortened ) URLs referenced in these posts . Our results indicate that unlike frequently bookmarked URLs , which are generally of high quality , frequently tweeted URLs tend to fall in two opposite categories : they are either high in quality , or they are spam . Identifying the quality category of a URL is not trivial , but the combination of characteristics can reveal some trends .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Search Process
General Terms : Experimentation , Human Factors , Measurement
Keywords : content quality , microblogging , shortened URLs , Twitter
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Since its appearance on the web , microblogging has become an increasingly popular form of blogging . One reason for its popularity is that the short post length requirement demands little time commitment for the users . But microblogging is not only used like regular blogs . Many new uses have come up that were not originally intended [ 2 ] . For example , microblogging sites like Twitter are being used to recommend popular articles in real time [ 5 ] , to track breaking news stories [ 4 ] , for work related communication [ 6 ] , or for brand marketing [ 1 ] .
Regardless of the type of use , one common element is the frequent link exchange that occurs through posts and the shortening of the posted links to conform to the maximum allowed post length . In this paper we look at the quality of these URLs and their value for a web search engine . We focus on Twitter posts and specifically the bitly URLs within them and examine their properties : their frequency of ap
∗Work done while at Yahoo! Inc .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . pearance , the length of time that they show up in posts , their presence in the index of a state of the art search engine , their quality and spam characterization , their click to view ratio in search results and the correlations between these properties .
Unlike social bookmarking sites that have been shown to provide URLs of high value for search engines [ 3 ] , we find that shortened URLs from Twitter are a mixed bag : some are of high quality and some are spam . On average , the quality is better than a that of a random set however . Using tweet counts and the number of days that a URL was posted is not enough to fully separate good from bad URLs , but it allows to identify some bad URLs . For example , the most frequently tweeted URLs are of low quality . More work is needed to identify additional features ( for example followers count ) that can help evaluate the quality with more accuracy .
2 . METHODOLOGY
Dataset . We used the Twitter firehose to extract bitly URLs that appeared in every tweet for the month of October 2009 . The reason we only looked at bitly URLs from Twitter is two fold : ( 1 ) the majority of URLs that appear in Twitter are shortened URLs and of those most use bitly , which is the default shortening service ( about 50 % of the short urls ) , and ( 2 ) bitly provides a public API to expand the short URLs to their long form . We ended up with 35 million unique URLs and a total of 60 million URLs . About 29 million URLs were tweeted only once . URLs that were tweeted 5 times or less were removed from our dataset , which left us with 780,000 unique URLs . We expanded these to their long form using the bitly API and computed their count ( frequency of appearance ) and lifetime ( the number of days they appeared in posts ) .
Quality scores . We used classifiers , similar to those used by search engines , to classify the expanded links . The classifiers are sophisticated machine learning algorithms that compute quality , spam and adult scores for a web page . They employ many carefully selected features derived from the link structure , the page content and the host . Thresholds on the generated scores are used to classify the pages as good/bad , spam/ham and adult/safe .
Clicks and views . To evaluate user satisfaction we compared the bitly URLs with a set of randomly sampled URLs . Both samples were of the same size and were presented to users as search results . From the user query logs we measured how URLs are distributed , first , according to the total number of clicks they generate and second , by their click
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1127 random bitly
) s k c i l c l a t o t ( 0 1 g o l
8
6
4
2
0 random bitly y t i s n e d
5 1
0 1
5
0
1
2−3
4−7
8−15
16−31
32−63
64−127 128−255
256+
0.025
0.12
0.22
0.32
0.43
0.52
0.62
0.72
0.82
0.92 clicks per URL
CTR
Figure 1 : Total clicks per URL of random and bitly URLs , shown as organic search results .
Figure 2 : Clicks per view ( CTR ) of random and bitly URLs , shown as organic search results . through ratio ( CTR ) . The CTR of a URL is defined as the number of clicks divided by the number of views or impressions it received .
The reason is that the URLs with the highest CTR in the random set are very popular web pages , such as Facebook , but in the Twitter set these URLs are not tweeted frequently .
3 . RESULTS
Discoverability . Three weeks after the last URLs were extracted from Twitter , we checked the search engine index and found that only about 10 % of the unique , expanded URLs appeared there as organic search results ( without demarcation as URLs from tweets ) . This shows that the majority of the URLs are new for the search engine .
Basic statistics . The tweet count distribution followed the power law . Human evaluation of the top 10 URLs showed that they were simple online web games , adult or spam . URLs with high PageRank , such as the CNN home page link , were also tweeted , but not frequently . For almost half of the URLs the lifetime was one day , while about 9 % had lifetimes greater than 25 days . Compared to a random set , the bitly URLs had higher average quality score and lower adult score . Their average spam score was about the same , but concentrated in the middle with fewer URLs receiving extremely low or high scores .
Quality vs . frequency and lifetime . Looking at the correlations between the measured data , we found that the URLs that are most frequently tweeted tend to be of low quality . However , URLs that were tweeted few times are not necessarily of high quality either . The URLs with the most tweets have moderate spam scores , but below the threshold to be considered spam . URLs with few tweets cover the whole range of spam scores . Looking at the lifetime correlations , the quality score distribution is not affected by the URL lifetime . Non spam URLs have longer lifetime than spam and they are tweeted more on average than spam URLs . URLs with a lifetime of 30 days are tweeted the most , but the relationship is not proportional . For example , URLs with a lifetime of 29 days are tweeted about the same as those in the 1 to 28 days range .
Clickability . Compared to the randomly selected set , the bitly URLs generate orders of magnitude more total clicks ( Fig 1 ) . They also generate more clicks per view ( Fig 2 ) . However , the bitly URLs tend to improve the lower CTR buckets more than the higher ones . In fact , the highest CTR bucket for bitly contains fewer URLs than the random set .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
We found that extracting bitly URLs from Twitter can be useful for a web search engine . The average URL quality is higher than that of a randomly selected set . One must be careful however , because the quality has a two mode distribution . One mode is centered on high quality scores and another is around lower values and corresponds to spam URLs . The combined use of URL tweet count and lifetime provides insights into some of the URLs , but is not enough to filter out a significant portion of bad or spam URLs . Future work is needed to discover additional features that would permit a more efficient filtering of bad/spam URLs and a greater positive effect on the search engine .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B . J . Jansen , M . Zhang , K . Sobel , and A . Chowdury .
Micro blogging as online word of mouth branding . Proc . Int . Conf . on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp . 3859–3864 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 2 ] A . Java , X . Song , T . Finin , and B . Tseng . Why we
Twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . Proc . WebKDD and SNA KDD Workshop on Web Mining and Social Network Analysis , pp . 56–65 . ACM , 2007 .
[ 3 ] S . Kolay and A . Dasdan . The value of socially tagged URLs for a search engine . Proc . Int . Conf . on WWW , pp . 1203–1204 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 4 ] O . Phelan , K . McCarthy , and B . Smyth . Using Twitter to recommend real time topical news . Proc . Conf . on Recommender Systems , pp . 385–388 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] J . Sankaranarayanan , H . Samet , B . E . Teitler , M . D .
Lieberman , and J . Sperling . Twitterstand : news in tweets . Proc . Int . Conf . on Advances in Geographic Information Systems , pp . 42–51 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 6 ] D . Zhao and M . B . Rosson . How and why people
Twitter : the role that micro blogging plays in informal communication at work . Proc . Int . Conf . on Supporting Group Work , pp . 243–252 . ACM , 2009 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1128
