Situation Detection and Control using Spatio temporal
Analysis of Microblogs
Vivek K . Singh
University of California , Irvine singhv@uci.edu
Mingyan Gao
University of California , Irvine goam@uci.edu
Ramesh Jain
University of California , Irvine jain@icsuciedu
ABSTRACT Large volumes of spatio temporal thematic data being created using sites like Twitter and Jaiku , can potentially be combined to detect events , and understand various ‘situations’ as they are evolving at different spatio temporal granularity across the world . Taking inspiration from traditional image pixels which represent aggregation of photon energies at a location , we consider aggregation of user interest levels at different geo locations as social pixels . Combining such pixels spatio temporally allows for creation of social images and video . Here , we describe how the use of relevant ( media processing inspired ) situation detection operators upon such ‘images’ , and domain based rules can be used to decide relevant control actions . The ideas are showcased using a Swine flu monitoring application which uses Twitter data . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous General Terms : Human factors , Design Keywords : Situation , Event , Control , Microblogs , Twitter 1 . INTRODUCTION
We are currently witnessing an explosive growth in the popularity of micro blogging platforms like Jaiku and Twitter . Hundreds of thousands of users distributed globally are posting millions of microblogs each day on various events and topics of interest . With its real time availability , sheer volume , and inherent spatio temporal nature ; if combined properly , this data can give immediate insights into the global situation or ‘pulse of the world’ . Clearly such macro situation assessment is relevant to multiple application domains . Health care agencies tracking swine flu , disaster management agencies responding to fire or earthquakes , political activists looking for support patterns , business firms looking for product reviews and customer reaction , and military agencies looking for abnormal activities , would all be interested in such geo spatial situation assessment . representations .
In into meaningful
In order to support such applications we need to create tools which disambiguate the relevant from the irrelevant ( based on space , time , thematic , and user settings ) , and combine the relevant data this work , we demonstrate the use of simple user defined bag of word models to capture relevant user interest for any time window at a given geolocation . Next we combine such geo located interest patterns into multimodal ( image and video ) representations , and define a set of analytic operators for assessing situation parameters from this multimodal representation . The application designers can choose the right situation detection operators and define domain based temporal rules to support decision making and control actions from this data .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 20–24 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
2 . SYSTEM DESIGN
The overall system architecture for our approach is as shown in Fig 1 . We geo code the user microblogs coming from different parts of the world .
Figure 1 : Overall architecture
Micro event detection We adopt a simple bag of words approach for event detection at micro level in real time . The bag of words is configured by the application designer based on application theme . Spatio temporal aggregation using social pixels For macro level understanding , we aggregate user interest patterns in ( space and ) time windows ( eg moving window of 7 days , across the US ) . We undertake the aggregation using a ‘social pixel’ based approach . Just like the combination of energies coming from multiple photons at a particular position was captured as a pixel in traditional imaging sensors , here we capture the combined user interest levels or excitation energies coming from a particular geo location as a social pixel . Thus a high user activity pattern about ‘swine flu’ at geo location [ latitude , longitude ] , can be represented with a high intensity value at the corresponding pixel location . Combining multiple such pixels spatially allows us to create ‘social images’ ( see Fig 3(a ) for an example ) , and adding the temporal aspect allows to create ‘social video’ streams for each theme of interest . We argue that this is a good approach because : 1 . Such a visual representation , allows for intuitive understanding , and supports ‘situation awareness’ for human decision makers . 2 . Such a representation allows us to use rich repository of media processing algorithms like , edge detection , flow patterns , segmentation and so on to easily derive semantically useful situation information . Such analysis would be very tedious in a text based corpus of micro blogs or even as querying based approach in databases where ( relatively simple ) media processing operators like convolution and segmentation are yet to be mapped effectively .
The use of this ‘social image’ and the affordances provided by the ( media processing inspired ) situation detection operators differentiates our work from previous efforts like [ 2 , 3 ] which also analyzed spatio temporal microblogs . Situation detection operators We allow the application designer to choose from a variety of spatial and spatio temporal situation detection operators to detect
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1181 Figure 2 : Operators and their sample real world applications important parameters , patterns and macro events . As shown in Fig 2 , we have defined 5 different categories of analytic operators to support situation detection . Situation based control Decision making by the system clearly requires an understanding of the domain semantics involved . For example , an end user mentioning early symptoms of swine flu may be given very different recommendations based on the macro level spread of swine flu ( eg ‘low activity’ , ‘some cases’ , or ‘epidemic’ ) . Such semantics are transcribed in our case using a temporal rule based system for situation based control . 3 . APPLICATION : SWINE FLU MONITORING We downloaded the data using the ‘Gardenhose’ stream available from Twitter and augmented it with geo queries on Twitter API . The geo location is based on the ‘home’ location of the user , as converted by the Geonames server ( wwwgeonamesorg ) recommendations . The recommendation for each microblogger was decided ( see Fig 4 ) based on a combination of the micro level event ( eg Sore throat ) and macro situation parameter ( eg ‘Level 3=Epidemic’ , or ‘Level 1=Low activity’ ) . The ability to interact with the microblogger differentiates our approach from related search engine based approaches like [ 1 ] .
Figure 4 : Recommendation system based on tweet events and global situation parameters
Figure 3 : ( a ) A ‘social image’ representation of the ‘swine flu’ interest data across US . ( b ) Segmentation of image into 3 regions of different activity level .
We first undertook micro event detection on the data using keywords like ‘flu’ , ‘H1N1’ , ‘sore throat’ etc . to detect user level micro event . Next we aggregated user interest patterns across whole US into ‘social image’ as shown in Fig 3(a ) . Next we used a situation detection operator ( segmentation in this case ) on the social image to segment US into different zones with ‘Epidemic’ , ‘Medium’ , ‘Low’ levels of swine flu activity . Based on the domain rules encoded , the situation based controller came up with relevant
4 . CONCLUSIONS We have proposed a new way of organizing this spatio temporal microblog data into ‘social images’ , and defined the operators required for undertaking situation detection using them . We have demonstrated that the system can be encoded with domain rules to undertake appropriate control action . In a broader sense , this work also highlights the related concepts of ‘humans as sensors’ , ‘wisdom of the masses’ , and ‘crowd sourcing’ . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Q . Mei et al . “ A Probabilistic Approach to Spatiotemporal Theme
Sensor Data : Challenges and Experiences ” , in WISE’09 .
[ 3 ] J . Ginsberg et al . “ Detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data ” . Nature , 457(7232):1012 1014 , 2008 .
Pattern Mining on Weblogs ” , in WWW’06 .
[ 2 ] M . Nagarajan et al . “ Spatio Temporal Thematic Analysis of Citizen
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1182
