eduKEN : A Tool for Fine grained Video Comment
Collection and Analysis
Ophir Frieder
Department of Computer Science
Georgetown University
Washington , DC 20057 USA ophir@csgeorgetownedu
Armin Moehrle
TOCA , LLC
Chicago , IL 60647 USA armin@toca.com
Wai Gen Yee , Andrew Yates Department of Computer Science
Illinois Institute of Technology
Chicago , IL 60616 USA yee@iit.edu , ayates@iit.edu
We hypothesize
ABSTRACT An increasing amount of Web information is in video format . Today ’s search technology allows videos to be found using graphical features and textual descriptions . However , the information gleaned from video features is coarse , while textual descriptions are often short and fail to capture the precise content of videos . that user comments contain supplemental information that effectively describes the content of a video . This information , once extracted , can be applied to a search engine index to improve video search accuracy . A complete comment based indexing system must encourage users to post comments and be able to analyze comment data . To support research in the relevant areas of interface design , text analysis , and information retrieval , we present eduKEN , a flexible Web based tool that allows comment collection , analysis , and search . To support the collection of real world comment data in an educational setting , eduKEN includes an additional user interface designed for classroom use .
Categories and Subject Descriptors D33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – search process ; H50 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : General
General Terms Design , Experimentation
Keywords search , annotations
1 . INTRODUCTION The volume of video data on the Internet is exploding . YouTube is already the third most popular Web site on the Internet . It had more than one hundred million site visits daily in 2009 , a 13 % increase from the year before [ 3 ] . The volume of available video data is increasing dramatically as well , with over ten hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute [ 15 ] . The usefulness of this video data is severely compromised without an effective way of searching it . The search problem of most of these videos is that it consists of comparing a few query terms to a relatively small amount of descriptive metadata . In
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04
YouTube , video searches are based on string matching on three information fields created by the video ’s publisher : the title , the description , and the keywords . Results , consequently , are in “ coarse ” terms of entire videos . We hypothesize that the comments that viewers make on the videos also contain information that enhance their description . Moreover , a comment can be associated with a particular segment of video . Such comments can describe to a very fine grain the contents of a video not captured by broad descriptions . We propose , eduKEN , a system that allows users to view videos and post comments that are automatically and naturally associated with a time within the video ( ie , “ timestamped ” comments ) . This differs from YouTube and related systems , which allow users to post comments , but require them to explicitly timestamp them using textual tags ( eg , in the form dd:dd , where d is a digit ) . If the information within a comment that describes a video can be identified and extracted , it can be added to a search engine , allowing unprecedented search accuracy and granularity . Such a system is particularly useful with longer videos , where short descriptions cannot hope to describe all of the content . For example , consider a recorded 90 minute college lecture . Several topics are covered over the course of the lecture , much of which cannot be directly discovered with textual search . The characteristics of college lectures make them well suited for evaluating the benefits of eduKEN . An alternative educational user interface with a lecture slide browser was designed for this purpose . ( We are currently evaluating eduKEN's usability and educational impact in select college classrooms . ) To develop a usable system , research must be conducted in the following areas : •
Interface design – Users must have an intuitive interface that encourages commenting and captures necessary information ; Text mining – The “ information ” contents of the comments must be reliably identified ; Information retrieval – The extracted information must be integrated with other metadata in a search engine index .
•
•
Our system is designed to support such research . Demo Our demonstration of eduKEN exposes at a high level how its commenting features support data creation and location , improve user interaction , and potentially aid search . Users are able to browse and post comments while watching the videos . They are also able to identify relevant sections of video .
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1325 the that of eduKEN , including the effectiveness of timestamped comments
We also demonstrate eduKEN ’s fine grained search capabilities . As query responses , users have the option of retrieving either coarse results ( entire videos ) , or fine grained results ( video segments ) . Specifically , fine grained results include timestamps of the points in the video that match the query . Finally , we demonstrate eduKEN ’s modular architecture , which makes easy independent modification of components , including the user interface , the video sources , and the data stores . 2 . RELATED WORK Several popular commercial Web based video sharing systems allow users to post comments . Recently , they have begun to support timestamp tags within comments as well by making them “ clickable . ” Clicking on such a timestamp forwards the video to the point in time corresponding to the timestamp , providing context for the associated comment . However , we argue that requiring the user to explicitly insert timestamps into comments causes the feature to be underused . Newer systems , such as Viddler , allow users to post timestamped comments in a more natural way , suggesting the growing popularity of the feature . Viddler , however , does not support fine grained search . The Microsoft Research Annotation System ( MRAS ) also supports timestamped comments [ 1 ] . Despite critical acclaim , it could not sustain long term interest , and therefore , few studies evaluated in improving the user ’s video viewing experience . MRAS possibly lacked support because Web video was in its infancy when it was released ( ca . 1999 ) , and users were unaccustomed to its practice . The subsequent rise of video sharing sites with commenting features is strong evidence for this argument . Videolyzer [ 4 ] , a system for evaluating the information quality of videos , has a user interface and features that bear some similarity timestamped comments . with However , the information in a video through the use of a transcript . Project Pad 2 [ 10 ] and VideoANT [ 13 ] are designed for educational use , but have specialized interfaces . Project Pad 2 focuses on the ability to add notes to time segments . VideoANT does not support user comments , but instead requires them to be supplied by the video ’s publisher . Both support streaming video but are not intended for regular classroom use . In terms of interaction design , our work can borrow concepts from the Games With a Purpose ( GWAP ) project [ 12 ] . The idea behind GWAP is that some problems are too computationally complex for computers to feasibly solve alone , including image recognition . GWAP ’s solution is to use humans , motivated via games , to solve the problems . In our case , what we want to do is encourage users to post as many comments as possible , many of which are expected to contain descriptive information . Comment analysis involves the extraction of user opinions about “ aspects ” of a real world object , such as opinions of features of sale products [ 5][6][8 ] . Our desire to extract descriptive information to aspect identification , but is unique in that the “ aspects ” we search for come from qualitatively different bodies of text and are not constrained by a particular product . Aspect identification yields much of its accuracy from pre defined syntactic and semantic constraints . We are also not concerned about opinions as they do from comments bears similarities it is expressly designed for the critiquing not describe content , and therefore , cannot be directly applied to improving search accuracy . A common method of video search is via feature analysis ( eg , color histograms ) [ 11 ] . Although this is viable in some contexts , it is less natural in many other contexts , as users often express their searches using text . A likely more effective approach is to combine both feature based and text based search for retrieval . Little work has been done expressly on the analysis of comments to improve the description of video [ 9 ] , though work has been done on identifying interesting conversations within comments through analysis [ 2 ] . We expand on previous work by directly considering information content within comments and discussing their potential for improving search accuracy . the
Figure 1 . A Prototype Interface Design for the Classroom
Some of
3 . SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 3.1 Basic Functionality Basic eduKEN functionality includes video playback , comment browsing , comment posting , and search . this functionality is illustrated in Figure 1 : video playback ( 1 ) and comment browser ( 4 ) . A slide browser ( 2 ) is included to support a classroom application . A timeline ( 3 ) indicates the points in the video that are commented . By default , the comments display is synchronized with the video playback . Comments are sorted by timestamp , and as the video plays , the comments scroll vertically in the comment browser in synchrony with the video . Sorting can be based on the time when the comment was made , as well . To post a comment , the user clicks a button and starts typing . Video playback pauses until the comment has been committed . By default , the comment is timestamped with that point in the video . eduKEN also supports un timestamped comments , such as those found in typical video sharing Web sites , such as YouTube . The user can issue text queries to search for videos or video segments . The return values of the queries are entire videos by default , but can also be video segments in the form ( video , timestamp ) pairs . Each result is ranked by a relevance score ( eg , TF IDF ) based on a comparison of the text to which the query is compared ( eg , the title of the video ) and includes some of the text that matched the query .
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1326 Figure 2 . Application Server
Figure 3 . Alternate User Interface Design
Figure 4 . Data Server
3.2 Basic Architecture The system consists of three main components : an application server , a video server , and a data server as shown in Figure 2 . The application server consists of a Web accessible user interface , which interacts with the video server and data server via a controller component . The video server serves the video content to the user . The data server stores user information and video metadata ( including comments ) and provides data analysis and search functionality . 3.3 Design Features and Implementation eduKEN is designed to be modular , following a rough modelview controller ( MVC ) paradigm . This allows the application , video , and data servers to be independently maintained as long as they obey their well defined interaction protocol . The application server is logically made up of two components : a user interface and a controller ( in accordance with the MVC ) as shown in Figure 2 . The user interface can be modified independent of the controller . We implemented the application server in Ruby using the Rails framework . The interface is implemented using ERB HTML templates , which provide a way to keep program logic in the controller and out of the interface , allowing the interface to be modified by changing only the templates . In Figure 3 , we show an alternate interface design with a video viewer ( 1 ) , space for a transcript ( 2 ) , space for typing comments
( 3 ) , and horizontally scrolling comments ( 4 ) . Note that Figure 3 is smaller than Figure 1 to conserve space . The application server communicates with the video server via HTTP or RTMP . HTTP can be used to host the video on a Web server , while RTMP can be used to stream the video from a Flash streaming server . These protocols allow eduKEN to play from standard sources ( eg , Flash and MP4 ) via the Internet . The application server communicates with the data server via a customizable protocol , implemented on top of Hessian . Hessian is a popular and simple way of implementing communications between Internet connected servers . Data management and analysis is handled by the data server . The data server stores user accounts and video metadata . It also hosts the video search engine . See Figure 4 . Many vital operations are done by the data server . First , a user is authenticated with the user data . Next , the user finds a video using the search engine . While a video is playing , requests are made to the data server for comments , which are buffered at the application server and displayed to the user as necessary . Any comment posted by the user is stored at the data server . Finally , the data server is a natural place to conduct analyses on the video metadata . In our architecture , we analyze video metadata and feed the results into the search engine index .
Figure 5 . Percentage of Videos and Comments with
Timestamps
4 . RESULTS We currently have two research foci . First , we are analyzing comment data for information useful to search . We have three hypotheses : 1 . 2 . This information can be reliably extracted ; 3 . Comments with timestamps contain even more information
Information useful to search exists in user comments ; useful to search .
To test these hypotheses , we present preliminary results of an analysis conducted on YouTube data using our analysis engine . The data set we used was crawled from YouTube in three batches in 2009 : once in February , once in May , and once in September . The videos were retrieved by issuing queries made up of random terms from the SCOWL English word list [ 7 ] . For each random query , we randomly picked one video from the result set . For each video , we recorded metadata including title , description , keywords , and comments . Our data set contains over 70,000 videos ; a typical video has the characteristics :
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1327 • Number of comments : 210 • Comment length : 18 .
• Title length ( terms ) : 6 • Description length : 39 • Keyword length : 11 From these statistics , it is clear that the comments contain potentially much more information ( 210 * 18 = 3780 terms ) than do the publisher supplied title/description/keyword ( 6 + 39 + 11 = 56 terms ) fields . Indeed , in a separate report , we show that including information from comments when indexing video data into a search engine can increase search accuracy by 15 % [ 14 ] . Other results suggest the increasing importance of timestamps in comments . We identified over 290,000 timestamps in our videos . They occur in approximately 18,000 of our over 70,000 videos . However , their rate of occurrence is increasing . In February , 18 % of videos had comments with at least one timestamp , while in September , this rate increased to 27 % , as shown in Figure 5 . Based on our initial observations , the information found in timestamped comments is unique from the general description of the video and reliably describes the associated video segment . We are currently preparing these results for review . Our other focus is to integrate eduKEN into the online education delivery at the Illinois Institute of Technology . A student survey recently revealed that most online students find that the current video player/discussion board paradigm lacks interactivity and does not address certain common problems with the system such as poor recording quality . eduKEN was designed to allow students to make comments contextualized within a lecture video , simulating the raising of a hand in a live classroom . Such functionality should address many of the student concerns . Recent user studies indicate that 80 % of students would use eduKEN over the current system if it were made available .
5 . CONCLUSION The increasing volume of video data on the Web necessitates effective ways to search for them . Publisher annotation is bound to be too sparse . At the same time , Web 2.0 technologies allow users to post comments on these videos . We hypothesize that these comments contain information useful to search and that this information can be identified and incorporated into search engines to improve their accuracy . A comment based search system engenders challenges in the areas of interface design , text mining , and information retrieval . eduKEN is designed to be a flexible way of allowing independent research in these areas . One initial finding is that YouTube comments contain a significant amount of useful information , improving search accuracy by 15 % . Another finding is that students find that eduKEN is very likely to address a need that they have in online education – namely its lack of interactivity . We are continuing our analysis of YouTube comments , particularly those containing timestamps . We are also currently conducting usability in select college classrooms . tests on eduKEN
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Bargeron , A . Gupta , J . Grudin , and E . Sanocki .
“ Annotations for Streaming Video on the Web : System Design and Usage Studies . ” In Proc . WWW , 1999 .
[ 2 ] M . Choudhury , H . Sundaram , A . John , and D . Seligmann .
“ What makes conversations interesting ? : themes , participants and consequences of conversations in online social media . ” In Proc . WWW , 2009 .
[ 3 ] comScore . “ US Online Video Viewing Surges 13 Percent in Record Setting December . ” Press Release . Feb . 4 , 2009 . [ 4 ] N . Diakopoulos , S . Goldenberg , and I . Essa . “ Videolyzer : quality analysis of online informational video for bloggers and journalists . ” In Proc . Conf . on Human Factors in Computing Systems ( CHI ) , 2009 .
[ 5 ] X . Ding , B . Liu and P . S . Yu . "A Holistic Lexicon Based
Approach to Opinion Mining." In Proc . ACM Conf . on Web Search and Data Mining ( WSDM ) , 2008 .
[ 6 ] W . Jin , H . H . Ho , R . K . Srihari , "OpinionMiner : a novel machine learning system for web opinion mining and extraction," In Proc . ACM SIGKDD , 2009 .
[ 7 ] Kevin ’s Word List Page . Spell Checker Oriented Word List .
Accessed February , 2009 . http://wordlistsourceforgenet/
[ 8 ] Y . Lu , C . Zhai and N . Sundaresan . “ Rated Aspect
Summarization of Short Comments ” , In Proc . WWW , 2009 .
[ 9 ] M . Potthast . “ Measuring the Descriptiveness of Web
Comments . ” In Proc . ACM SIGIR , 2009 .
[ 10 ] Project Pad 2 . Accessed October , 2009 . http://deweyat northwesternedu/ppad2/documents/help/indexhtml
[ 11 ] A . W . M . Smeulders , M . Worring , S . Santini , A . Gupta , and
R . Jain . “ Content based image retrieval at the end of the early years ” IEEE Trans . on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 2000 .
[ 12 ] L . von Ahn and L . Dabbish . “ Labeling Images with a
Computer Game . ” In Proc . ACM Conf . on Human Factors in Computing Systems ( CHI ) , 2004 .
[ 13 ] VideoANT . Accessed October , 2009 . http://wwwcehdumnedu/ats
[ 14 ] W . G . Yee , A . Yates , S . Liu , and O . Frieder . “ Are Web User Comments Useful for Search ? ” In Wkshp . Large Scale Dist . Sys . Inf . Ret . ( LSDSIR09 ) , http://lsdsir09isticnrit , 2009 .
[ 15 ] YouTube Fact Sheet . Accessed September , 2009 . http://wwwyoutubecom/t/fact_sheet
WWW 2010 • DemoApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1328
