What You See Is What You Search :
Adaptive Visual Search Framework for the Web
Jae wook Ahn
School of Information Sciences
University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh , PA 15260 jahn@mailsispittedu
Peter Brusilovsky
School of Information Sciences
University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh , PA 15260 peterb@mailsispittedu
ABSTRACT Information retrieval is one of the most popular information access methods for overcoming the information overload problem of the Web . However , its interaction model is still utilizing the old text based ranked lists and static interaction algorithm . In this paper , we introduce our adaptive visualization approach for searching the Web , which we call Adaptive VIBE . It is an extended version of a reference point based spatial visualization algorithm , and is designed to serve as a user interaction module for a personalized search system . Personalized search can incorporate dynamic user interests and different contexts , improving search results . When it is combined with adaptive visualization , it can encourage users to become involved in the search process more actively by exploring the information space and learning new facts for effective searching . In this paper , we introduce the rationale and functions of our adaptive visualization approach and discuss the approaches’ potential to create a better search environment for the Web . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information filtering ; Relevance feedback ; H52 [ User Interfaces ] : Graphical user interfaces ( GUI ) General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Human Factors
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Web is suffering from information overload . It is a universal source for production as well as consumption of information . In particular , people are producing more and more new information due to the development of recent Web technologies such as Weblogs , Twitter , wikis , and other social networking services . One of the most popular and common solutions to this overload problem is searching . It aims to enable users to locate the information that they need quickly and precisely . However , it is still far from perfection and many researchers are still trying to improve existing search algorithms . Personalized search [ 3 ] is an approach to provide users with tailored search results , beyond the one size fitsall strategy . Exploratory search [ 2 ] is an idea that stresses the interaction between the user and the system , so that users can learn about the problem space while they are exploring it with the help of the system . Eventually , they will be able to locate the relevant information . Adaptive visual search is mixture of personalized and exploratory search , which tries to achieve the strengths of those
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
Figure 1 : Prototype implementation of the proposed adaptive visual search environment
Figure 2 : Adaptive VIBE layouts – adaptive ( b ) and ( c ) layouts separate the query ( yellow/left ) and the user model ( blue/right ) two extremes . It incorporates interactive and visual interfaces into personalized search and implements adaptive visualization for the personalized search framework . In order to realize this idea in the Web environment , we extended a well known visualization framework called VIBE ( Visual Information Browsing Environment ) [ 4 ] . It is a reference point based spatial visualization algorithm and has been deemed adequate to display search results – visualizing retrieved documents and queries . We re implemented the algorithm so that it can be more appropriate for the new Web environment . We extended it even more to realize an adaptive visualization and incorporated it into a personalized search system . Therefore , we were able to construct an adaptive visual search framework . We have named it “ Adaptive VIBE . ”
2 . ADAPTIVE VIBE FRAMEWORK
VIBE is a reference point ( Point of Interest , or POI) based visualization . That is , it displays the POIs that represent specific concepts or keywords , and distributes documents according to their similarity ratios to the POIs . Therefore , documents are placed closer
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1049 Figure 4 : Filtering documents from a POI the first place . We originally selected the POIs that have higher TFIDF scores . However , we felt a need to devise a more visualizationoriented approach . That is , we sought a new set of POIs to make the visualization better , and in this case , make the distribution of documents less cluttered . We solved this problem by calculating the average distance between the screen center and every document on the screen when a specific POI was removed . When a specific POI was removed from the entire set of POIs , and the average distance is reduced , that amount of reduction was considered as the contribution of the POI that made the visualization more spread across the screen . This spread_score was calculated for each POI ; the top N POIs with higher spread_scores were selected .
4 . SPATIAL USER INTERACTION
Adaptive VIBE was equipped with new functions that can help users to better explore the problem space interactively . These features change the methods of user interaction to go beyond the static text based ranked lists of conventional Web search engines .
Spatial filtering of retrieved documents – Users can select ( or filter ) documents spatially in the visualization using a marquee tool . Detailed information such as titles , surrogates , and the links to the fulltext of the selected documents are displayed . Because spatial distribution of the documents is tightly connected to the aboutness of the documents ( more about UM , query , or a specific POI ) , this selection tool can let users learn more promptly the contexts of the retrieved documents . Linking POI and document filtering by a double slider – Users can directly point to a POI and filter documents related to the POI ( and select/see the detailed information of the documents ) . They can specify the lower and upper similarity thresholds of the documents to the POI using a double slider ( Figure 4 ) . This function plays a similar role in the marquee selection method , but is expected to help users to select documents more precisely in a reverse direction , from a POI to documents . POI dock – Sometimes , too many POIs present at the same time on the screen can make users feel lost and frustrated . However , we cannot just limit the amount of information that users can access . Therefore , we added a special area where some POIs are temporarily moved out so that their effects on the visualization are disabled . We call it a POI dock , which is shown in Figure 1 next to the user model POIs . Users can drag POIs to/from this area and interactively examine the effect of each POI they are interested in .
5 . CONCLUSIONS
This paper introduces our efforts to implement an adaptive visual search framework for the Web . We have extended a well known spatial visualization algorithm to adaptive visualization and have investigated its effectiveness . The core features of this idea include user model visualization for personalized search , concept level user modeling , smart POI selection , and interactive spatial exploration . We are planning to conduct a full scale user study in the near future and to learn the strengths and the shortcomings of this approach .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J w Ahn and P . Brusilovsky . Adaptive visualization of search results : Bringing user models to visual analytics . Information Visualization , 8(3):167–179 , 2009 . [ 2 ] G . Marchionini . Exploratory search : from finding to understanding . Commun .
ACM , 49(4):41–46 , April 2006 .
[ 3 ] A . Micarelli , F . Gasparetti , F . Sciarrone , and S . Gauch . Personalized search on the world wide web . pages 195–230 . 2007 .
[ 4 ] K . A . Olsen , R . R . Korfhage , K . M . Sochats , M . B . Spring , and J . G . Williams . Visualization of a document collection : the vibe system . Inf . Process . Manage . , 29(1):69–81 , 1993 .
Figure 3 : Adaptive VIBE experiment – green and red squares mean relevant/irrelevant documents . to more similar POIs and users can discover documents by their proximity to a particular set of POIs . We added adaptivity to this foundational algorithm by changing the way the POIs are displayed ; it is implemented in Figure 1 . VIBE based IR visualization approaches usually use a radial layout for their initial placement of POIs ( Figure 2a ) . Like a round table , all POIs are equal in this scenario . However , our application requires that we distinguish between the two groups of documents retrieved by user models and by user queries . By this discrimination , users would be able to know which documents are more affected by the user queries and which documents are more about the user models . Here , the user model represents user interests or contexts and is comprised of a set of keywords collected during the system user interaction . We could achieve this discrimination by separating the groups of POIs spatially on the screen . Two new layouts ( b and c in Figure 2 ) attempt to locate two groups of POIs – query and user model POIs – in horizontally separate places and then break up the spaces between the two groups . Through this POI group separation , the documents under the effect of each group are separated spatially again and the users can easily investigate each cluster of documents to discover relevant information . Figure 3 is an example of search result visualization that could be benefit from this adaptivity . Thanks to the separation of the query and the user model , the documents formed two clusters : each of them contains irrelevant and relevant documents respectively , and the relevant one is closer to the user model . By following the document cluster closer to the user model , the user can locate relevant information quickly . We have conducted a preliminary experiment using an existing dataset and the details are shown in [ 1 ] .
IMPROVING VISUAL USER MODELS
3 . 3.1 Concept Level User Modeling
In our first implementation , the elements of the user models were always keywords ( or terms ) . Even though the keyword based user models were working relatively well , we expected that conceptbased user models would prove more helpful than the simple keywords . Therefore , we extracted named entities and used them as user model elements by showing them as POIs on the visualization . As in Figure 1 , users can examine and exploit more semantic rich named entities ( eg NORTHERN_FLEET painted in green ) for exploring the documents . 3.2 Smart POI Selection
The real estate on the screen is limited and the number of POIs that can be efficiently displayed at the same time is not very big . According to our experience , the maximum would be between 15 and 20 ; more POIs will make users frustrated and confused . Therefore , it is an important issue to select the POIs to be displayed in
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1050
