Entity Relation Discovery from Web Tables and Links
Cindy Xide Lin1 Bing Liu 2 ∗1Department of Computer Science , University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign , Urbana , IL 61801 , USA
Tim Weninger 1
Jiawei Han 1
Bo Zhao1
2Department of Computer Science , University of Illinois at Chicago , Chicago , IL 60607 , USA
1{xidelin2 , bozhao3 , weninge1}@uiuc.edu , 1hanj@csuiucedu , 2liub@csuicedu
ABSTRACT The World Wide Web consists not only of a huge number of unstructured texts , but also a vast amount of valuable structured data . Web tables [ 2 ] are a typical type of structured information that are pervasive on the web , and Web scale methods that automatically extract web tables have been studied extensively [ 1 ] . Many powerful systems ( eg , OCTOPUS [ 4 ] , Mesa [ 3 ] ) use extracted web tables as a fundamental component .
In the database vernacular , a table is defined as a set of tuples which have the same attributes . Similarly , a web table is defined as a set of rows ( corresponding to database tuples ) which have the same column headers ( corresponding to database attributes ) . Therefore , to extract a web table is to extract a relation on the web . In databases , tables often contain foreign keys which refer to other tables . Therefore , it follows that hyperlinks inside a web table sometimes function as foreign keys to other relations whose tuples are contained in the hyperlink ’s target pages . In this paper , we explore this idea by asking : can we discover new attributes for web tables by exploring hyperlinks inside web tables ?
This poster proposes a solution that takes a web table as input . Frequent patterns are generated as new candidate relations by following hyperlinks in the web table . The confidence of candidates are evaluated , and trustworthy candidates are selected to become new attributes for the table . Finally , we show the usefulness of our method by performing experiments on a variety of web domains .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Retrieval models
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Web Table , Link , Entity Relation Discovery
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The World Wide Web is traditionally modeled as a collection of unstructured documents , but recently , efforts have been made ∗ This work was supported in part by NASA grant NNX08AC35A , the US NSF grant IIS 09 05215 , and an HP Research grant . The first and the third authors were supported by the Microsoft Women ’s Scholarship and NDSEG Fellowship , respectively .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . to account for the structural and relational nature of the Web . For example , the table shown in Figure 1 consists of ‘employees’ in an academic department . This table has four columns , each with a domain specific label and type , wherein the ‘name’ column contains a group of hyperlinks pointing to the homepage of the listed person . As noted by Cafarella et al . [ 2 ] , this web table essentially is a small relational database , even if it lacks the explicit meta data traditionally associated with a database .
This poster explores hyperlinks which are contained in web tables for discovering new entity relations . Again consider the table in Figure 1 , the professors listed in the table have links to their homepages , and these homepages contain information regarding ‘teaching’ , ‘publications’ , etc . , but in slightly different forms with different descriptions . If we can find pieces of common information in these professors’ homepages , then we would be able to expand the web table so that each piece of common information becomes a new attribute . Common information could be from contents , hyperlinks , structures and/or metadata of the homepages ( however , this poster only considers hyperlink information ) . In this example , ‘teaching’ and/or ‘acm publication’ could be new attributes . Furthermore , by observing which tuples contain the new attributes , ‘employees’ could further be classified into ‘professor’ and ‘staff’ . Our motivations are : ( i ) current methods retrieve web tables that are visually expressed in one HTML page , and there is limited experience on discovering attributes across pages ; ( ii ) Due to the fact that a reliable entity group facilitates the discovery of relations , tuples in a web table are ( usually ) a trustworthy entity group , which supplies guidance for relation discovery ; ( iii ) The discovery of table attributes and relations will mutually help each other .
Name Deepayan Chakrabarti Anthony K . H . Tung Evaggelia Pitoura Donna Coleman Cindy Lin Jordan Vieyra
Title Professor Professor Professor Staff Staff Staff
Office Rm 2123 Rm 3115 Rm 4407 Rm 2124 Rm 3116 Rm 4406 A web table of employees
Email dee@usa.edu ant@usa.edu eva@usa.edu don@usa.edu cin@usa.edu jor@usa.edu
Professor Rm 2123
Professor Rm 3115
Professor Rm 4407
Teaching Graph Mining ACM Publications Deepayan Chakrabarti
Teaching Courses Data Mining My ACM Publications Anthony K . H . Tung
Teaching Courses Database Systems My ACM Publications Evaggelia Pitoura
Figure 1 : A Motivating Example
The remaining problem is : can we discover new attributes by traditional methods of relation extraction ? The answer is probably no . There have been extensive studies in this area [ 6 , 7 ] , which have developed techniques that are powerful in many cases . However , in the above example , even though these methods may successfully extract the general ‘teaching’ relation , they may not extract the less general ’acm publication’ relations . Instead , it will probably be omitted because it is a noun phrase or because of data sparseness . The underlying reason is that these methods aim to extract general relations , and therefore lack the capabilities to discover relations specific to a table which may not be common to the whole web .
2 . THE ALGORITHM
A a1 a2 a3 a4
C c1 c2 c3 c4
B b1 b2 b3 b4 Web Table
D d1 d2 d3 d4
Classifier
Feedback
Relations
Extractor
A a2 a4
B b2 b4
C c2 c4
D d2 d4
Set of Tuples
DB
Miner
Evaluator
Candidates
Figure 2 : The General Framework
An entity relation is a triple ( ei , r , ej ) , where ei and ej denote two entity types and r denotes their relation . Figure 2 depicts the general framework : i . Given a web table , a classifier roughly selects tuples that belong to the entity type ei . Such filtering may be inaccuracy . ii . We examine table columns one by one for selected tuples . For a particular table column , we gather the destination pages ( abbreviated as P ) of hyperlinks in the column , and collect hyperlinks on P to form a transactional database D , where a transaction dk ∈ D is a bag of words of any hyperlinkassociated information ( in this poster we use hyperlink anchor text and hyperlink context ) . iii . We adopt a frequent pattern mining approach to generate frequent itemsets from D , and regard each itemset as a candidate relation . iv . For each candidate r , the trustworthiness ( denoted as trust(r ) ) is evaluated . v . The classifier is updated by adding r into the classifier ’s feature set .
This procedure repeats iteratively until the trustworthiness converges . Finally , candidates whose trustworthiness are larger than a pre defined threshold become new relations . In the remainder of this section , we discuss issues of several components .
The classifier in component ( i ) . A standard classifier can be adopted here , such as Naive Bayes or SVM . The feature set could be collected from DOM tree structures , pre defined rules , table contents and/or even discovered relations including r .
The miner in component ( iii ) . Pattern growth based mining approaches [ 5 ] are favored because they are more scalable than , say , Apriori . Pruning techniques can also be used , eg , require a maximum pattern length , remove patterns with low IDFs , or require a minimum ratio of tuples that point to at least one hyperlink containing r .
The evaluator in component ( iv ) . There is more than one way to evaluate the trustworthiness of a candidate relation . In this poster , we employ a classifier C to label hyperlinks as belonging to the relation r or not , and the trustworthiness of r corresponds to the discriminativeness of the classifier .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
The experimental datasets are HTML pages crawled from four websites , ie , wwwcsuiucedu , cisksuedu , esteelauder.com and senate.gov , downloaded in Jan . 2010 , among which UIUC and KSU are academic department sites , ESTEE is a cosmetics site , and SENATE is a government site . We select the four datasets to demonstrate that our method works on diverse web domains .
In all , the four datasets contain 65,452 pages , 1,018,510 hyperlinks and 104,596 web tables , where 44.09 % of the tables contain hyperlinks . These statistics empirically confirm our motivation : the World Wide Web has a vast amount of web tables which are valuable structured data , and hyperlinks widely exist in web tables . i i n o s c e r P
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
KSU UIUC ESTEE SENATE
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Recall
Figure 3 : The Precision Recall Curve
The average numbers of generated candidates for each web table in UIUC , KSU , ESTEE and SENATE are 108.2 , 92.5 , 20.1 and 66.0 , respectively . The reason ESTEE has a smaller number of candidates is because of the relatively limited vocabulary of cosmetics . A web table is selected from each of the 4 datasets , from which the gold standard is created by manually extracting new attributes . We rank candidates of each web table according to their trustworthiness , and show the precision recall performance in Figure 3 . We observe that the precisions of all datasets are generally high , which confirms our hypothesis that a reliable entity group facilitates the discovery of relations . In terms of recall , some relations are missed because page authors sometimes express the same meaning using different words . We may be able to improve recall if prior knowledge on word correlations is given .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] G Miao , J . Tatemura , W P Hsiung , A.Sawires and LE
Moser , Extractingdatarecordsfromthewebusingtagpath clusteringIn WWW , p981 990 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] MJ Cafarella , AY Halevy , DZ Wang , E . Wu and Y .
Zhang , WebTables : exploringthepoweroftablesonthe web , In VLDB , p538 549 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] S . Mergen , J . Freire and C . Heuser Mesa : ASearchEngine forQueryingWebTables , In SBBD , demo , 2008 .
[ 4 ] MJ Cafarella , AY Halevy and N . Khoussainova , Data IntegrationfortheRelationalWeb , VLDB , p1090 1101 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] J . Han and J . Pei , MiningFrequentPatternsby
Pattern Growth : MethodologyandImplications , In SIGKDD Exploration , p13 20 , 2000
[ 6 ] A . Yates , M . Banko , M . Broadhead , MJ Cafarella , O .
Etzioni and S . Soderland , TextRunner : OpenInformation ExtractionontheWeb , In HLT NAACL , p25 26 , 2007 .
[ 7 ] A . Culotta , A . McCallum and J . Betz , Integrating
ProbabilisticExtractionModelsandDataMiningtoDiscover RelationsandPatternsinText , In HLT NAACL , 2006 .
