Exploring Searcher Interactions for Distinguishing Types of
Commercial Intent
Qi Guo
Emory University qguo3@mathcsemoryedu
Eugene Agichtein
Emory University eugene@mathcsemoryedu
ABSTRACT An improved understanding of the relationship between search intent , result quality , and searcher behavior is crucial for improving the effectiveness of web search . While recent progress in user behavior mining has been largely focused on aggregate server side click logs , we present a new search behavior model that incorporates finegrained user interactions with the search results . We show that mining these interactions , such as mouse movements and scrolling , can enable more effective detection of the user ’s search intent . Potential applications include automatic search evaluation , improving search ranking , result presentation , and search advertising . As a case study , we report results on distinguishing between “ research ” and “ purchase ” variants of commercial intent , that show our method to be more effective than the current state of the art . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Storage and Retrieval General Terms Design , Experimentation , Performance Keywords user intent inference ; search behavior modeling
1 .
INTRODUCTION
An improved understanding of searcher needs and interests is crucial for search engines to generate satisfactory search results , with applications ranging from search evaluation to improving search ranking , presentation , and usability . While previous studies have shown the effectiveness of eye tracking to identify user interests , unfortunately , eye tracking requires expensive equipment , limiting its applicability to the laboratory setting . In this paper we attempt to infer web searcher intent by modeling mousing , clicking , scrolling , and other client side behavioral clues that are available on a wide range of computing devices . For this , we attempt to learn a correspondence from eye tracking data obtained in a lab , to the real behavior of users “ in the wild ” that is , when engaged in natural web search tasks .
What makes the problem particularly daunting is that the same query may reflect different intents not only for different users [ 6 ] , but even for the same user at different times [ 3 ] . As a concrete example , consider how users with research intent examine the search engine result page ( SERP ) for a query “ nikkor 24 70 review ” . This query is commercial ( the searcher is probably considering whether to buy this digital camera model ) , but could also be research oriented
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
( the searcher is interested in reviews , and not yet in making an immediate purchase ) . Figure 1 ( a ) shows the gaze position “ heat map ” ( different colors represent amount of time spent examining the corresponding page position ) . Figure 1 ( b ) shows the mouse movements performed by the subject as they were examining the SERP . This example illustrates the possible connection between user interactions on the SERP and interest in specific results or types of results , and can be more revealing than the keywords of the query or clicks on the result links .
Previous work ( eg , [ 1 ] ) addressed the detection of commercial intent in the aggregate . Another dimension of work somewhat similar in approach to ours considered query chains and browsing behavior to infer document relevance ( eg , [ 5] ) . The work that is closest to ours in spirit ( eg , [ 4] ) , attempted to capture and identify user goals based on the query context . In contrast , our work explores the value of automatic mining of client side interactions – contextualized within a search session – for detecting searcher intent .
( a )
( b )
Figure 1 : Searcher gaze position and corresponding mouse trajectory ( Research intent ) Our Task : the goal is to detect , given a user ’s behavior on a SERP , whether the query had research or purchase intent . That is , each search and corresponding SERP was labeled as part of “ research ” or “ purchase ” intent ; therefore , this is a test of our model to be able to correctly recover the original intent of the searcher .
Next , we introduce our techniques ( Section 2 ) followed by pre liminary experimental results and discussion ( Section 3 ) .
2 . SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
We represent the user as a non deterministic state machine where the emissions are the observable actions , and the user intent and search goals as the hidden states in the model . Therefore , searcher actions such as queries , result/ad clicks , mouse movements and button presses are observations generated by the hidden states . For example , ad clicks are more likely to be emitted if the user is in a
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1107 purchase state , and less likely if the user is in a research state . Similarly , the emission probabilities of other observations would vary over different hidden states . Hence , we hypothesize that observations including the search context and user interactions are related to the intent states of the users .
Specifically , we consider the following information sources and the corresponding feature representations . Each feature group is described below to the extent permitted by space limitations . Complete feature specification and the dataset for our experiments is available online1for reproducibility . Query group : This group of features is designed to capture the same information as was used in the previous studies of capturing clicks in the context of previous and subsequent queries [ 4 , 5 ] . Specifically , we include features such as query length , and unigram ( token ) list for query and query URL tokens . SERPContent : These features represent the text ( and markup ) content of the SERPs , specifically , the unigram ( token ) set of terms and markup in the SERP . ResultQuality : These features are to capture coarse information about the SERP connection to the query , namely : how many words in result snippets match the query terms , how many words in search ad text match the query terms , as well as the number of ads . Interaction : The features include time from page load until the first move or UI event , dwell time , mouse trajectory length , vertical and horizontal range . We also capture more precise physiological characteristics , such as speed , acceleration , rotation of the mouse movements . Click : Captures the types and properties of result clicks and SERP revisits , features include : tokens in the clicked URL , whether the click is a Bounce click[7 ] , a SAT click[2 ] , number of URLs visited after a result click , average and total dwell times on each visited result URL , click type , etc . Context : Captures where the search belongs within a task context : for example , position of search in the task ( eg , initial query vs . 3rd one ) , whether the query was issued within same session , and whether the query is the initial query in session , whether the query is identical to previous query , whether the query is reformulation , expansion or contraction . The compared methods are as following : • Baseline : always guess the majority class ( Research ) . • QC : similar to the state of the art query chains models ( eg , [ 5 , 4] ) , implemented using Query group features and trained using the SVM classifier .
• SVM ( All ) : implemented using all group features and trained us ing the SVM classifier .
3 . RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
We performed a user study where 10 subjects were asked to have two intents : purchasing ( that is , to attempt to “ buy ” an item of immediate interest to the subject ) , and research ( that is , to “ research ” an item of interest to the subject , for some future purchase ) . The subjects were not restricted on time , and all the interactions , as well as gaze position , were tracked using the EyeTech TM3 integrated eye tracker , with actual sampling rate of approximately 30Hz . All the subjects were graduate and undergraduate students and university staff , that is , were technically savvy and had some experience with web search . To collect the data , we developed a simple Firefox plugin to capture the mouse movements and other user action events on search result pages .
We now report the results for detecting whether the searcher had research or purchase intent . We used the searches from 7 of the 10 1At http://irmathcsemoryedu/intent/data/ subjects as training and the searches from the other 3 subjects as test . Also , we used standard defined Precision , Recall and Macroaveraged F1 as metrics . Table 1 shows that our system SVM ( All ) substantially outperforms both baselines , including the QC ( query chains ) baseline , resulting in accuracy of almost 82 % and precision ( on identifying Research intent ) of 92 % .
To identify the most important features contributing to our performance , we performed feature ablation by removing one feature group at a time from the classifier ( Table 2 ) . All the feature groups provide significant contributions . The most important features appear to be ResultQuality and Context features : with these features removed , accuracy degrades to 70.5 % from 82 % with these features included . We conjecture that ResultQuality and Context features help interpret user behavior by indicating whether the searcher is succeeding in the search intent . Further investigation and additional user study is needed to fully understand the connection between various feature groups ; our work is just a first step in the right direction .
Method
Acc . ( % )
Research
Purchase
Prec .
Recall
F1
Baseline QC SVM ( All ) Table 1 : Main Results for Predicting Research vs . Purchase
39.7 56.8 80.8
65.9 56.8 81.8
86.7 86.7
0
43.3 68.4
0
Prec . 65.9 85.7 92.0
Recall 100 41.4 79.3
Method
Acc . ( % )
Research
Purchase
F1
70.6 SVM ( Query ) 74.3 SVM ( SERPContent ) 69.7 SVM ( ResultQuality ) 70.6 SVM ( Click ) 74.3 SVM ( Interaction ) 70.1 SVM ( Context ) Table 2 : Feature Ablation Results for Predicting Research vs . Purchase
72.7 75 70.5 72.7 75 70.5
Rec . 75.9 69.0 65.5 75.9 69.0 62.1
Prec . 58.8 59.1 54.5 58.8 59.1 54.2
Prec . 81.5 90.9 86.4 81.5 90.9 90.0
Rec . 66.7 86.7 80.0 66.7 86.7 86.7
In summary , we have shown that by modeling interactions in context we can substantially improve the prediction of research vs . purchase intent of the user . The presented work is just a first step in contextualized user interaction modeling , eventually enabling more accurate intent inference , personalization , and targeted content delivery for the next generation of search . In the future , we plan to expand our model to consider user interactions and page context other than the search result pages . In particular , we plan to incorporate the interactions on the intermediate result pages visited between successive searches , which may provide additional contextual information . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . K . Dai , L . Zhao , Z . Nie , J R Wen , L . Wang , and Y . Li . Detecting online commercial intention ( oci ) . In Proc . of WWW , 2006 .
[ 2 ] S . Fox , K . Karnawat , M . Mydland , S . Dumais , and T . White . Evaluating implicit measures to improve web search . ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 23(2 ) , 2005 .
[ 3 ] Q . Guo , E . Agichtein , C . L . A . Clarke , and A . Ashkan . In the mood to click ? towards inferring receptiveness to search advertising . In Proc . of WI , 2009 .
[ 4 ] B . Piwowarski , G . Dupret , and R . Jones . Mining user web search activity with layered bayesian networks or how to capture a click in its context . In Proc . of WSDM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] F . Radlinski and T . Joachims . Query chains : learning to rank from implicit feedback . In Proc . of KDD , 2005 .
[ 6 ] D . E . Rose and D . Levinson . Understanding user goals in web search . In
Proc . of WWW , 2004 .
[ 7 ] D . Sculley , R . G . Malkin , S . Basu , and R . J . Bayardo . Predicting bounce rates in sponsored search advertisements . In Proc . of KDD , 2009 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1108
