Retagging Social Images Based on Visual and Semantic
Consistency∗
Dong Liu† , Xian Sheng Hua‡ , Meng Wang‡ , Hong Jiang Zhang§
† School of Computer Sci . & Tec . , Harbin Institute of Technology , Harbin , 150001 , PRChina
‡ Microsoft Research Asia , Beijing , 100190 , PRChina
§ Microsoft Advanced Technology Center , Beijing , 100190 , PRChina dongliuhit@gmailcom,{xshua,mengwang,hjzhang}@microsoftcom
ABSTRACT The tags on social media websites such as Flickr are frequently imprecise and incomplete , thus there is still a gap between these tags and the actual content of the images . This paper proposes a social image “ retagging ” scheme that aims at assigning images with better content descriptors . The refining process is formulated as an optimization framework based on the consistency between “ visual similarity ” and “ semantic similarity ” in social images . An effective iterative bound optimization algorithm is applied to learn the optimal tag assignment . In addition , as many tags are intrinsically not closely related to the visual content of the images , we employ a knowledge based method to differentiate visual content related from unrelated tags and then constrain the tagging vocabulary of our automatic algorithm within the content related tags . Experimental results on a Flickr image collection demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Performance
Keywords Image Tagging , Tag Refinement , Retagging
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online media repositories allow users to upload their media data and annotate them with freely chosen tags . Despite the high popularity of tagging social images manually , the tags are often imprecise , biased and incomplete for describing the content of the images , which have significantly limited the performance of social image search and organization [ 1 ] .
In this work , we propose an optimization framework to improve the tag quality based on the following two observations in real world social images . First , consistency between ∗
This work was performed at Microsoft Research Asia .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . visual similarity and semantic similarity , that is , similar images often reflect similar semantic theme , and thus are annotated with similar tags . Second , user provided tags , despite imperfect , still reveal the primary semantic theme of the image content . In our approach , the improved tag assignments are automatically learned by maximizing the consistency between visual similarity and semantic similarity while minimizing the deviation from initially user provided tags . This is actually using information from different channels to complement each other in a collective way .
However , the first observation mentioned above is mainly applicable for “ content related ” tags . That is , those tags that have high correspondence with the visual content . If we introduce “ content unrelated ” tags into the above optimization framework , we may even degrade the performance of the scheme . Accordingly , we propose a method to filter out those content unrelated tags to ensure that the quality of content related tags can be significantly improved .
2 . TAG FILTERING
We perform tag filtering by taking advantage of lexical and domain knowledge . First , from the part of speech of words , we only consider nouns . Thus we restrict ourselves in the noun set of WordNet lexicon [ 2 ] , which contains 114 , 648 noun entries and the tags that are out of this set will not be considered .
Then we further analyze the noun tags and adopt an automatic process to detect visual property of the tags . We first empirically select a set of high level categories including “ organism ” , “ artifact ” , “ thing ” , “ color ” and “ natural phenomenon ” as a taxonomy of our domain knowledge in vision field . Then the detection process can be implemented based on the WordNet lexicon which contains an implicit structure among words . For each noun entry in WordNet lexicon , we traverse along the path that is composed of hypernyms of the given word until one of the pre defined visual categories is matched . If the match succeeds , the word is decided as content related , and otherwise it is decided as content unrelated .
3 . TAG REFINEMENT
Denote by D = {x1 , x2 , . . . , xn} a social image collection . All unique tags appearing in this collection are T = {t1 , t2 , . . . , tm} . The initial tag membership for the whole image collection can be presented in a binary matrix .Y ∈ {0 , 1}n×m whose element .Yij indicates the membership of tag tj with respect to image xi . To represent the refinement
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1149 results , we define another matrix Y whose element Yij ≥ 0 denotes the confidence score of assigning tag tj to image xi . Denote by yi = ( yi1 , yi2 , . . . , yim ) . the confidence score vector of assigning the tags to the i th image . Let W denote a similarity matrix whose element Wij indicates the visual similarity between images xi and xj , which can be directly computed via Wij = exp(−ff xi − xj ff2/σ2 ) . The semantic similarity of two images is defined based on their tag sets . We introduce the tag similarity matrix S , in which the element Sij ≥ 0 indicates the tag similarity between tags ti and tj . In this work , we adopt Lin ’s similarity measure [ 4 ] and define the semantic similarity of images by a weighted dot product , ie,y
YikSklYjl . fim
. i Syj = k,l=1
According to our consistency assumption , the visual similarity is expected to be close to semantic similarity , ie , . Wij ≈ y i Syj . We then consider the assumption that userprovided tags are relevant with high probability . Here we introduce the minimization of where αj is a scaling factor . Formally , we can summarize the above two assumptions into the following optimization problem : fim l=1(Yjl−αj
Yjl)2exp(Yjl ) , fin j=1 n' m' min Y ,α
L =
( Wij − m' i,j=1 n'
Yik SklYjl)2 k,l=1
+C
( Yjl − αj j=1 l=1
Yjl)2exp(Yjl )
( 1 ) st Yjl , αj ≥ 0 , i , j = 1 , 2 , . . . , n , k , l = 1 , 2 , . . . , m where C is a weighting factor to modulate the two terms .
In this work , we propose an efficient iterative bound optimization method to obtain its solution , which is analogous to [ 5 ] . The algorithm can be seen in our previous work [ 6 ] .
4 . EMPIRICAL STUDY
We collect a Flickr image collection consisting of 50 , 000 images and 106 , 565 unique tags . For each image , we extract 428 dimensional features , including 225 dimensional blockwise color moment features generated from 5 by 5 fixed partition of the image , 128 dimensional wavelet texture features , and 75 dimensional edge distribution histogram .
We first perform tag filtering on the Flickr dataset and obtain 4 , 556 content related tags . Then the proposed tag refinement method is evaluated within the filtered vocabulary . The radius parameter σ in visual similarity estimation is set to the median value of all the pairwise Euclidean distances between images . The parameter C in Eq 1 is empirically set to 10 . We compare the following three methods :
• Baseline , ie , keeping the original tags .
• Content Based Annotation Refinement ( CBAR ) . We adopt the method proposed in [ 3 ] .
• Our tag refinement method .
Note that actually CBAR and our tag refinement method both produce confidence scores for tags . Therefore , for these two methods we rank the tags of each image based on their confidence scores and then keep the top m tags where m is the number of the original tags . The ground truths of the tags are voted by three volunteers . If a tag is relevant to the image , it is labeled as positive , and otherwise it is negative .
However , manually labeling all the image tag pairs will be too labor intensive , and thus here we randomly select 2 , 500 images as the evaluation set . We adopt precision/recall/F1measure as performance measurements . But a problem is that the estimation of recall measurement needs to know the full set of relevant tags for each image , but in our case it is unknown . So here we adopt an alternative strategy . We gather the tags obtained by CBAR and our method as well as the original tags for each image , and then the positive tags among them are regarded as the full relevant set .
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Initial CBAR Our Method
Average Precision
Average Recall
Average F1−Measure
Figure 1 : Performance comparison of the baseline and the two tag refinement methods .
Fig 1 shows the precision , recall and F1 measure measurements obtained by the three methods , averaged over all evaluation images . We can see that CBAR and our method both outperform the baseline method , but the improvement of CBAR is limited . This is due to the fact that visual information has not been sufficiently explored in CBAR . Our tag refinement method performs much better than the baseline and the CBAR methods .
5 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we have introduced an image retagging scheme that aims at improving the quality of the tags associated with social images in terms of content relevance . Experiments on real world social image dataset have demonstrated its effectiveness .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Liu , X . S . Hua , L . J . Yang , M . Wang and H . J . Zhang . Tag Ranking . In Proceeding of ACM International World Wide Web Conference , 2009 .
[ 2 ] C . Fellbaum . Wordnet : An Electronic Lexical Database .
Bradford Books , 1998 .
[ 3 ] C . Wang , F . Jing , L . Zhang and H . J . Zhang .
Content Based Image Annotation Refinement . In Proceeding of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , 2007 .
[ 4 ] D . Lin . Using Syntatic Dependency as a Local Context to Resolve Word Sense Ambiguity . In Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 1997 .
[ 5 ] Y . Liu , R . Jin and L . Yang . Semi supervised Multi label
Learning by Constrained Non Negative Matrix Factorization . In Proceedings of the 21st National Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 2006 .
[ 6 ] D . Liu , M . Wang , L . Yang , X S Hua and H . J . Zhang . Tag
Quality Improvement for Social Images . In International Conference on Multimedia & Expo , 2009 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1150
