Analyzing Content Level Properties of the Web
Adversphere
Yong Wang1 , Daniel Burgener2
Aleksandar Kuzmanovic3 , Gabriel Maciá Fernández4
1 University of Electronic Science and Technology of China , Chengdu , Sichuan , China
2 3 Northwestern University , Evanston , IL , USA
4 University of Granada , Granada , Spain
1 ywang@uestceducn , 2 danielburgener2007@unorthwesternedu
3 akuzma@csnorthwesternedu , 4 gmacia@ugr.es ∗
ABSTRACT Advertising has become an integral and inseparable part of the World Wide Web . However , neither public auditing nor monitoring mechanisms still exist in this emerging area . In this paper , we present our initial efforts on building a content level auditing service for web based ad networks . Our content level measurements – understanding the ad distribution mechanisms and evaluating location based and behavioral targeting approaches – bring useful auditing information to all entities involved in the online advertising business . We extensively evaluate Google ’s , AOL ’s , and Adblade ’s ad networks and demonstrate how their different design philosophies dominantly affect their performance at the content level . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H35 [ INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL ] : On line Information Services General Terms : Measurement , Performance Keywords : Behavioral Targeting , Location based Advertising , Web based Ad Network
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Advertising is thriving on the Web [ 1 ] . Understanding which ads are served at given publisher sites , and how well they match the site ’s content or the user ’s profile , is important for evaluating a commissioner ’s effectiveness in bringing the right content to the right audience . In addition , revealing the ties that exist between publishers and commissioners is important for establishing the necessary public auditing mechanisms in this domain . Finally , gaining insights about the prevalence and effectiveness of location based and behavioral ad targeting applied by various commissioners can provide useful auditing information to end users . Moreover , such insights can provide invaluable information to advertisers and publishers when choosing which commissioners to work with . Our key contribution lies in developing an ad monitoring system and in demonstrating that it is capable of effectively screening ad networks at scale . The system and methodologies we present in this paper are the rudiments
∗This work is supported by China Scholarship Council , NSF CAREER Award no . 0746360 , and Spanish MEC project TEC2008 06663 C03 02 ( 70 % FEDER funds ) .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . of the content level Web auditing service that we intend to design for the Internet .
2 . DISTRIBUTION MECHANISMS
We recruit 282 servers from PlanetLab , which are geographically distributed in 36 different countries , to analyze the mechanisms of distributing ads . For each vantage point , we calculate the ’local’ similarity between itself and any other vantage point in terms of the percentage of identical ads observed in both vantage points . In addition , we also compute the ’global’ similarity of each commissioner by averaging the ’local’ similarities for all vantage points when accessing this commissioner ’s ads . We evaluate Google , AOLAdsonar , and Adblade ad networks , since they support textbased ads that can be feasibly retrieved from the Web .
Table 1 shows that Adblade ’s global similarity is higher than that of AOL Adsonar , which is in turn higher than Google . A probable cause for such sequence is that Adblade uses a single machine ( or a cluster ) to serve the requests ; as this machine serves the whole pool of ads , it is expected that , after enough requests to publisher sites , all destinations ( vantage points ) receive all ads independently of their location ( high similarity ) . AOL Adsonar uses the Akamai CDN network to distribute ads . As the essence of a CDN network is to share the same content over CDN servers , all vantage points share a relatively high similarity . In the Google case , Google has its own private network and , hence , the full control on the methods of distributing ads . Consequently , different vantage points that fetch ads from different ad servers experience a low similarity .
Figure 1 shows the ’local’ similarity among all vantage points . For each vantage point on the x axis , a vertical ’s tripe’ corresponding to a value on the x axis shows the similarities between this vantage point and others . The darker the color in a given ( x,y ) box is , the larger the similarity between x and y is . Coherently with the results shown in Table 1 , the figure shows that the ’local’ similarities in the Google case are relatively low . This implies that Google has a large pool of ads and distributes different ads into different servers . On the other extreme , the similarities in the Adblade case are quite high . We consider that this is because Adblade has a smaller pool of ads and puts all of them in the same machine ( a cluster of machines ) .
Table 1 : Global Similarity of each commissioner
Commissioner Global similarity ( % )
Google
AOL Adsonar
Adblade
13.16 59.31 72.62
( a ) Google
( b ) AOL Adsonar
( c ) Adblade s t i n o p e g a t n a V
Vantage points
]
%
[ s e i t i r a l i m S i s t i n o p e g a t n a V
Vantage points
]
%
[ s e i t i r a l i m S i s t i n o p e g a t n a V
]
%
[ s e i t i r a l i m S i
Vantage points
Figure 1 : Local similarities among vantage points
3 . LOCATION BASED ADVERTISING
Commissioners could send ads containing information related to the geographical location of the Web users [ 2 ] . These ’localized’ ads are more likely to target potential customers . Here , we quantify the percentage of vantage points in which the use of location based advertising is observed ( Table 2 ) . In particular , we count once for the first column if we could observe a match at a vantage point at city level , or the second column if the match is at the precision of state level , or the third column if no association exists between the location of a vantage point and the texts of all of its ads . Thus , we compute the percentage of vantage points at which locationbased advertising is observed .
Table 2 shows that the coverage of location based advertising in the Google case ( 31.38 % + 21.93 % = 53.31 % ) is wider than in the Adblade case ( 37.31% ) , which is in turn larger than in the AOL Adsonar case ( 8.00 % + 12.00 % = 2000 % ) This sequence makes sense because Adblade and AOL Adsonar only apply location based advertising in most areas of US In Google case , since Google has the advertising business all over the world , exploiting the same locationbased technology is quite feasible .
4 . BEHAVIORAL TARGETING
Many commissioners claim to be able to more effectively reach users with behaviorally targeted ads [ 3 ] . We want to examine the extent to which commissioners participate in behavioral targeting . We decide to use the interest category “ sports ” in our tests of behavioral targeting because many websites in this category work for each commissioner . We first disable cookies on our PlanetLab nodes in order to prevent behavioral targeting , and then visit websites known to work with the commissioner that fit in the category “ sports ” . After visiting the websites to establish a browsing pattern , we then retrieve the text based ads from the previous list of websites , which may or may not be related to sports , and scan them for sports related keywords . We use about 30 keywords here to classify the “ sports ” category , eg , sport , cycling , etc .
After establishing this baseline , we then repeat this experiment with cookies enabled , in order to determine the difference when behavioral targeting is used . If a company uses behavioral targeting , then we should receive a higher occurrence of sports related ads after establishing our interest in sports . This is referred to in Table 3 as “ Local cookie ” as the cookie is established locally for each computer . Table 2 : % of vantage points observing locationbased ads
Commissioners City ( % ) State ( % ) No association ( % )
Google
AOL Adsonar
Adblade
31.58 8.00 37.31
21.93 12.00 0.00
46.49 80.00 62.69
We finally repeat this experiment by browsing the same path from a local computer , copying the cookies from that computer to all PlanetLab nodes , and then retrieving the ads again . The purpose of this experiment is to give us an understanding of whether user profile information is geographically distributed or merely stored on the closest ad server to a user . This is referred to in Table 3 as “ Uniform cookie ” as the same cookie is distributed to all computers .
Table 3 shows the percentage increase of sports related ads over the experiment without cookies . Our results show that both Google and AOL Adsonar use behavioral targeting for the “ sports ” interest category , whereas Adblade does not . Google shows a 25 % increase when cookies are enabled , and AOL Adsonar shows a 13 % increase . The increases when a uniform cookie is distributed are fairly negligible ( 3 % and 5 % for Google and AOL Adsonar respectively ) . Apparently , both Google and AOL Adsonar associate a user profile with interest categories only on a local machine , as the uniform cookie case shows very little increase over the situation without any behavioral targeting at all . Table 3 : Incremental percentage of observed ’s port’ related ads when behavioral targeting is enabled ( ’local/uniform cookie’ ) comparing with disabled ( ’no cookie’ )
Local cookie ( % ) Uniform cookie ( % )
Google
AOL Adsonar
Adblade
25 13 0
5 . CONCLUSIONS
3 5 0
In this paper , we deployed a web ad auditing system that can be universally applied to arbitrary commissioners’ networks to effectively monitor and help regulate Web based ad industry . Using this system , we performed a contentlevel analysis of three representative ad networks with divergent design philosophies , which range from distributing a large number of data centers ( Google ) , to using CDN services ( AOL ) , to standing up servers at a single location ( Adblade ) . We find that the explored commissioners deploy location based and behavioral ad targeting at various levels of granularity .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Google attracting 25 % of online ad revenue . http://wwwsearchenginejournalcom/google attracting 25of online ad revenue/3910/
[ 2 ] H . Xu , L . Oh , and H . Teo . Perceived effectiveness of text vs . multimedia location based advertising messaging . Int . J . Mob . Commun . , 7(2 ) , 2009 .
[ 3 ] J . Yan , N . Liu , G . Wang , W . Zhang , Y . Jiang , and Z . Chen . How much can behavioral targeting help online advertising ? In WWW ’09 .
