SNDocRank : Document Ranking Based on Social
Networks
Liang Gou1 , Hung Hsuan Chen2 , Jung Hyun Kim2 , Xiaolong "Luke" Zhang1 , C . Lee Giles1,2
Information Sciences and Technology1 , Computer Science and Engineering2
The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , PA , 16802 , USA
{lug129 , hhchen , jzk171}@psu.edu , {lzhang , giles}@istpsuedu
ABSTRACT To improve the search results for socially connect users , we propose a ranking framework , Social Network Document Rank ( SNDocRank ) . This framework considers both document contents and the similarity between a searcher and document owners in a social network and uses a Multi level Actor Similarity ( MAS ) algorithm to efficiently calculate user similarity in a social network . Our experiment results based on YouTube data show that compared with the tf idf algorithm , the SNDocRank method returns more relevant documents of interest . Our findings suggest that in this framework , a searcher can improve search by joining larger social networks , having more friends , and connecting larger local communities in a social network .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – relevance feedbacks , retrieval models , selection process .
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Human Factors .
Keywords Ranking , Social Networks , Information Retrieval , Multilevel Actor Similarity .
1 . INTRODUCTION Ranking algorithms play a critical role in searching engines and research continues on the investigation of ranking algorithms . Some algorithms are user neutral and measure the importance and relevance of documents mainly based on the contents and relationships of documents . Some personalized ranking methods have been proposed to improve search results by including various types of user information [ 5 ] . However , these algorithms largely focus on local activities of searchers , and fail to embrace the large social contexts of searchers . When users are engaged in social networks through services ( eg , Facebook , Flickr , and YouTube ) to communicate and share information with their friends , family , and colleagues , their social networks may provide richer and more reliable clues about the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . purposes and interests of their information search . To leverage these social contexts of searchers , we propose a new framework for personalized ranking , Social Network Document Rank ( SNDocRank ) , which considers a searcher ’s social network in ranking the relevancy of documents . The premise of our methodology is that : 1 ) users tend to friend with those who share common interests , and 2 ) users are more interested in information from friends than from others . We also propose a Multilevel Actor Similarity ( MAS ) method to efficiently calculate user similarity in large social networks . 2 . SNDocRank FRAMEWORK SNDocRank is a framework to rank the relevant documents based on the actor similarity of a searcher and other users in a social network . In this section , we first present the concept of SNDocRank . Then , we introduce our multi level actor similarity ( MAS ) method to reduce the time complexity in calculating the actor similarity in our ranking method . 2.1 SNDocRank In the SNDocRank framework , the ranking function is a combination of the basic term document similarity function , such as tf idf [ 6 ] score , and social network actor similarity . SNDocRank first identifies the user who issues the queries , and ranks the search result based on the similarity scores with others in the user ’s social network . Thus , SNDocRank score is given by
SNDoc v t d
( ,
, i
)
= j f sim t d (
(
, i
) ,
S j vu
,
) where v is the current user , ti is the term , dj is the document , u the owner of the document , Svu is the similarity value between user v and u in a social network , and f is any possible function . 2.2 Multi Level Actor Similarity ( MAS ) Our MAS method aims to enhance the accuracy of actor similarity measurement by considering the global structure information of a social network , and also reduce the complexity of similarity computation by hierarchical clustering . MAS is calculated with the structural features of a social network , ie how actors are connected with each other in a social network . This approach three steps . First , it clusters and aggregates a social network at multiple levels based on the network structure with a fast community detection algorithm proposed by Clauset , et al . [ 1 ] . Then it applies the LHN vertex similarity [ 4 ] to the clustered networks at each level by considering the weighted edges among actors . A simple way to apply the LHN vertex similarity to a weighted network is to inverse the weighted edge values of the network and then to apply includes
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1103 the LHN vertex similarity algorithm . Finally , global similarity values are calculated crossing all levels . The process of MAS can be illustrated in Figure 1 . Suppose we have a social network in Figure 1a , and this network can be clustered hierarchically , shown in Figure 1b and 1c . In Figure 1b , Nodes 1 , 2 , and 3 are grouped into one cluster—an abstract node C11 , Nodes 4 and 5 into C12 , and Nodes 6 and 7 into C13 . Thus , we have a backbone network consisting C11 , C12 , and C13 , and the edges among them .
Figure 1 . The Process of Multi level Actor Similarity ( MAS ) . The hierarchical structure is shown in Figure 1c . To calculate the similarity between Nodes 3 and 5 , which belong to C11 and C12 respectively , we first computed the similarity values between C11 and C12 ( SCC ) , between Nodes 3 and Cluster C11 ( S3C11 ) , as well as between Node 5 and Cluster C12 ( S5C12 ) with weighted LHN , and then combine three similarity values together and get the final similarity value S3C11 SCC S5C12 . Instead of computing the whole network in Figure 1a , we only consider the backbone network shown in Figure 1d . This approach offers a good scalability without scarifying the global structural information of the social network and can greatly reduce the computation complexity [ 2 ] . 3 . EXPERIMENTS We implemented the SNDocRank framework in a mobile video social network application [ 3 ] , and conducted experiments to evaluate this framework and the MAS method with YouTube datasets . The datasets include two fully connected social networks from YouTube—a larger social network that consists of 16,576 different registered users and their 39,281 videos ; and a smaller network that has 2,264 users and 7,309 videos . We first selected a set of users from two networks who we assumed need to search for videos in YouTube . Our assumption was that a returned result is good for a searcher only when the result is both relevant and interesting . The interest of a searcher is defined by the dominant category to which the videos that the searcher has uploaded belong . We chose three categories of interest – music , sports , and animation – and six different users with three levels of degree – high , medium , and low – in each category . We chose 15 queries related to each category . To examine the effectiveness of the proposed ranking algorithm , we compared following three algorithms : a baseline condition with tf idf [ 6 ] ; the SNDocRank method with a cosine actor in tf idf ranking algorithm similarity algorithm in social networks ; and the SNDocRank with our MAS method . We used a popular metrics , Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) [ 6 ] , to evaluate the ranking algorithms . 4 . RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The results of our evaluation studies indicate that overall , the SNDocRank framework can return better search results than the traditional terms of document relevancy , the matching of interests with searchers , and the ranking effectiveness of returned results . Our MAS method outperforms the cosine similarity algorithm consistently across two social networks with different sizes , searchers with different degrees , and the interest groups with different sizes in a social network . This may imply that the structure of a searcher ’s social network can provide clues about the user ’s information needs and then can be used to improve ranking performances algorithms . SNDocRank methods ( both MAS and cosine ) vary with the size of a searcher ’s social network , a searcher ’s degree , and the size of a searcher community in a social network . Although the SNDocRank method considers the global information of a social network , it becomes effective only as the size of a network reaches a certain magnitude . The degree of a searcher in a social network can affect the SNDocRank framework . Generally speaking , both MAS and cosine methods benefit high degree searchers more than they do low degree searchers . The size of local communities in a social network also affects the SNDocRank results . Both MAS and cosine algorithms favor larger interest groups . Our results suggest some indicators that users can pursue to improve searching results . First , a user should join large social networks , because the SNDocRank method benefits large social networks more than small networks . Second , a user should try to be connected as many people as possible to increase the degree , which leads to better search results . Finally , in a social network , a user should be connected large communities or interest groups . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Part of this work has been funded by Alcatel Lucent . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Clauset , A . , M . E . J . Newman , & C . Moore . Finding the performance of community structure in very large networks . Phys . Rev . E , 70(6 ) , 66111 , 2004 .
[ 2 ] Gou , L . , H . Chen , J . Kim , X . Zhang & C . L . Giles .
SNDocRank : a Social Network Based Video Search Ranking Framework . Proc . of ACM MIR’10 , 2010
[ 3 ] Gou , L . , J . Kim , H . Chen , J . Collins , M . Goodman , X . Zhang
& C . L . Giles . MobiSNA : a Mobile Video Social Network Application . Proc . of MobiDE’09 , 53 56 , 2009
[ 4 ] Leicht , E . A . , P . Holme & Newman , M . E . J . Vertex similarity in networks . APS , 73 , 26120 , 2006 .
[ 5 ] Micarelli , A . , F . Gasparetti , F . Sciarrone , & S . Gauch
Personalized search on the World Wide Web . In Lecture Notes in Computer Science , 4321 : 195 230 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] Salton , G . & C . Buckley . Term weighting approaches in automatic text retrieval . Inf . Process . Manage . 24(5 ) , 513 523 , 1988 .
[ 7 ] Jarvelin , K . & J . Kekalainen . IR evaluation methods for retrieving highly relevant documents . In Proc . of SIGIR '00 , 41 48 , 2000 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1104
