Research Trails : Getting Back Where You Left Off
Jiahui Liu , Peter Jin Hong , Elin Rønby Pedersen
Google , Inc .
Mountain View , CA 94043 USA
{jiahui , peterjinhong , elinp}@google.com
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a prototype system that helps users in early stage web research to create and reestablish context across fragmented work process , without requiring them to explicitly collect and organize the material they visit . The system clusters a user's web history and shows it as research trails . We present two user interaction models with the research trails . The first interaction model is implemented as a standalone application , which presents a hierarchical view of research trails . The second interaction model is integrated with the web browser . It shows the user ’s research trails as selectable and manipulable visual streams when they open a new tab . Thereby , the NewTab page serves as a springboard in the browser for a user resuming an ongoing task . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H52 User Interfaces , Interaction Style and Evaluation . General Terms : Experimentation , Human Factors . Keywords : Early stage research , research trail , browser . 1 . INTRODUCTION A recent ethnographic study [ 3 ] identified the behavior of earlystage research of normal web users . Different from one off information gathering activities , which are now supported by many web tools , the early stage research involves multiple related topics and expands through multiple time sessions . In this paper , we present a prototype of a browsing tool that supports this kind of user activities . The user study identified a few important attributes of early stage research . Users usually start with vague and open questions . The research topic may change radically , though gradually as they learn . For example , a user was looking for jobs . While reviewing open job postings she found that she was not immediately qualified for jobs that interested her most . Thus she started noting qualifications that she was missing and searching for classes that she could take , while she continued looking for jobs and submitting applications . The whole process took about a month and spread over short daily work sessions . In the work process , the user spent little effort collecting or organizing the materials . As reported in the user study , a key challenge for early researchers is to maintain and reestablish the context of their work . Because the target is in flux in early research , people are unlikely to know what information to collect and organize . When they try to resume the research task , they are often at a loss , asking “ what was it I looked at yesterday just before the meeting ? ” The study suggested that people would generally benefit from tools that allow them to browse through previous research sessions . These tools can
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 20?4 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . provide a context for their work and enable users to easily pick up from where they last left off . In this paper , we present a prototype system that organizes user's web history into research trails [ 4 ] . A research trail is a series of work sessions represented as web pages the user visited in the past that belong to the same research task . The system automatically collects the user's web history and clusters them into research trails . It helps early researchers to create and reestablish context across fragmented work process , without requiring them to explicitly collect and organize their web history . A user can at any time look at recent research trails , unpack the relevant one and resume the task . 2 . BUILDING RESEARCH TRAILS The system applies two different perspectives on a user's web history . An activity based perspective focuses on how a user interacts with the web page , ie when the page is visited and what other pages are visited together . A semantic perspective focuses on the content of the web page , ie the topics it might cover . First , the system organizes the web pages into segments according to the activity based perspective . Each segment is a series of web pages visited by the user in a continuous work session . When more than M ( eg M=5 ) minutes transpire between two web page visits , a segment boundary is produced . Second , the segments are clustered to form research trails according to semantics of the pages in each segment . A research trail consists of a series of segments two perspectives complement each other in clustering and presentation . A segment is an intuitive representation of a work session , which helps users to find pages that are visited together . Clustering at the trail level helps users browse through fragmented work sessions related to the same research task . The system is built upon Google Web History . In the back end , the system builds an LDA model [ 1 ] for each user , thereby identifying the topics that the user is interested in . Using the model , the system generates topic vectors for the web pages and the segments in the user's web history . Then the segments are clustered using the algorithm described in [ 4 ] . It is worth noting two important features of the clustering algorithm . First , the algorithm was designed for the provision of topic sliding , requiring only strong local semantic similarity between consecutive segments . Therefore , the research topic can change slightly overtime in a research trail . Second , the algorithm splits a segment into multiple virtual sub segments when the topical similarity within the segment is low , and uses only the relevant virtual sub segments in building a research trail . Therefore , a segment with multi tasking can belong to multiple research trails . 3 . HIERARCHICAL RESEARCH TRAILS At first we developed a proof of concept prototype , aimed to assess whether people would find the clustering into trails useful . Figure 1 shows a screenshot of this prototype system . Users topically related . The that are
Figure 2 . Research trails in NewTab page
Figure 1 . Hierarchical view of research trails in reverse chronological order . Anchoring usually start with the upper left panel , which lists the most recent segments the representation in the “ now ” helps users quickly pick up from last unfinished tasks . Each segment is denoted by the topic keywords extracted from the web pages and the time period the pages are accessed . When users are interested in a particular segment , they simply click on the segment , which loads ( a list of ) web pages belonging to that segments in the lower panel , At the same time , the research trail in the right panel is a zoom out view of the segment , showing the overall research task with all the segments pertaining to the research trail . Clicking on a segment in the research trail loads its web pages in the lower right panel . Thus , the lower right panel serves as the zoom in view of the specific segments , allowing the user to dig into the segment and revisit the pages she worked on before . 4 . RESEARCH TRAILS IN BROWSER The interface shown in Figure 1 provides a hierarchical view of the research trail , which is mostly useful for assessing the quality of the clustering mechanism . To support users in early research , the research trails are better situated in the web browser , the everyday tool they use for conducting their work . Therefore , we propose an interaction design to be triggered whenever the user requests a new tab in the browser . The NewTab page may also be conveniently set as the start up page for the browser . The research trails in NewTab page set up the context for the user to efficiently return and resume an ongoing research task , possibly left off the previous day or just a short while ago when a competing demand temporarily interrupted the user . Figure 2 shows the layout of the NewTab page , which lists recent research trails of the user . We adopt the GLIDE streams [ 2 ] to represent each research trail . A GLIDE stream shows the thumbnails of the pages contained in a research trail , making it easy and efficient to get a sense of the materials in the trail . The research trails are initially shown with their most recent ( right most ) pages in frontal view and the rest of the trail going off to the left . To the right of the GLIDE stream is meta information about the research trail , such as the start time , the accumulated duration , essential key words to describe the contents , the number of pages and segments , etc . User can move the research trail to the left to view older page visits . To inspect a particular page , the user can turn over the thumbnail , as shown in Figure 3 , while clicking on it
Figure 3 . Inspect a research trail opens the page in another tab . Multiple thumbnails can be turned over , while the user scan through the stream of web pages , serving as a pin point for potentially interesting pages . The interaction model in Figure 2 and 3 creates a usable and enjoyable experience for users to browse their web history . It builds an environment that manages user's attention to focus on what matters and minimize distraction , with regard to their tasks of pattern recognition , recall , browsing and comparisons . The pages and segments are presented in a single stream , creating a smooth interaction flow . The thumbnails of web pages help users quickly recognize previously visited pages . In addition , showing multiple pages in the same stream allows users to compare the pages side by side . 5 . CONCLUSION We presented a prototype system that organizes user ’s web history into research trails and two interfaces to support early stage research of everyday web users . Future work includes extending the clustering mechanism to make it scalable , experimenting with server and client based data capture , and assessing the user interaction design in real context . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Blei , D . M . , Ng , A . Y . , and Jordan , M . I . ( 2003 ) . Latent Dirichlet allocation . In Journal of Machine Learning Research 3 .
[ 2 ] Hong , P , and Pedersen , ER ( 2009 ) . GLIDE Tab contest
Navigation , Entry ( http://design challengemozillalabscom/summer09/ ) in the Mozilla design
[ 3 ] Pedersen , ER ( 2010 ) . Territorial marking – and other reasons why a web notebook might not be the killer app . Technical Report . Google Research , 2010 .
[ 4 ] Pedersen , ER , Gyllstrom , K . , Gu , S . , and Hong , PJ ( 2010 ) . Automatic Generation of Research Trails in Web History . In Proc . IUI 2010 .
