Structural Analysis of the Emerging Event web
Vivek K . Singh
University of California , Irvine singhv@uci.edu
ABSTRACT Events are the fundamental abstractions to study the dynamic world . We believe that the next generation of web ( ie event web ) , will focus on interconnections between events as they occur across space and time [ 3 ] . In fact we argue that the real value of large volumes of microblog data being created daily lies in its inherent spatiotemporality , and its correlation with the real world events . In this context , we studied the structural properties of a corpus of 5,835,237 Twitter microblogs , and found it to exhibit Power laws across space and time , much like those exhibited by events in multiple domains . The properties studied over microblogs on different topics can be applied to study relationships between related events , as well as data organization location aware applications . Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Experimentation , Human factors , Design Keywords Event web , Microblogs , Power Law , Zipfs law , Pareto law 1 . INTRODUCTION for event based , real time , and
The current Web is largely document centric hypertext . Unlike events , hypertext has no notion of time , space , or semantic structures other than often ad hoc hyperlinks [ 3 ] . Going forward , we anticipate multiple applications organizing data around events in terms of their interconnections , geo locations , and temporal bounds . The applications will range from real time event search , to automated trip planning , to spatio temporal situation assessment . We feel that microblogs like Twitter will have an important role to play in the realization of such an Event web . Twitter posts are inherently spatio temporal , and can be easily encoded with semantic structures like hash tags ( eg #iran elections ) to support data organization . Thus we anticipate the information organization to soon occur , not via ‘URLs’ but rather via ‘event tags’ and across ‘geo locations’ . Early signs of such trends are visible with Google and Microsoft providing Twitter based search results for real time events , and exponential growth of tools like Yelp and Foursquare .
In such a context , we undertook a structural analysis of the evolving micro blogosphere with a specific focus on ‘hash tags’ . We argue that people make a conscious decision to hash tag their post , because they want to relate it to an event which is relevant to others in the same spatio temporal volume . For example #iranelection was related to the real world Iran elections event , and #iphone tag in the data set , was related to the iphone 3G release event even though the name #iphone may not directly look like an event tag . In fact a recent study which monitored ‘earthquake’ related posts [ 5 ] has modeled Twitter as a distributed event sensor , and [ 6 ] has reported the direct impact of real world events on the popularity of topics in blogosphere . Hence , we consider each topic ( ie hash tag ) in Twitter to signify a real world event .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 20–24 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
Ramesh Jain
University of California , Irvine jain@icsuciedu
Power law and structural properties of web were first studied in 1999 by works like [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] . Recent studies have reported similar power law properties ( eg in terms of number of posts per user [ 6 ] , or interconnections between users [ 7 ] ) in the micro blogosphere . However , the impact of recent occurrences like Haiti earthquake , Michael Jackson's death , Iran elections etc . on the web , has underscored the importance of events , and their real world location and time , for data organization in practical applications . This motivates our study into the spatio temporal structure exhibited by event related data in micro blogosphere .
We report our findings on 5,835,237 Twitter microblogs collected from across the globe for one month . We found specific patterns in event tag occurrences across the globe . In fact , while the author of each micro blog has complete freedom in choosing which ( and how many ) event tags to use for it , we found that the overall system obeys scaling and structural laws characteristic only of highly interactive self organized systems and critical phenomena [ 2 ] . Organization of tweets based on event tags exhibited patterns in terms of Power laws ( Pareto ’s law , Zipf ’s law , and RichterGutenberg law ) . Significantly , we found the patterns to be surprisingly robust and not varying significantly from region to region or over time durations considered . Hence , these findings can indeed be used by application designers ( eg using Pareto law , to focus only on top 20 % events for real time indexing ) in spatiotemporal event based applications .
2 . METHODS AND FINDINGS
The findings presented here are based on 5.8 million tweets downloaded between Aug 22 , 2009 and Sep 21 , 2009 using Twitter ’s public ‘spritzer’ stream . The geo location used is based on the ‘home’ location of the user , as converted by the Geonames server locations successfully geocoded , were used for location based experiments .
( wwwgeonamesorg ) Only tweets with
We define magnitude of each event as the frequency of occurrence of that event tag in the corpus . In the data set studied we found a total of 2,310,104 ( 2.3 million ) event tag occurrences , corresponding to 292,981 unique event tags . 2.1 Pareto's law The Pareto ’s law states that , for many domains , roughly 80 % of the effects come from 20 % of the causes . We found that most popular 20 % of event tags corresponded to more than 80 % of all tag occurrences . In fact as shown in Table 1 , we noticed that such a Pareto law distribution holds even for the spatial and temporal subsets of the corpus , with the subsets becoming increasingly topheavy as the size of the corpus increased .
Table 1 : Distribution of event tags
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1183 Fig 1 : Variation of frequency of event tags and their ranks for different ( a ) time durations . ( b ) geo regions . ( c ) Co occurrence pattern across event tags . would be a ‘web’ of interconnected events across time and space [ 3 ] . Thus , the interlinking across event tags would be an important indication of relative importance of events . Hence , we proceeded to study the co occurrence patterns of event tags in the microblog data . For example a tweet like “ Show trials resume , Montazeri speaks out The Majlis http://shar.es/1bAel #iranelection #neda ” , shows a possible connection between event tags #iranelection and #neda . We found that such co occurrence patterns also followed the Power law over several orders of magnitude . While event tags like #jobs and #tcot , were linked to thousands of other tags , there were thousands others which had no co occurrences . Hence , just like Page rank , such event link structures can be used to assign importance to events in future . 3 . APPLICATIONS AND FUTURE WORK Just like the findings about the structure of traditional web [ 1,2 ] were used to design better caching mechanisms ( eg caching only top 20 % of websites ) , our findings will allow the event web architects to make similar decisions eg focusing only on top 20 % of events for real time indexing , or customized advertisement creation , or real time marketing outreach . Further still , the spatiotemporal properties of the distributions studied , might be critical for resource planning in evolving location based services . The finding that microblog data exhibits is significantly different from the traditional ‘Poisson distribution’ assumption , can be used for better/ correct modeling of web traffic growth in near future . The Zeta distribution pattern can also be used to extrapolate and calculate the impact of various events or campaigns across Geo locations , by just using their relative ranking with other well studied events . While the focus of studied Power laws and our current finding has been on occurrence and co occurrence patterns ; in near future , we also intend to study causality across such events . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Adamic and B . Huberman . Growth dynamics of the World Wide Web . Nature , 401(6749):131 , 1999 . [ 2 ] R . Albert , H . Jeong , and A . Barabasi . Diameter of the worldwide web . Nature , 401(6749):130 131 , 1999 . [ 3 ] R . Jain . Eventweb : Developing a human centered computing system . IEEE Computer , 41(2 ) , 2008 . [ 4 ] A . Clauset , CR Shalizi , MEJ Newman , "Power law distributions in empirical data" SIAM Review 51(4 ) , 2008 . [ 5 ] Sakaki et al . , “ Earthquake Shakes Twitter Users : Real time Event Detection by Social Sensors ” . WWW conference 2010 . ( Accepted ) [ 6 ] Gruhl et al . , “ Information diffusion through blogspace ” , WWW conference , 2004 . [ 7 ] Java et al . , “ Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities ” . In WebKDD/SNA KDD , 2007 .
2.2 Zipf's law and Gutenberg Richter law Zipf's law , is the observation that in many domains the frequency of occurrence of some event P , as a function of the rank i when the rank is determined by the frequency of occurrence , is a power law function Pi ≈ 1/i a . This pattern has been found for the corpus of English words ( most frequent word occurs approximately twice as often as the 2nd most frequent word ) , population ranks of cities in various countries , income rankings etc . Zipf's law ( or more generally the Zeta distribution [ 4 ] ) is most easily observed by plotting the data on a log log graph , with the axes being log(rank order ) and log(frequency ) . A dataset that conforms to Zipf's law will lead to a linear plot . For micro blogosphere , we wanted to verify if there is a fixed relative ratio for the occurrence of events of different magnitude . Further still we wanted to see if this ratio remains constant , if we vary the space or the time duration being considered ? In effect , we also wanted to verify another Power law , known as the Gutenberg–Richter law which ( in seismology ) expresses the relationship between the magnitude and total number of earthquakes in any given region and time ie log N = a b M where : N is the number of events in a given magnitude range , M is a magnitude minimum , a and b are constants . While Gutenberg–Richter law can be interpreted as a variation of the Zipf ’s Law [ 4 ] , the interesting aspect is that the relationship is robust , and does not vary significantly from region to region or over time . In our data set , we ranked different event tags based on their frequency of occurrence , and plotting the rank of the tags against the frequency of occurrence on a Log Log scale gave a linear plot . More interestingly ( See Fig 1(a) ) , when we took subsets of the data corpus for different time durations ( 30 mins , 1 day , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks , and 1 month ) , we observed separate but still linear ( and with very similar slope ) , plots for each one of them . Further still ( see Fig 1(b ) ) when we took subsets of data based on location ( whole world , just United States , and just a 10 latitude by 10 longitude block around New York city ) , each collection independently exhibited the Zipf's law . Hence we found that Zipf's law ( and Gutenberg Richter law ) holds for each reasonably sized spatial and temporal collection of event data . This finding may be useful for localized indexing and data assimilation , which will be a vital thrust of the evolving event web . 2.3 Linking across events What made WWW a ‘web’ , was the interlinking across different websites . The in links and out links from websites , and their structure ( eg 80 % links point to 20 % websites [ 1 ] ) were used in Page rank and many related technologies to decide on relative importance of the websites . We believe that evolving dynamic web
‘Zeta distribution’ , which
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1184
