How Accurately Can One ’s Interests Be Inferred From
Friends ?
Zhen Wen
IBM TJ Watson Research Center
19 Skyline Drive
Hawthorne , NY 10532 USA zhenwen@usibmcom
Ching Yung Lin
IBM TJ Watson Research Center
19 Skyline Drive
Hawthorne , NY 10532 USA chingyung@usibmcom
ABSTRACT Search and recommendation systems must effectively model user interests in order to provide personalized results . The proliferation of social software makes social network an increasingly important source for user interest modeling , because of the social influence and correlation among friends . However , there are large variations in people ’s contribution of social content . Therefore , it is impractical to accurately model interests for all users . As a result , applications need to decide whether to utilize a user interest model based on its accuracy . To address this challenge , we present a study on the accuracy of user interests inferred from three types of social content : social bookmarking , file sharing , and electronic communication , in an organizational social network within a large scale enterprise . First , we demonstrate that combining different types of social content to infer user interests outperforms methods that use only one type of social content . Second , we present a technique to predict the inference accuracy based on easily observed network characteristics , including user activeness , network in degree , out degree , and betweenness centrality .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences
General Terms : Measurement , Experimentation
Keywords : User modeling , Social networks , Accuracy
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Modeling user interests to meet individual user needs is important for personalized search and recommender systems . Recently , the proliferation of online social networks spark an interests of leveraging social network to infer user interests , based on the existence of social influence and correlation among neighbors in social networks . For many applications , it is difficult to observe sufficient behavior of a large number of users . In such scenarios , inferring their interests from their friends can be the only viable solution . For example , for a new user in a social application , the application may only have information about his friends who are already using it . To motivate the new user to actively participate , the application may want to provide personalized recommendations of relevant content . To this end , the application has to infer his interests from friends .
However , there exists huge variation in the types and
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . amount of information in social network . According to existing studies [ 1 ] on enterprise social networks , a small percentage of employees ( eg , < 10 % ) may actively contribute social content using one or more social software ( eg , blogs and social bookmarking ) . But a large number of employees may seldom do so . That results in both a demand and a challenge for accurate user interest modeling , especially for inactive users that do not contribute social content . On one hand , search and recommendation systems need accurate user interest modeling to provide personalized results , and thus may help to increase the usage of social software . However , the available observations of users are sparse and exist in multiple types of social media . To address such a challenge , we first need to combine multiple types of social media to improve user interest modeling . Second , in order not to diminish the quality of personalized search and recommendation results by inaccurately inferred user interests , a computational method is demanded to measure inference accuracy based on observable features such as the user ’s social network characteristics .
This paper presents a study addressing this challenge . We focus on the accuracy of user interests inferred from neighbors in a large scale organizational social network . In addition , we examine a set of social network factors to predict the inference accuracy based on network characteristics that can be easily observed . Our work is based on a privacypreserving organizational social network analysis system [ 3 ] that gathers , crawls and mines various types of data sources within an organization , including people ’s communication data such as email , instant message communications , and Web 2.0 social media such as blogs , wiki , social bookmarking and file sharing . The system is deployed within a large scale corporation in more than 70 countries for over 3 years . After anonymizing the identity and the content of these data , we are able to quantitatively infer the social networks of 400K employees within the organization . In this organization , nearly 9K volunteers contributed their electronic communication records , 16K people used social bookmarking , 14K people shared files , and 5K employees blogged . 2 .
INFER USER INTERESTS
Because users’ contributed content reveal their interests , we model user interests as a set of latent topics extracted from their communication data and contributed social content . We use LDA to extract latent topics and define a U×T matrix S to describe user interests using topics , where U is the total number of employees and T is the total number of topics ( T = 1200 ) . An element sij in S denotes the degree the i th employee is interested in the j th extracted topic .
Condition Max Mean Min 59.4 % 19.2 % 5.1 % 44.9 % 12.7 % 3.0 % 62.1 % 29.6 % 3.8 % 100 % 45.1 % 4.2 %
1 2 3 4
St . Deviation
10.7 % 7.2 % 14.1 % 21.7 %
Table 1 : Accuracy of user interests inference .
Next , we use network autocorrelation model [ 2 ] to infer U user interests from their neighbors in social networks . In our study , we estimate the degree the i th user is interested k=1 ( wki · skj ) , where the weight in the j th topic as sij = wki as an exponential function of the social distance between user k and user i . It is defined by considering the degree of separation between them and the amount of their communication [ 4 ] .
To measure the quality of the inferred interests , we define N [ cos(tj , t) ] , the inference accuracy as : C = 1 N where tj is the j th topic in the inferred top N interests , T N is the ground truth top N interests . Intuitively , the equation calculates how many inferred top N interests are similar to the top N ground truth . In our study , we set N = 10 and use the interests extracted from a user ’s contributed content as his ground truth interests .
N j=1 maxt∈T
Then , we perform 10 fold cross validation to compute the inference accuracy . In each round , we leave out the data of one tenth of the users ( testing set ) , and infer their interests using only the extracted interests for the other nine tenths of the users ( training set ) . To investigate the effectiveness of combining different types of social content , we conduct the experiment in four conditions : ( 1 ) using social bookmarking data only , ( 2 ) using file sharing data only , ( 3 ) using electronic communication data only , and ( 4 ) using all three types of data . Table 1 shows the inference accuracy in the four conditions . The comparison results demonstrate the significant advantage of combining multiple sources social information . We attribute the significant improvement to the much wider coverage of the combined social content . Table 1 also shows that , although the mean accuracy is reasonably good , the variance is huge . We hypothesize that the variance is due to the large variation in people ’s contributed content and their positions in the social network . 2.1 Predict Inference Accuracy
Because there is large variance in the accuracy of inferring user interests from social network , it is difficult for practical search and recommender applications to decide whether utilizing the inferred interests can improve results . Therefore , we examine a set of relevant network factors to predict the inference accuracy .
We hypothesize that a user ’s interests are impacted by the type and amount of content contributed in his ego network as well as the structural characteristics of the ego network . Specifically , we examine four factors including user activeness measured by the amount of contributed content , network in degree , network out degree and between centrality . We focus on studying the factors in the user ’s three degree ego network . For each factor , we extract corresponding feature for three sub ego networks including one degree neighbors , two degree neighbors , and three degree neighbors respectively . This allows us to assess the different influence from neighbors of different degrees of separation . In addition , the role of the user himself in the social network may influence interest inference . For example , a user that plays
Figure 1 : The precision recall curves for inference accuracy classification . an important role in the information flow within the network may be more likely to share interests with his neighbors . Therefore , we also extract ego network feature of the user himself including in degree , out degree and betweenness .
Then , we choose to use support vector regression ( SVR ) determine the relationship between the set of features and the prediction accuracy . To evaluate the quality of the inferred top N interests , we use the prediction to classify “ accurate ” inferred interests ( eg , accuracy C > 50% ) . To classify “ accurate ” interest inference , we test whether the accuracy prediction is larger than a threshold T H . A precisionrecall curve can be derived by varying the threshold T H . We use 10 fold cross validation to evaluate the classification performance based on support vector regressions . Five criteria are used to classify the inference accuracy . The resulting precision recall curves are shown in Figure 1 . Additional experiments also show that one and two degree neighbors are most useful in predicting a user ’s interests . Moreover , user activeness is the most important factors among the four factors studied . 3 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we present a study on the accuracy of inferring user interests from friends in one of the largest organizational social networks . We demonstrate that there exist large variance of the inference accuracy when user contributed content considerably vary and the content types are diverse . To allow search and recommendation applications make informed decisions on when to utilize inferred user interests , we further investigate relevant factors and present a method to predict inference accuracy based on easily observed network features including user activeness , network in degree , out degree and betweenness centrality . Our findings can be useful for social applications with widely varied participation rate so that the interests of many people can only be inferred from their friends .
4 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] M . Brzozowski , T . Sandholm , and T . Hogg . Effects of feedback and peer pressure on contributions to enterprise social media . In CSCW , pages 61–70 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] R . T . Leenders . Modeling social influence through network autocorrelation : constructing the weight matrix . Social Networks , 24:21–47 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] C . Lin , K . Ehrlich , V . Griffiths Fisher , and C . Desforges .
Smallblue : People mining for expertise search , . IEEE Multimedia Magazine , 15(1):78–84 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] L . Wu , C . Lin , S . Aral , and E . Brynjolfsson . Value of social network – a large scale analysis on network structure impact to financial revenue of information technology consultants . In The Winter Conference on Business Intelligence , 2009 .
002040608100102030405060708091RecallPrecisionaccuracy>10%accuracy>20%accuracy>30%accuracy>40%accuracy>50 %
