Review Recommendation with Graphical Model and EM
Algorithm
School of Information Technology and
School of Information Technology and
Thomas Tran
Engineering
University of Ottawa
800 King Edward Avenue ttran@siteuottawaca
Ottawa , ON , Canada
Richong Zhang
Engineering
University of Ottawa
800 King Edward Avenue
Ottawa , ON , Canada rzhan025@siteuottawaca
ABSTRACT Automatically assessing the quality and helpfulness of consumer reviews is more and more desirable with the evolutionary development of online review systems . Existing helpfulness assessment methodologies make use of the positive vote fraction as a benchmark and heuristically find a “ best guess ” to estimate the helpfulness of review documents . This benchmarking methodology ignores the voter population size and treats the the same positive vote fraction as the same helpfulness value . We propose a review recommendation approach that make use of the probability density of the review helpfulness as the benchmark and exploit graphical model and Expectation Maximization ( EM ) algorithm for the inference of review helpfulness . The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach is superior to existing approaches .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information Filtering ; H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Theory
Keywords Helpfulness , Recommendation , Online Review
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Due to the growth of internet business , more and more web sites are providing services by requesting users to leave reviews after finishing a transaction . “ Online product reviews provided by consumers who previously purchased products have become a major information source for consumers and marketers regarding product quality ” [ 2 ] . There are , however , a number of challenges for consumers to make their best use of online reviews . Reviewers write reviews and rate products by using a number of stars . Such a star scale rating , together with the fact that reviews are usually unstructured and often mix the reviewers’ feelings and opinions , make it difficult for consumers to get the real semantics of reviews .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
Search engines are good tools to assist in looking for information , but the result set of a query by search engine is huge . Also , an online community like Epinion.com usually receives more than 1000 reviews submitted by different users for a specific product . These justify why it is essentially important to develop systems that can recommend helpful reviews to consumers effectively . We notice that most of the review aggregation web sites provide helpfulness voting function for consumers to rate reviews . However , this progress takes time far before a really helpful review to be discovered , and the latest published review will always be the least voted one . Existing review helpfulness assessing approaches commonly take the positive vote fraction as the benchmark and apply some general machine learning tools to infer the helpfulness of the online review documents . We argue that using positive vote fraction as the benchmark is a significant limitation of these approaches because they treat the the same positive vote fraction as the same helpfulness no matter how many voters voted .
In this paper , we propose a novel probabilistic formulation to model the review helpfulness distribution and to recommend review documents with higher probability of being a helpful review to consumers . Under this probabilistic formulation , the helpfulness of a review document is given a precise mathematical meaning . We also develop a probabilistic graphical model and an Expectation Maximization algorithm for helpfulness inference . The experimental results obtained by this model show that our approach gives stat of the art effectiveness .
2 . PROPOSED PROBABILISTIC MODEL OF
REVIEW HELPFULNESS
Given a collection of voters’ opinion on a review document , we can use Bayes rule to infer the distribution of the helpfulness value . Formally , we use i to index the review documents set D , I to denote the index the set of all review documents . For each i ∈ I , let Γ(i ) index the set of all voters on the ith review document and let VΓ(i ) denote the collection of all votes on the ith document . We also define VΓ(i ) = {V j Γ(i ) : j ∈ Γ(i)} . Denote by Γ := ∪i∈I Γ(i ) the set of all voters that have voted on at least one document in DI . The helpfulness value αi of a review document Di then can be defined as the probability of a random chosen voter j , where j ∈ Γ(i ) , voting positively on the review document Di . Equivalently , the helpfulness of review Di can be characterized by the conditional probability distribution
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1219 Γ(i)|Di ) , where Di is a random review from DI and V j
P ( V j is a random voter ’s {0 , 1} valued opinion from VΓ(i ) .
Γi
Figure 1 gives the graphical representation of the review helpfulness model . Fi denotes the feature of a review document Di . αi denotes the helpfulness of Di . V j Γ(i ) denotes a vote submitted by the readers to Di . A review document is a collection of N features denoted by Fi = {f1 , f2 , . . . , fN} , where fn is the nth feature in the collection . From the graphical model specified in Figure 1 , it can be easily find that :
P ( αi , VΓ(i)|Fi ) = P ( VΓ(i)|αi)P ( αi|Fi ) and i∈I
P ( VΓ(i)|Fi ) =
P ( VΓ(i)|αi)P ( αi|Fi)dαi .
Gaussian distribution : P ( αi|Fi ) ∼ N(cid:161 )
We assume that the distribution of review helpfulness is a . Collectively , we denote θ = {A , σ2} . Consider the conditional joint distribution of votes VΓ(i ) and helpfulness αI , we have :
αi ; FiAT , σ2(cid:162 )
αi
P ( VΓ , αI|FI , θ ) =
P ( αi|Fi , θ)P ( VΓ(i)|αi ) i∈I
Maximizing P ( VΓ|FI , θ ) then leads to the following opti mization problem :
ˆθ = argmax
θ log
αi
P ( αi|Fi , θ )
P ( V j
Γ(i)|αi)dαi i∈I j∈Γ(i )
In this paper , we apply EM algorithm to estimate the ˆθ which maximize P ( VΓ|FI , θ ) . In order to find the ˆθ to maximize the log likelihood of P ( VΓ|FI , θ ) , we define q(αI ) as an arbitrary distribution over the hidden variable αI where E step : qt+1(αI ) =
P ( αi|Fi , VΓ(i ) , θt ) and M step :
θt+1 = argmax
θ
αI qt+1(αI ) log P ( VΓ , αI|θ , FI )dαI .
The algorithm alternates between E step and M step . The local optimality can be guaranteed by the convergence property of EM algorithm in [ 1 ] . Upon the convergence , we obtain the value of parameter θ . The next issue is how to use
Figure 1 : Detailed Graphical Model Representation this model to predict the helpfulness value of online reviews . Based on Bayesian formula , we can rewrite this problem as , let Vi denote a random vote on Di , then
P ( Vi = 1|Fi ) =
P ( Vi = 1 , αi|Fi)dαi
αi
3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Table 1 : Ranking Correlation of our probabilistic model , SVM Regression , ANN and Linear Regression ( 10 fold cross validation ) .
Probabilistic Model SVM Regression ANN Linear Regression
Ranking Correlation 0.56778 0.53874 0.53484 0.51369
Our experiments focus on the product category of LCD HDTV . We crawled 501 LCD HDTV reviews from Amazon.com which have been evaluated by at least 10 consumers as helpful or not helpful . To validate the ranking performance of our model , we compare our probabilistic model with Support Vector Regression ( SVR ) , Artificial Neural Network ( ANN ) , and Linear Regression . We choose σ = 0.2 in our empirical study to estimate the helpfulness distribution . This can assure that most of the Gaussian distribution stays between ( 0,1 ) . Table 1 shows the experimental results of our probabilistic model and SVR algorithm and Linear Regression algorithm . The results indicate that our model consistently outperforms SVR , ANN and Linear Regression in terms of Spearman ’s ranking correlation coefficient .
4 . CONCLUSION
We have investigated the disadvantages of the conventional helpfulness definition and proposed a probabilistic approach to analyze the helpfulness distribution of online product review . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first model which is built to assess the helpfulness distribution of product reviews and does not rely on the simple positive vote fraction . We have shown that probabilistic model is a more generative model for the review documents helpfulness assessment than conventional models . Finally , we have executed an empirical study on the reviews of Amazoncom The experimental results show that our model can effectively predict the review ’s helpfulness . By applying this model , helpful online reviews can be recommended to the possible consumers to assist them with their purchase decision making .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . P . Dempster , N . M . Laird , and D . B . Rubin .
Maximum likelihood from incomplete data via the em algorithm . Journal of the Royal Statistical Society . Series B ( Methodological ) , 39(1):1–38 , 1977 .
[ 2 ] N . Hu , L . Liu and J . J . Zhang . Do online reviews affect product sales ? the role of reviewer characteristics and temporal effects . Information Technology and Management , 9(3):201–214 , 2008 .
Ii∈iFiα()jiVΓ)(ijΓ∈θWWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1220
