Finding Influentials Based on the Temporal Order of
Information Adoption in Twitter∗
Changhyun Lee , Haewoon Kwak , Hosung Park , and Sue Moon
Department of Computer Science , KAIST , Korea
{chlee , haewoon , hosung}@ankaistackr , sbmoon@kaist.edu
ABSTRACT Twitter offers an explicit mechanism to facilitate information diffusion and has emerged as a new medium for communication . Many approaches to find influentials have been proposed , but they do not consider the temporal order of information adoption . In this work , we propose a novel method to find influentials by considering both the link structure and the temporal order of information adoption in Twitter . Our method finds distinct influentials who are not discovered by other methods . Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences General Terms : Algorithms , Measurement Keywords : Social Networks , Twitter , Information Diffusion , Influentials , Ranking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Twitter is a microblogging service that has emerged as a new medium for communication recently . Different from most online social networking sites , the relationship of following between users can be unidirectional ; a user does not have to follow those who follow him . In Twitter , a user receives all the messages from those he follows , and this unique mechanism of following and subscription of tweets make Twitter a medium of information diffusion .
Many approaches to find influentials have been proposed so far . The simplest approach is to count the number of followers . Another technique is to mine the link structure , such as PageRank . In our previous work [ 1 ] , we apply the PageRank algorithm and its extensions to Twitter . However , these approaches do not consider the temporal order of information adoption , whereas web pages link only to already existing web pages in world wide web , and they , thus , inherently weigh old information rather more than new information . The order of information adoption is critical to assess the influence . In the theory of diffusion of innovation [ 2 ] , Rogers divides individuals into five categories by the temporal order of information adoption , and the fast two categories are very social and have the highest degree of opinion leadership .
In this work , we propose a novel method to find influentials by considering both the link structure and the order of information adoption in Twitter . We find influentials by existing approaches including PageRank and demonstrate significant discrepancy among ∗This work was supported by the IT R&D program of MKE/KEIT [ 2008 F 016 02 , “ CASFI : High Precision Measurement and Analysis Research ” ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . them . To develop a ranking method that reflects Twitter ’s explicit mechanism to facilitate information diffusion , we first analyze the information diffusion patterns in Twitter . We discover that information diffusion mostly happens in the early period . Users with many followers are not always the best information spreader when the order of information adoption is taken into account . Therefore , to assess the influence of a user , we propose a measure called effective readers who are newly exposed to information . Based on this measure , we develop a simple method to find influentials in Twitter . Our method , unlike others , takes into consideration the temporal order of information adoption .
2 .
INFORMATION DIFFUSION PATTERNS IN TWITTER
What is a proper way to rank influentials in Twitter ? How should we define influentials in Twitter ? To answer these questions we conduct a detailed study of information diffusion patterns .
For our experiments , we have crawled profiles of all users on Twitter from June 3rd to September 25th , 2009 . Among 41 million users we collected profiles of , there exist 1.47 billion directed relations of following and being followed . We then record the top 10 trending topics every 5 minutes and collect tweets mentioning trending topics . In total we have collected 4 , 262 unique trending topics and their 223 million tweets for four months .
To analyze how information diffuses over time in Twitter , we first identify the tweets that belong to the same thread of discussion within a trending topic . Kwak et al . show that a trending topic becomes active and inactive repeatedly [ 1 ] . In this work we rely on the temporal proximity to cluster tweets of the same context and leave natural language processing of tweets for semantic verification for future work .
Within each thread of trending topics above , we calculate the cumulative number of users who have received a tweet regarding each topic and see how this number changes over time . A user may or may not read all the tweets one receives , and we label these users potential readers . We plot the information spreading over time in terms of the cumulative number of potential readers . A few selected topics are shown in Figure 1 .
The cumulative number of potential readers increases fast in the early stage , and its growth slows down over time . This behavior indicates that information diffusion mostly happens in the early period in Twitter and early tweets spread better . We then plot the growth of the cumulative number of writers over time as a red dotted line in Figure 1 . Comparing the growth of potential readers with that of writers , we find that the growth rate of potential readers slows down even when the number of writers increases steadily as most clearly shown in ‘harry potter’ . Influence of writers is timedependent , and late writers have less influence than early ones .
( a ) apple
( b ) obama
( c ) harry potter
( d ) #iranelection
Figure 1 : The growth of potential readers ( above black solid line ) and writers ( below red dotted line ) over time . The tics of left y axis is the number of potential readers , and that of right y axis is the number of writers .
Figure 2 : Top 10 users ranked by effective readers , the number of followers , PageRank , the number of retweeted tweets
Not all followers of a user hear about a certain topic from the user ; they could hear it first from others they follow . We define the effective reader of a writer as the user who has been exposed to the thread for the first time through the writer ’s tweet . To compare the number of followers and the number of effective readers of each user , for 80 % of users only 20 % of their followers turn out to be effective readers . That is , having many followers does not always make a user influential in information diffusion . Our findings underline the importance of the temporal order in information adoption .
3 . FINDING INFLUENTIALS WITH
EFFECTIVE READERS
In the previous section we have shown that effective readers can be far fewer than potential readers . The concept of effective readers reflects the importance of timeliness of information adoption as argued in previous literature [ 2 ] . Therefore we find influentials based on the number of effective readers of a user .
In our method , a user can be in either of two states : the user has already read a tweet of a trending topic ( state 1 ) or not read yet ( state 0 ) . We assume that a user reads all tweets of followings in chronological order .
• Initialization : All users begin in state 0 .
∀u ∈ U , S(u ) = 0
( 1 ) where U is the set of all users and S(u ) is the state of user u .
• Information diffusion : A user changes to state 1 if followings write a tweet of a trending topic . Once a state of a user changes to state 1 , that of the user never returns to state 0 . Effective readers , ER , of tweet w written by user u are defined as :
ER0(w ) = {v|v ∈ f ollower(u ) and S(v ) = 0}
( 2 ) where f ollower(u ) is the set of user u ’s followers . The influence of a user u is defined as the total count of the effective readers for all tweets of user u . w∈T(u )
IF0(u ) =
ER0(w )
( 3 ) where T(u ) is all tweets written by user u .
We present the top 10 influentials by our method and others in Figure 2 ( Retweeted tweets are tweets cited by other users ) . Different from other methods , most of the influential users in our model are news media . We claim that news media has significant influence in spreading information to effective readers . Quantitative comparison of our model with ranking by the number of followers shows there is only 34 % of overlaps for the top 1 , 000 influentials . The overlaps with other algorithms such as PageRank are even lower , showing the uniqueness of our method .
4 . FUTURE WORK
While our model finds distinct influentials who are not discovered by other methods , a few more considerations can improve the model to reflect human nature in the real world . First , a user may not read all the tweets of his followings . The more followings a user has , the less likely one pays attention to all followings . Second , not all users read or remember the same even under the same condition . People forget information as time passes . In the future , we plan to extend our method with the above considerations .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . Kwak , C . Lee , H . Park , and S . Moon . What is Twitter , a
Social Network or a News Media ? In WWW ’10 : Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World Wide Web , 2010 .
[ 2 ] E . M . Rogers . Diffusion of Innovations , 5th Edition . Free
Press , 5 edition , August 2003 .
