Detecting Epidemic Tendency by Mining Search Logs1
Weize Kong
School of Software Beihang University
Beijing , China , 100086
Yiqun Liu , Shaoping Ma , Liyun Ru
State Key Laboratory of Intelligent Technology and Systems
Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology
DCST , Tsinghua University , Beijing , China , 100084 kongweize@gmail.com yiqunliu@tsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT We consider the problem of detecting epidemic tendency by mining search logs . We propose an algorithm based on clickthrough information to select epidemic related queries/terms . We adopt linear regression to model epidemic occurrences and frequencies of epidemic related terms ( ERTs ) in search logs . The results show our algorithm is effective in finding ERTs which obtain a high correlation value with epidemic occurrences . We also find the proposed method performs better when combining different ERTs than using single ERT .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 Information Search and Retrieval : Miscellaneous General Terms : Algorithms , Measurement , Experimentation Keywords : Epidemic detection , search log mining , query 1 . INTRODUCTION A large and increasing number of people are using Web search engine to seek information today . As a consequence , search log collects massive amount of data which records people ’s search behavior . This provides us an alternative way to discover patterns of group behaviors or topics of people ’s interests . An interesting application is Google Trends , with which people can see how often one topic have been searched on Google over time . In another wok , Ginsberg et al . [ 1 ] used Google search queries to track influenza like illness ( ILI ) . Their method of selecting ILIrelated query is based on testing each of 50 million most common search queries to see how their model performs when using the single query . We consider the same question that whether user search behavior is effective in detecting epidemic tendency . In particular , we examine the correlation between frequencies of ERTs and epidemic occurrences in a specific location . However , differently from [ 1 ] , we utilize click though information to find epidemic related queries ( ERQs ) . The results show the ERQs selected by our algorithm can effectively model epidemic occurrences .
2 . FINDING EPIDEMIC RELATED QUERIES Our method of selecting ERQs is based on click through information . We assume that queries which share a common clicked URL may be related to a same topic . Therefore , we can select more ERQs by finding other queries which share same clicked URLs with the original ERQ .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 20–24 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
To represent the query and URL relationship , we construct Clickthrough Graph , which was described as directed bipartite graph in [ 2 ] . We define Click through Graph as G = ( V , E ) ; the set of vertices V is composed of queries and Web pages which appear in search log . The set of edges E is composed of edges connecting a query and a Web page , with which the query leads to the selection of the Web 1 page . An example of a Click through Graph is showed in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : An example of Click through Graph .
In Figure 1 , query q0 and q2 are both connected to page p2 . It means that users click on p2 while searching query q0 and q2 . Here we assume that q0 and q2 may share a same topic because users click a same page p2 while questioning them . Particularly , if q0 or q2 is related to one specific epidemic , it is likely that the other query is also related to the epidemic . Based on Click through Graph , our iterative algorithm for finding ERQ is : 1 . ERQ set Q= {initial ERQs} , epidemic related page set P = Ø 2 . For any query q in Q , add new pages connected to q into P 3 . For any page p in P , add new queries connected to p into Q 4 . Go to step 2 until exit condition is satisfied . The resulting ERQs are in set Q . In our experiment , we pick the epidemic name as initial epidemic related query . The exit condition can be set as that the size of Q or the iterative times reach given thresholds . In our task , we end the iteration at the second round , when we harvest 771 unique ERQs .
3 . DATE SET To obtain epidemic occurrence data , we extract occurrence information for four kinds of epidemics in Beijing from the official website of Beijing Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention . The result is showed in Figure 2 . Some data is missing due to absence of reports from the official website . Since the epidemic occurrence data is relatively sufficient for varicella
1 Supported by Natural Science Foundation
( 60736044 , 60903107 ) and Research Fund for the Doctoral Program of Higher Education of China ( 20090002120005 )
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1133 and hand foot mouth disease ( HFMD ) from Feb . 2009 to May 2009 , we consider these two kinds of epidemics and analyze search query log from a widely used commercial Chinese search engine . Specifically , we used query log data from Feb . 23 , 2009 to May 31 , 2009 ( 98 days ) in Beijing . Only query and user clicks , no other information related to user privacy , were used in our work .
To combine different ERT frequency data , we conducted multiple linear regression [ 3 ] , using ERTs varicella , fever , herpes zoster , scab as independent variables . The result in Figure 4 shows that the fitted line of multiple linear regression fits varicella tendency more accurately than the fitted line in Figure 3 . The correlation value improves from 0.77 ( the highest correlation value when using single ERT counts ) to 091 This can be explained by that the ERTs describe different aspects of the epidemic . Varicella , herpes zoster and scab are different symptoms of varicella . It ’s likely that users might adpot different ERTs , considering their own situation , when searching information about the epidemic .
Figure 2 : Four kinds of epidemic occurrences in Beijing .
4 . EXPERIMENT AND RESULTS We performed our Click through Graph based algorithm described in section 2 , and harvested 771 unique ERQs consisted by 1301 unique terms . Terms with high frequencies in these ERQs are supposed to be highly related to the epidemic . So we picked these terms as ERTs ( We also filtered some terms are intuitively not related to epidemic , such as stop words ) . For example , in varicella related queries , the frequently occurring terms are varicella with 2831 occurrences , herpes zoster with 287 occurrences and infant with 230 occurrences . In our data set , we computed a time series of weekly frequencies for ERTs and epidemic occurrences . Both the frequencies for ERT and epidemic occurrences were normalized by dividing their maximum counts , respectively . By performing linear regression between frequencies of epidemic occurrence and single ERT , we found the selected ERTs showed a high correlation with epidemic occurrences . Tabel 1 gives us four varicella related terms with top correlation values for varicella occurrence counts . We can see a strong correlation between varicella related terms and varicella occurrences . The term varicella , the epidemic name , obtained the highest correlation value 077 The term which describes one symptom of vermicelli , fever , also has a close correlation value 073
Table 1 . Four varicella related terms with top correlation values for varicella occurrence counts Correlation Value
Term
Varicella
Fever
Herpes zoster
Scab
0.7720 0.7343 0.5935 0.5087
Figure 3 shows the fitted linear regression line when only using frequencies of term varicella as independent varible . Comparing the fitted line and the line of varicella occurrences , we can see the trendence of varicella can be mirrored by frequencies of ERT varicella , the epedimic name .
Figure 3 : Line of varicella occurrences and fitted linear regression line , with frequencies of ERT varicella as independent variable .
Figure 4 : Line of varicella occurrences and fitted linear regression line , with frequencies of 4 ERTs varicella , fever , herpes zoster , scab as independent variables .
5 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we use linear regression to model frequencies of ERTs and epidemic occurrences . We proposed a Click through Graph based algorithm to select ERQs/ERTs . The results show that the selected ERTs are effective in detecting epidemic tendency and the performance is improved when combining different ERT information in multiple linear regression model .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ginsberg J , Mohebbi M . H , Patel R . S , Brammer L ,
Smolinski M . S , et al . ( 2009 ) Detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data . Nature 457 : 1012–1014 . [ 2 ] Yi , J . and Maghoul , F . 2009 . Query clustering using click through graph . In Proceedings of the 18th international Conference on World Wide Web ( Madrid , Spain , April 20 24 , 2009 ) . WWW '09 . ACM , New York , NY , 1055 1056 .
[ 3 ] Weisberg , S . , Applied Linear Regression , 3rd Ed . published by Wiley/Interscience in 2005 ( ISBN 0 471 66379 4 ) .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1134
