A Practical System for Harvesting and Monitoring Hot
Topics on the Web Xiaojun Wan , Jianwu Yang
Institute of Computer Science and Technology & Key Laboratory of Computational Linguistics ,
MOE , Peking University , Beijing 100871 , China {wanxiaojun , yangjianwu}@icstpkueducn
ABSTRACT This poster briefly describes a practical system named FounderWISE for harvesting and monitoring hot topics on the Web . FounderWISE consists of five components : Web crawler , text classifier , topic detector , topic summarizer and topic analyzer . In this poster we present two key components of topic detector and topic analyzer . The system has been successfully deployed in a few Chinese major government departments . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – miscellaneous General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Performance Keywords : Topic detection , information diffusion , topic evolution , FounderWISE . With the rapid increase of text documents on the Web on even a single day , it is becoming harder for users to obtain useful information by reading each single document . Specific users want to know and monitor hot ( or popular ) topics on the Web by simply browsing , rather than by reading every document in the large web collection . Actually , every day ’s hot topics are usually reported in various web sites , maybe differently in particular documents . Aggregating the documents in a large number of different web sites and identifying the hot topics will alleviate users’ burden to reading particular documents . Furthermore , it will greatly help users understand the topics and obtain useful information by discovering topic related knowledge . Topic detection and tracking ( TDT ) [ 1 ] is one of such techniques to detect events or topics from a news text stream . However , almost all previous works on TDT focus on topic detection on a small benchmark TDT corpus . Because the corpus is very small as compared with the Web collection , and the large scale Web collection will bring a few new challenges for existing TDT techniques , the techniques cannot be applied directly to detect field , BaiduNews topics on ( newsbaiducom ) are considered as two popular commercial Chinese news aggregation services . The techniques underlying the two systems are unknown due to commercial privacy . Whereas , the two systems simply group news articles into news topics and the features of the systems are limited . In this poster , we present a practical system named FounderWISE to incorporate novel features for harvesting and monitoring hot topics on the Web . FounderWISE can provide not only a polished list of hot topics but also the topic related knowledge to users , thus greatly facilitate users to monitor and understand Web topics . The system consists of five components : a Web crawler to download
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 . and GoogleNews
( newsgooglecn ) industrial the Web .
In the web pages and extract document metadata , a text classifier to categorize web pages into fine grained classes , a topic detector to identify and rank topics within each class , a topic summarizer to produce updated summaries for topics , and a topic analyzer to discover and present topic related knowledge . Figure 1 gives the system architecture , and this poster focuses on the topic detector and topic analyzer .
Internet
Web Crawler
Web Pages
Text Classifier
Key Components
Topic Detector
Topics
Topics
Topic Summarizer
Topic Analyzer
Topic Diffusion Topic Evolution
Topic description
User
Information flow Topic relationship
Figure 1 : System architecture of FounderWISE
Topic Detector : The single pass clustering algorithm ( INCR ) is the most widely used algorithm for online topic detection . It sequentially processes the input documents , one at a time , and grows clusters incrementally . However , the algorithm has a few problems when dealing with the huge amount of web data and providing practical services to users . Several improvements over the algorithm have been proposed in FouderWISE to better deal with practical data and meet users’ requirements . First , a measure is proposed to evaluate the popularity of a topic and the topics can be ranked according to their popularity score . The measure is based on such features as document number , document timestamp and document visual weight . A number of unpopular topics are filtered out and only the hot topics are reserved , which can improve the detection efficiency as well . In addition , a novel step is added in the detection algorithm to merge the topics belonging to the same topic and reassign a small number of documents into
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1197 appropriate topics . This step can improve the detection results . Finally , a relevance feedback mechanism is designed to allow users to filter out the uninteresting topics and emphasize on the interesting topics . Topic Analyzer : The topic analyzer adds two useful features to the system by learning information diffusion process within a single topic and computing evolution relationships between multiple topics . The results are visually presented to users . By our analysis , documents are diffused or transmitted between web sites frequently . Some documents are directly copied or forwarded from one web site to another web site without any changes , and other documents are forwarded between web sites after minor revisions , eg , addition or deletion of some texts , or rewriting of some sentences . Thereafter , many diffusion relationships exist between the documents within a topic , and the diffusion process for the topic is represented by all the diffusion relationships . We consider the diffusion identification as a binary classification problem between pairwise documents , and we use the SVMLight tool with meta data features , cueword features and similarity features . The final F score based on a small set of labeled document pairs reaches 80 % . The details are presented in [ 2 ] . Figure 2 visually presents the diffusion process for an example news topic . relationships between topics in adjacent days are denoted by two types of connection lines respectively : the horizontal connection line between topics denotes the “ same ” relationship between the topics , and the diagonal connection line between topics denotes the “ relevant ” relationship between the topics . A long horizontal line linking more than two topics means that the topic is very hot and has existed for a long time .
Figure 3 : Sample topic evolution graph
Based on the above features , FounderWISE can effectively and efficiently identify hot topics and discover useful topic related knowledge from more than 100,000 documents on a single PC server in everyday . FounderWISE has been successfully deployed in a few Chinese major government departments and a user study is performed and the results show several useful advantages of FounderWISE over BaiduNews and GoogleNews . Figure 4 gives the real user interface of FounderWISE .
Figure 2 : An example of diffusion process
FounderWISE stores hot topics for every single day in database and users can browse the historical topic list in a specific previous day . The hot topics usually evolve with time and the most hot topic may exist for more than one week or even one month . Our analysis shows that there exist two kinds of relationships between topics in different days : one is that two topics are reflecting the same event , ie , the two topics are the same topic in essence ; the other is that two topics are topically relevant but not the same , eg , “ Chinese president visits US ” and “ US president visits China ” . The “ same ” relationships can be identified in the topic detection algorithm because the same topics should have the same topic identifier topic detection algorithm . The “ relevant ” relationships can be identified by comparing the similarity between two topics in two adjacent days . If two topics have different identifiers and their cosine similarity value is larger than a preset threshold and , the topics are relevant with each other . The precision of the detected relationships can reach 95 % , and the recall of the detected relationships can reach 86 % . Figure 3 gives an example of evolution graph for news topics detected between 2007 10 12 and 2007 10 18 for the politics category . Twenty hot topics are presented for each day and each topic is represented by a short horizontal bar . The two kinds of the in
Figure 4 : User interface of FounderWISE
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We thank Bin Lu , Xiaojiang Huang , Dong Wang , Tao Feng and Rufeng Liang for system development . This work was supported by Beijing Nova Program ( 2008B03 ) , NCET ( NCET 08 0006 ) , National High tech R&D Program ( 2008AA01Z421 ) and National Development and Reform Commission High tech Program of China ( 2008 2441 ) . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Allan , J . Carbonell , G . Doddington , J . Yamron and Y . Yang . Topic detection and tracking pilot study : final report . In Proceedings of the DARPA Broadcast News Transcription and Understanding Workshop , 1998 .
[ 2 ] X . Wan and J . Yang . Learning information diffusion process on the web . In Proceedings of WWW 2007 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1198
