Social Group Suggestion from User Image Collections Jiebo Luo
Jiawei Han
Xin Jin
Jie Yu
Kodak Research Labs Rochester , NY 14616 jieyu@kodakcom
University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign xinjin3@illinois.edu
University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign hanj@csuiucedu
Kodak Research Labs Rochester , NY 14616 jieboluo@kodakcom
ABSTRACT Photo sharing services have attracted millions of people and helped construct massive social networks on the Web . A popular trend is that users share their image collections within social groups , which greatly promotes the interactions between users and expands their social networks . Existing systems have difficulties in generating satisfactory social group suggestions because the images are classified independently and their relationship in a collection is ignored . In this work , we intend to produce suggestions of suitable photo sharing groups from a user ’s personal photo collection by mining images on the Web and leveraging the collection context . Both visual content and textual annotations are integrated to generate initial prediction of the events or topics depicted in the images . A user collectionbased label propagation method is proposed to improve the group suggestion by modeling the relationship of images in the same collection as a sparse weighted graph . Experiments on real user images and comparisons with the state of the art techniques demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approaches .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing – Algorithms , Indexing methods ; General Terms Algorithms , Theory , Experimentation , Performance .
Keywords social image , group recommendation , label propagation
1 . INTRODUCTION Media sharing websites such as Flickr and YouTube contain massive social networks , where people are connected by their common interests on certain types of images or videos and generate millions of sub communities [ 1 ] . For example , Figure 1 shows the webpage of the “ Architecture ” Flickr group with more than 29000 members and 400000 images . Most of the activities within a group start from sharing images : users would select and contribute their own images to the related group , comment on other member ’s photos , and discuss related photographic techniques . Such interactions open a new way to greatly expand one ’s social network . Consequently , the formation of groups has gained great popularity and attracted enormous number of users [ 2 ] . Currently , a user has to manually assign each photo in his/her collection to the appropriate group , which requires matching the subject of each image with the topics of various interest groups .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
This work is tedious and often prohibits users from exploiting the relevant group resources .
Figure 1 . Social groups attract users based upon their shared interest , eg , a group featuring architecture photos on Flickr . In this paper , we present a new method to make accurate group suggestions for each image using both the conventional content analysis on each image and a novel collective analysis of all the images in a user collection . Our system uses Support Vector Machine to produce initial group prediction for each image based on visual content and topic analysis . We further leverage the relationship between the images in the same user collection to improve the prediction via a novel technique called collectionbased sparse label propagation . 2 . METHODOLOGY 2.1 Social Group Suggestion We collect 16145 images from 767 Flickr users , which are contributed to 24 popular Flickr groups . Using SimRank [ 3 ] and spectral clustering [ 4 ] , we further automatically categorize the groups into 11 classes , ie Flower , Animal , Architecture , Portrait , Seashore , Night , Sky , Sunset/Sunrise , Red , Green , and B&W . Statistical analysis suggests that users often contribute their images to all the groups in the same group category . Similarly , it would be desirable to suggest all the groups in the category that matches the visual content of user image . Therefore , the social group suggestion task is converted to as a classification problem . Theoretically , any classification method can be plugged into our framework to learn the subjects of different group categories . For 0Y can be obtained a image X , its initial social group prediction using a classifier F as :
0
Y =
XF
(
)
( 1 )
2.2 Collection graph representation Graph representation has been an active topic in the data mining and machine learning fields . As data points are represented as graph nodes , the intrinsic relationship between data can be
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1215 captured by graph edge W . Intuitively , the similarity between samples can be preserved by finding the optimal W that minimizes the reconstruction loss : ∑ ||
( 2 ) xw ij
∑ min x i
2||
− j i j
≠ i
Instead of using the optimal W found in ( 2 ) , we constrain the W to be sparse for three reasons : 1 ) Recent findings in neural science suggest that human vision system interprets images based on the sparse representation of the visual features [ 5 ] ; 2 ) Theoretically , the sparse W does not make the local distribution assumption and provides an interpretive explanation of the correlation weights . 3 ) Practically , the shrinkage of coefficients in combining predictors often improves prediction accuracy . Additionally , we further constrain that the samples should only be reconstructed by using similar ones in the same user ’s collection . Therefore , the sparse graph representation for user collection can be obtained from the following optimization problem : ∑
( 3 )
∑
∑ st w ij
W
2 || x i
<
=
−
|| s
|
| xw ij ji , collection , same ∈ j j i ≠ i
, j min w i
This optimization problem in ( 3 ) could be solved by several algorithms such as LASSO and modified Least Angle Regression . 2.3 Sparse label propagation It is reasonable to assume that similar images from the same user ’s collection should have similar prediction . Therefore , the prediction among images from the same user collection should be propagated in the following iterative process .
Y t
1 Λ−=+
1(
YW ) ⋅ t
Λ+
Y
0
( 4 )
Note that Λ is a diagonal matrix with 0 y i j , ∑ 0 y i , max
λ ii ,
= j
( 5 ) j
0 iy , j is the initial prediction of sample ix for class j . The where definition in ( 5 ) indicates that Λ describes the confidence of the initial prediction . Therefore , the refined prediction can be learned from visually similar samples with confident prediction . The final prediction for images is obtained by updating equation ( 4 ) until convergence or for certain number of iterations . 3 . EXPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS We implement the proposed Sparse Label Propagation ( SLP ) method as discussed in Section 2 . The number of iteration is set to 100 . Four popular visual descriptors , tiny image , color histogram , GIST [ 6 ] , and CEDD [ 7 ] , and topic representation of user annotations [ 8 ] are extracted to represent the images in compact feature space . Support Vector Machine is trained to produce initial group suggestion as the baseline . Due to its resemblance to our method , Linear Neighborhood Propagation ( LNP ) [ 9 ] is also implemented for comparison . The unique property of our research is that we try to leverage user collection information . Therefore , instead of randomly selecting images from the entire data set , we construct our training set by randomly selecting 200 users and all of the images in their collections . The rest of the images are used for testing . The average accuracy for all test samples in each category is shown in Figure 2 . Several conclusions can be drawn from the results : 1 ) Compared with SVM , SLP improves the average accuracy from 55 % to 62 % and the relative improvement is about 127 % It shows that the collection level context is successfully leveraged in the collection based spare propagation method . 2 ) In 10 out of 11 categories , our new method helps make better prediction . It performs slightly worse than the baseline on the architecture images . Upon reviewing the misclassified images , we find the potential reason could be the visual diversity for buildings and the noisy background in some user collections . 3 ) Both SLP and the baseline classifier outperform LNP because LNP can not use the collection information and the predictions from the trained classifier . y c a r u c c A n o i t c i d e r P
0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Flower
Animal Architecture
People
Seashore
Night
Sky
Sunset/Sunrise
Red
Green
B&W
Overall
SLP
SVM LNP
Figure 2 . Average prediction accuracy of SLP , SVM and LNP 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper , we propose to use the entire user image collection to collectively suggest social groups based on the image content and user annotations . State of the art machine learning techniques are used to build classifiers and generate the initial group suggestion for each image based on its text annotation and visual descriptors . User collection information is further leveraged to enhance the prediction accuracy label propagation . The proposed methods have been tested on group suggestion tasks for real user collections and demonstrated superior performance over other techniques . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Pedro , J . , and Siersdorfer , S . Ranking and Classifying Attractiveness through collection based sparse of Photos in Folksonomies , World Wide Web Conference , 2009 .
[ 2 ] Hays , J . and Efros , A . IM2GPS : estimating geographic information
[ 3 ] from a single image , In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , 2008 . Jeh , G . , and Widom , J . Simrank : a measure of structural context similarity , In Proc . of the 8th Int’l Conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , 2002 .
[ 4 ] Kannan , R . , Vempala , S . , and Vetta , A . On clusterings : Good , bad and spectral , Journal of the ACM , 51(3):497–515 , 2004 .
[ 5 ] Griffiths , T . , and Steyvers , M . Finding scientific topics , Proc . Natl .
Acad . Sci . USA , April 2004 .
[ 6 ] Oliva , A . , and Torralba , A . Modeling the shape of the scene : a holistic representation of the spatial envelope , Intl . Journal of Computer Vision , Vol . 42(3 ) , 2001 .
[ 7 ] Chatzichristofis , S . , and Boutalis , Y . CEDD : Color and Edge
Directivity Descriptor : A Compact Descriptor for Image Indexing and Retrieval , Computer Vision Systems , pp . 312 322 . , 2008 .
[ 8 ] Blei , D . , Ng , A . , and Jordan , M . Latent Dirichlet Allocation , Journal of Machine Learning Research , 2003 .
[ 9 ] Wang , F . , and Zhang , C . Label Propagation through Linear
Neighborhoods , IEEE Trans . on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 2008 .
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1216
