A Unified Ontology Based Web Page Model For Improving
Accessibility
Ruslan R . Fayzrakhmanov
Max C . Göbel
Wolfgang Holzinger
Inst . of Information Systems , DBAI Group
Bernhard Krüpl
TU Wien , Austria
ABSTRACT Fast technological advancements and little compliance with accessibility standards by Web page authors pose serious obstacles to the Web experience of the blind user . We propose a unified Web document model that enables us to create a richer browsing experience and improved navigability for blind users . The model provides an integrated view on all aspects of a Web page and is leveraged to create a multiaxial user interface .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H52 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : User Interfaces
General Terms : Design , Human Factors , Experimentation .
Keywords : Web Accessibility .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Web accessibility research is strongly focused on the authoring process ( WCAG , WAI ARIA , etc . ) of Web documents . Yet only a small percentage of Web sites implement the proposed standards and new technologies require long adoption times for accessibility . While we fully acknowledge the important work in creating and implementing standards for Web accessibility , we see our focus in those websites that , deliberately or not , do not adhere to these standards and are currently hard to read by visually impaired users .
In the ABBA1 project , we focus on improving the navigability of a Web document for the visually impaired user . Other interesting readings on the topic can be found at [ 2 , 3 ] . We propose a highly efficient , multi axial serialization framework to help the user to get a better cognitive understanding of a Web resource and to be able to navigate on that resource more efficiently .
Central to our navigation framework is the transformation of the original HTML format of a Web document into a rich document representation — encapsulating on top of the parsed DOM tree structure a wide set of implicit visual and semantic page properties in a queryable form . This allows to reason more fully over structure , content and interactive
1The ABBA project Accessibility ) f¨orderungsgesellschaft FFG under grant 819563 .
( Advanced Barrier free Browser sponsored by the Austrian Forschungs is
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2010 , April 26–30 , 2010 , Raleigh , North Carolina , USA . ACM 978 1 60558 799 8/10/04 .
Robert Baumgartner Lixto Software GmbH
Vienna , Austria
Figure 1 : Unified Ontological Model functionality of the document and to deduce a wider set of serializations thereof .
In this paper we describe the transformation process as a combination of a number of structural and semantic enrichers and argue that the expressiveness of the resulting model is superior for document serialization to existing approaches . Finally , we present a multi axial serialization framework that encapsulates the document model into a simple user interface that supports the visually impaired ( VI ) user in understanding a document and finding required information more effectively .
2 . THE UNIFIED ONTOLOGICAL MODEL Our core innovation towards improving Web navigability for VI users is the introduction of a unified ontological model that i ) integrates the descriptions of all aspects of a Web page into one model , and ii ) hides away all implementation details from its authoring process . The unified model is a conglomerate of several specialized ontologies providing us with a rich set of concepts for the description of the building blocks on a Web page ( words , images , form elements , but also more abstract patterns such as columns ) with their properties ( coordinates , size , font formatting ) and relations ( topological , semantical ) .
Figure 1 shows a top level outline of the main constituents of the unified model . Boxed elements show sub ontologies and concepts , cloud shapes indicate algorithms and heuristics that work on them .
For instance , the DOM ontology fragment contains data that is fetched from the live page model of a Web browser . It enables traditional DOM tree based segmentation . The layout ontology fragment describes the visual appearance of
DOMLayoutTablesColumnsTopologyAppearanceContentcolorfontNLP conceptswell known formatsdomainspecificconceptsraw textids classesneighborhoodalignmentstackinggroupingsegmentationmanual and automatic annotationtable recognitionrecordrecognitiontraditional wrappersWWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1087 page elements like colors and font styles , and their topological relations : relative positions of elements , alignments between elements and several kinds of aggregations of elements for building and referencing more abstract semantic blocks . It also covers more abstract layout elements such as tables , column layouts , lists and other common Web design patterns . In the context of accessibility , the layout fragment is especially interesting , because it contains all those concepts that are completely inaccessible to VI users , but which nevertheless play an important role in organizing the underlying text elements . The content fragment deals with named entities such as place names , proper names , and well known formats as dates or prices . This fragment is also extended by domain specific concepts and vocabularies .
The cloud shaped algorithms in the diagram are enrichers for the unified model . They gather their input data by querying the model and bootstrapping their output back into the model , using the conceptual language of the unified model . For instance , a table recognition enricher can work on DOM and Layout features in parallel by reading their instance data . Enrichers can also be rule based . The unified model has the advantage to provide a common language for all the different aspects of a Web page , and allows to use a reasoner ( eg Pellet ) to discover further knowledge from the document . Rather than navigating on a DOM tree , each navigation request can be translated into a SPARQL query that is executed on the model of the given page . The benefit of the unified model is flexibility , an integrated view and its extensibility for additional semantic information .
3 . NAVIGATING THE MODEL
The unified ontological model enables us to view a document as a rich and well structured taxonomy of concepts . This taxonomy can also be seen as a graph over the document , where nodes represent the individual building blocks and edges the concept relations between the respective entities . Navigating the document now reduces to finding an optimal path through the document graph . In our work , we refer to such paths as axis . Similarily as a path in a graph implies a strict ordering on its nodes , an axis is an ordering function over a set of input entities of the document model . There are many different orderings available—depending on the usage scenario , the user , the input document , and a number of other factors . Axes can be of any length and may contain any element , from basic text to complex figures . For instance , an axis can link the entries in a navigation menu or the articles on a news site . Simpler axes mimic the behavior of existing screen readers , ordering text elements in the reading order they appear on the page ; or allow the user to jump from hyperlink to hyperlink . To capture the concept of using many axes simultaneously , we call our approach multi axial .
The advantage of the multi axial model is that an axis simply expresses a relation among entities and therefore can be extended arbitrarily . Landmarks—knots in the axis model where several axes intersect—help users to get a better cognitive understanding ( mental model ) of a Web page and also allow for a better orientation . At any point , the user is free to switch to a different axis . By changing axes on a knot , the user creates a continuous serialization flow , taking her across different conceptual sections of the document . In Figure 2 we depict two of the axes ( navigation , article ) that are available to the user on a news Web page .
Figure 2 : Example of a multi axial serialization
4 .
IMPLEMENTATION AND VALIDATION Text UI prototype . To test the adequacy of the model , we developed a prototype based on the Webkit rendering engine . Internally , a document gets loaded , rendered and then transformed to a RDF document according to our unified model . This document is then augmented with additional semantic knowledge extracted by a number of enricher modules . A first set of enrichers that provide different kinds of segmentations already has been implemented , and we plan to add more enrichers that stem from our previous work in WIE [ 1 ] , including table understanding and natural language processing modules . We also developed a browser based annotation tool that allows us to simulate the results of future enrichers by tagging a number of test websites with concepts from our model .
For navigation , a set of axis relations is defined on the RDF output . Having finished this initial setup , the prototype chooses an entry point to the document and waits for navigation requests by the user . Navigation possibilities are : i ) change axis , ii ) go forward , iii ) go backward , iv ) read , v ) orientation . Each request is translated into a query on the model , and the response is then converted to voice output . Validation . We evaluated our model in respect of i ) its capability to model various Web pages , ii ) the extensibility when adding new enrichers , and iii ) the axes UI it makes possible . We successfully transformed Web pages from four different genres ( news , shopping , forum , social site ) and used our enrichers and annotation tool to create a number of axes . The evaluation of the axes interface is out of the scope of this paper . Initial tests with probands from the local blind community encourage us to start with the addition of more enrichers . We could already see that our unified model helped us to get a more integrated view of the problem .
5 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Gatterbauer W . , Bohunsky P . , Herzog M . , Kr¨upl B . , Pollak B . :
Towards Domain Independent Information Extraction from Web Tables ( 2007 ) , In Proc . of the Sixteenth International World Wide Web Conference , Banff ( WWW2007 )
[ 2 ] Takagi , H . et al . : Analysis of navigability of Web applications for improving blind usability ( 2007 ) , In ACM Transactions on Computer Human Interaction , 14(3 )
[ 3 ] Bigham , J . , Prince , C . , Ladner , R . : WebAnywhere : a screen reader on the go ( 2008 ) , In Proceedings of the 2008 international cross disciplinary conference on Web accessibility ( W4A )
WWW 2010 • PosterApril 26 30 • Raleigh • NC • USA1088
