Hibernating Process : Modeling Mobile Calls at Multiple Scales
Siyuan Liu∗ , Lei Li† , Ramayya Krishnan∗
∗Carnegie Mellon University , †University of California , Berkeley
{siyuan , leili , rk2x}@cmu.edu
Abstract—Do mobile phone calls at larger granularities behave in the same pattern as in smaller ones ? How can we forecast the distribution of a whole month ’s phone calls with only one day ’s observation ? There are many models developed to interpret large scale social graphs . However , all of the existing models focus on graph at one time scale . Many dynamical behaviors were either ignored , or handled at one scale . In particular new users might join or current users quit social networks at any time . In this paper , we propose Hibernating Process ( HiP ) , a novel model to capture longitudinal behaviors in modeling degree distribution of evolving social graphs . We analyze a large scale phone call dataset using HiP , and compare with several previous models in literature . Our model is able to fit phone call distribution at multiple scales with 30 % to 75 % improvement over the best existing method on each scale .
Keywords Mobile phone call graph , churning behavior , heavy tailed distribution , non parametric model .
I . INTRODUCTION
Large scale social graphs emerge in many online and offline communication networks . As one specific social graph , mobile phone call networks receive more and more attentions recently [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] , [ 5 ] , [ 6 ] . It is one of the key challenge to detect the latent structure and patterns hidden in the graph . One aspect is to examine the degree distribution of the nodes in the graph , which is previously discovered to follow a heavy tailed distribution [ 7 ] , [ 8 ] . To large extend , many patterns have been discovered about large social networks [ 9 ] , [ 10 ] , [ 11 ] , [ 12 ] . For example , the degree of nodes often exhibits a certain heavy tailed distribution ( ie richer get richer ) . Various models have been proposed to model the behavior and in particular the degree distributions in a social network , such as generalized Pareto [ 12 ] , [ 10 ] , DPLN [ 13 ] , [ 14 ] , Lognormal [ 3 ] , and Loglogistic [ 15 ] , [ 4 ] . However , often those models focus on behaviors at one scale ( eg the friends within a month ) , and assume the same pattern exist in all scale . However , we observe that often at different scales the macro behavior might be visually different . For example , the number of connections one made during a day might distribute differently from that of one month ( this observation is reported in Figure 1(a) ) . Therefore , can we predict a network ’s behaviors ( eg the number of calls in a month ) with or without observing one day ’s behavior ? One na¨ıve solution is “ multiplying ” by the scale factor . To illustrate the challenge here , we show that simply multiplying does not work in real data . Figure 1(a ) shows distributions of the number of calls in one day and
( a ) Mismatch of simple prediction by multiplying .
( b ) HiP prediction for a month .
Figure 1 . ( a ) : Distribution of the number of calls for one day ( in blue ) , one month ( in black ) , and the predicted 30 days from one day ’s data ( in green ) by the simple multiplication rule . Note that simply multiplying one day data does NOT produce prediction for one month data . ( b ) : The predicted distribution of the number of calls by HiP ( in red ) matches the real data of one month ( in black ) . N = 396486732 , α = 1300000 , β = 0.01 and γ = 0993644 HIP generates number of phone calls completely from scratch ( day zero ) using the given parameters . one month . A simple rule of thumb to predict a month from single day is to simply multiply the number of phone calls in a month is just that of one day by 30 ( Eq ( 1) ) . log pmonth(x ) = log pday(elog x−log 30 ) − log 30
( 1 ) where x is number of calls , pday is the probability density function ( PDF ) of one day ’s phone calls , and pmonth is PDF
10010210410610−810−610−410−2100Number of CallsProbability 1 day30 daysPredicted 30 days10010210410610−810−610−410−2100Number of CallsProbabilityα=1300000 , β=0.01 , γ=0.993644 30 daysHiP prediction of one month ’s . Visually it is equivalent to the moving of day ’s PDF curve ( the blue line in Figure 1(a ) ) to rightward and downward by certain amount . However , such simple prediction does not produce a distribution close to reality as shown in Figure 1(a ) . Note that in Figure 1(a ) the simulated 30 days’ PDF has a big difference from the real 30 days’ PDF , not only the shape of the curve , but also the placement . Previous studies show that at certain specific scale several models fit well , such as generalized Pareto [ 12 ] , [ 10 ] , Lognormal [ 3 ] , Loglogistic [ 15 ] , [ 4 ] and DPLN distribution [ 13 ] , [ 14 ] . To date , there is no study applying these successful models on multiple scales . It is therefore previously unclear whether they would work or not at different scales . Our study however gives negative result ( see experiment section for more details ) . As a comparison , without going to details , our proposed method HiP does surprisingly well in predicting phone call distribution with the input of the total number of calls in the month . Note HiP generates the number of calls for 30 days completely from scratch ( day zero ) using only three additional parameters ( Figure 1(b))!
In our work , we aim to understand the process from quantitative change to qualitative change in social graphs ( in particular mobile phone call graph ) and then propose a model to capture desirable behaviors at different scales . Our proposed method is inspired by an interesting observation , called churning behavior , which is less noticed and studied in the previous social network models . After examining three large scale mobile social graphs from three different countries , with millions of mobile phones , billions of call records , as long as one year ’s duration , we obtain a surprising finding : the nodes in the mobile call graphs not only accumulate edges along the time , but also drop or retire from the graphs , which we define as “ churning ” . The “ churning behavior ” may be caused by the quitting of users , burner users ( prepaid short time users ) , inactive users or tourists in the city , etc . Given the limited time period of mobile social graph , it is very hard for us to retrieve who is really churning and going to churn . Apparently , mobile operators are very interested in the churning behavior , since they simply want to retain as more phones in their network and expect them to call as many as possible for more profit .
The contributions of this paper are below . First , we discover surprising patterns of churning nodes in social graphs . Second , we devise a novel model , Hibernating Process ( HiP ) , for describing the dynamic evolving behavior in large scale graphs , and give the interpretation of the underlying generation process . As shown in Figure 1(b ) , the prediction by our model for one month is reported . There are only four numerical inputs to HiP , while it does surprisingly well and is able to generate about 400 million calls that matches real data . At last but not the least , we evaluate HiP on a large scale phone call dataset . HiP produce distributions of phone calls very close to real data in every cases and on multiple scales . Our method can achieve 75 % improvement than the previous models .
II . RELATED WORK
Social graph mining : Rodriguez et . al [ 16 ] tried to infer networks of diffusion and influence . Leskovec et . al [ 17 ] , [ 11 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 19 ] , [ 20 ] studied graph over time by densification laws , shrinking diameters and possible explanations , and provided a graph generator based on a forest fire spreading process to study the graph evolution . McGlohon et . al [ 21 ] studied patterns in weighted graphs and proposed a generator . There are a category of recent studies on social networks evolution and growth [ 22 ] , [ 23 ] , [ 24 ] , [ 25 ] , [ 26 ] , [ 27 ] , [ 28 ] . Vaz de Melo et al . [ 4 ] investigated the patterns for the call duration distribution of mobile phone users , and proposed a Truncated Lazy Contractor distribution to fit the call duration distribution , which is a truncated version of log logistic distribution . Seshadri et al . [ 13 ] observed some distributions ( of number of calls , distinct call partners , nd total talk time ) , and proposed a Double Pareto LogNormal distribution to fit the data . In [ 5 ] , the authors proposed a log normal distribution to fit the call duration . In [ 29 ] , the authors found that the call duration neither exponentially nor log normally distributed , and the distribution has a semiheavy tail , which asks for a more heavy tailed distribution . In our work , we investigate the graph generated from mobile phone networks at multiple scales , and propose the nonparametric fitting and prediction method .
Parametric models for social network : The stable distribution family is sometimes referred to as the L´evy alphastable distribution [ 30 ] . The normal distribution is one family of stable distributions [ 31 ] . Reed et al . [ 14 ] , Clauset et al . [ 8 ] , and Newman [ 12 ] studied the heavy tail distribution , and proposed the distribution function , approximation method and generation mechanism . Fofack et al . [ 9 ] and Nolan [ 10 ] studied the tail behavior , modes , modeling and accurate computation way of stable distribution . In our work , we propose a non parametric model to fit and predict in different time scale data , which cannot be accomplished by the above parametric models .
Non parametric models for social network : Nonparametric model is a distribution free method ( eg , Chinese Restaurant Process , India Buffet Process and Yule–Simon distribution ) , which does not rely on assumptions that the data are drawn from a given probability distribution . Blei et al . [ 32 ] presented the nested Chinese restaurant process and showed that this stochastic process can be used as a prior distribution in a Bayesian nonparametric model of document collections . Chen et al . [ 33 ] proposed a nonparametric Bayesian contextual focused topic model . All these methods model the birth process and accumulation of degree or weights , and produce richer get richer phenomenon . Our proposed model falls into this category , while we explicitly model the “ churning ” behaviors in communication network .
III . MOBILE PHONE CALL DATASETS
In our work , our study is based on a large scale mobile phone data set which is collected from a large city in country 1 . The size of the city is around 8700 km2 . In this city , there are 2.5 million mobile phones and 15 million records per day . The size of the raw data set that we collected from 1st January , 2008 to 31st December , 2008 , is around 0.7 Terabytes .
The data set is generated from the Call Detail Record ( CDR ) which is the information related to mobile phone communication , such as caller ID , callee ID , call start time and call duration . In the following study , to make our method and findings clear , we illustrate our work by one attribute of the mobile phone communication data , that is the number of calls . The number of calls is defined as the total number of calls per user in a given time interval . Based on a set of call records , we can construct a mobile phone call graph : each node is a mobile phone number and each edge is a phone call . The number of calls distribution is the the data distribution of all the users’ call in a given time period ( time scale ) . Time scale is defined as a time period that we observe the accumulated data . For example , a day means we observe the data by one day as the time unit . Our method is obviously not limited to the distribution of the number of calls , and can be easily adapted to other attributes .
In this paper , we emphasize that our interest is in aggregating statistical analysis and therefore , we do not study any particular individual ’s calling behavior . In order to preserve the user privacy and anonymity , data that could identify users , eg , the phone numbers , is not utilized in this study .
IV . PROPOSED MODEL : HIP
In this section we propose a model for interpreting the increase and flattening of the number of phone calls . We describe how the number of phone calls for each user accumulate over time . Our goal is to develop a model that can generate phone calls that match the observed behaviors in real mobile phone call data . We also provide a fast generation algorithm and the parameter estimation for Hibernating Process ( HiP ) .
Our proposed Hibernating Process ( HiP ) maintains a set of phones , which can be further divided into two subsets : active set ( AS ) , and hibernated set ( HS ) . The phones in AS can start a call , while those in the hibernation set will keep all the past calls but never start additional ones . HiP models three processes : the growing process of the size of AS , the accumulation process of calls from phones in AS , and the transition process of phones from AS to HS . Once a phone reaches HS , it will not change its state . More formally , HiP describes the following calling procedure :
1 ) Initially all phones make zero phone call , and both AS and HS are empty ;
2 ) Randomly pick up a phone number , make a phone call and put this phone number to AS ; generate random value r ∼Uniform(0 , 1 ) ; if r < α+β·d
Algorithm 1 : HiP Input : N , α , β , γ Output : A list F of pairs , ci , fi representing fi phones making ci calls 1 H ← ∅ ; A ← {1 → 1} ; 2 d ← 1 ; W ← {1 ← 1} ; C ← 1 ; 3 for n ← 2 to N do 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 increment A[1 ] , W [ 1 ] and d by 1 ; generate random value s ∼Uniform(0 , C ) ; foreach c , f ∈ A ∧ s > 0 do increment A[c + 1 ] by 1 ; decrement A[c ] by 1 ; increment W [ c + 1 ] by c + 1 ; decrement W [ c ] by c ; s ← s − W [ c ] ; if s < 0 then n+α then else
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
C ← C + 1 ; generate random value r ∼Uniform(0 , 1 ) ; if r > γ then generate random value s ∼Uniform(0 , d ) ; foreach c , f ∈ A ∧ s > 0 do s ← s − f ; if s < 0 then decrement A[c ] and d by 1 ; decrement C and W [ c ] by c ; increment H[c ] by 1 ;
26 foreach c ∈ Keys of A ∪ H do F [ c ] ← A[c ] + H[c ] ;
3 ) From then on , n th time tick : n+α
• with probability α+β·number distinct phone
, there will be a new phone joining AS and making one call ;
• otherwise , with probability proportional to the number of calls for each phone already in AS , one phone will make one call ;
4 ) Every time after making the i th call , with probability 1 − γ , one random phone from AS will hibernate and move to HS ( hence its number of calls will never increase ) ;
From the above process , we can obtain the following results .
Lemma 1 : At time tick n , the probability of retaining all phone is AS is γ . the probability of phone i ∈AS hibernates is 1−γ
Lemma 2 : At time tick n , suppose the size of AS is dn ,
.
Lemma 3 : If β = 0 and γ = 1 , the expected number of dn distinct phones for N calls from HiP isN
α
α+i−1 . i=1
How do we generate phone calls using the process ( Hibernating Process ) describe above ? A na¨ıve approach would be simulating the process one by one and keep the number of calls for each phone . However , it is extremely slow when we have a huge number of phone calls . The total number of calls from or to a mobile network in a month can reach 400 million in a normal month , and 1.17 billion in a quarter . The number of distinct phones in a month can also reach 8 million . With such big numbers it is inefficient to simulate using the straightforward approach . Hence , we provide a fast generation algorithm as below .
The full algorithm is described in Algorithm 1 . It accepts four inputs : the total number of calls N and three model parameters α , β , and γ .
There are a few algorithmic techniques to achieve high performance , namely
• Using two hash tables A ( for active set ) and H ( for hibernated set ) to record the number of phones who made c calls , denoted as fn,c ;
• Maintaining partially computed probability and accumulative probabilities using binary indexed trees ( or Fenwick tree [ 34 ] ) and updating incrementally in Step 9 and 20 of Alg1 Note that updating the accumulative sums of weights in W using binary indexed trees cost O(log |W| ) ; V . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
A . Experiment Setup
We observe mobile phone data at four different time scales : day data , one week data , one month data , and three months data and find out a clear pattern which is very different from the pattern we showed in Figure 1(a ) , that is , the longer time period data cannot be generated from the shorter time period data by the intuitive method in Eq 1 . But our non parametric model , Hibernating Process , is able to not only fit different time scales data , but also have the power to conduct prediction from the shorter time period data ( eg , day data ) to the longer time period data ( eg , one month data or longer ) .
We select 1st day , 1st week , and the whole month , as the representative of day , week , and month respectively .
• Day : A full 24 hours data . • Week : 1101 to 1107 is the first week of November . • Month : By default , monthly data means 30 days data in the following .
B . Goodness of fit
For testing a hypothesis whether a distribution function fits a given data , there are Kolmogorov Smirnov ( KS ) test , Berk Jones test , score test and their integrated versions [ 35 ] , [ 36 ] . Kolmogorov Smirnov score quantifies a distance between the empirical distribution function ( ECDF ) of the sample and the cumulative distribution function of the reference distribution , or between the empirical distribution functions of the two samples , as a sequence . Intuitively , it can be used to test whether a sample comes from the same distribution ( KS score is 0 in the ideal case ) . KS score is defined as follows .
|Fn(x ) − F ( x)|
Sx = sup x
( 2 ) where Fn(x ) is ECDF of n samples .
In addition , we can visualize the fitting by plotting the PDF against the real data . In our case , since the number of calls has a long tail , we could plot them in log log scale . Another way to visualize is through odds ratio as a measure of a fitting to real data . We will see both plots in the experiment section . The better fitting , the closer of the two curves .
C . Churning Behaviors Analysis
Newcomer and Churner : We examine the number of people join and leave the network to exam whether there exists a pattern of retiring in the mobile phone social network . We count the number of comer and churner based on following definitions :
• Newcomer : the customer ID which does not appear from day i 30 to day i 1 , but appears in day i ( say , appears in day i but not in any of the 30 days before day i )
• Churner : the customer ID which appears in day i but not in day i+1 to day i+30 ( say , appears in day 1 but not in any of the 30 days after day i )
We notice from our data set that there is a relative constant daily in and out in the social network . For the time period we exam , the number of newcomers is slightly larger than the churner . But for other time period , the situation could be different . At the same time , even for a given time period , there is slight chance that the number of newcomers is the same as the number of churners . Thus , the churners’ impact or change to the data is hard to be eliminated by the newcomers . Therefore , we design HiP model , with parameters α and β for new phones joining the network , and a parameter γ representing the effect of mobile phone customers leaving the network .
D . Comparison Study
We compare our model , HiP , with a set of parametric models , Lognormal , GP , DPLN and Loglogistic , by real mobile phone call data .
1 ) Hibernating Process : We evaluate HiP on day , week and month data as shown in Figure 2 . Apparently our HiP model fits the real data distribution very well : not only for one day data and one week data , but also for one month data .
In Figure 3 , we report the odds ratio curve of HiP for the day data , week data and month data . Odds ratio is defined
( a ) Number of calls for a day
( b ) Number of calls for a week
( c ) Number of calls for a month
Figure 2 . HiP prediction of number of calls daily , weekly and monthly . HiP ( in red ) matches real data ( in black ) at all time scales . Notice that HiP estimates its parameter from only two values : the total count of calls and distinct phones .
( a ) Daily data
( b ) Weekly data
( c ) Monthly data
Figure 3 . Odds ratio curve of HiP prediction ( in blue ) for one day , one week and one month data . HiP almost overlap with the real in every case . as ratio(x ) = CDF ( x ) a good fit for different time scales .
1−CDF ( x ) . The results conclude that HiP is
In Table I , we report the KS score of HiP to fit day data , week data and month data . Our method can achieve 75 % improvement than the previous models . The analysis of the fitting results is provided in the following subsection , compared with a set of parametric models , Lognormal , GP , DPLN and Loglogistic ( our model HiP can fit the real data much better than Lognormal , GP , DPLN and Loglogistic ) . 2 ) Parametric models : To investigate the goodness of fit of four distributions at multiple scale data , we conduct KS test , and the results are reported in Table I . Our method can achieve 75 % improvement than the previous models . For the day data , we run 60 days’ simulation , and take a mean of each KS score . For the week data , we run 30 weeks’ simulation , and take a mean of each KS score . For the month data , we run 12 months’ simulation , and then take a mean of each KS score . The KS score confirms that HiP is much better than the other four models in fitting to the actual data , which means HiP can model the real generation process of the actual mobile social graph at different time scales .
VI . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we revealed a very interesting phenomenon hidden in mobile social networks , is , churning behaviors . Newcomers and churners in together maintain the that
GOODNESS OF FIT ( KS SCORE , LOWER IS BETTER )
Table I
Method
Lognormal
DPLN
Loglogistic
GP HiP
HiP improvement
Day 0.1881 0.3272 0.1762 0.2232 0.0432 75.5 %
Week 0.1298 0.1298 0.1238 0.1398 0.0817 34.0 %
Month 0.1347 0.2544 0.1442 0.1467 0.0940 30.2 % dynamics in a mobile social graph . Based on such observations , we proposed Hibernating Process ( HiP ) , a novel non parametric model for the accumulating process of phone calls . HiP was able to predict the number of phone calls in mobile network at multiple scale ( daily , weekly , monthly ) . We applied HiP on three different mobile social network data and those at three scales , with constantly high quality matches , visually and quantitatively . Our HiP improves prediction by 30 % to 75 % over the best existing method on each single scale .
Our findings and model may well extend to other social networks with such transient behaviors , which is a promising direction for future research .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] L . A . Adamic and B . A . Huberman , “ The web ’s hidden order , ”
Commun . ACM , vol . 44 , pp . 55–60 , September 2001 .
10010210410610−810−610−410−2100Number of CallsProbabilityα=900000,β=001,γ=0993644 Actual dataHiP prediction10010210410610−810−610−410−2100Number of CallsProbabilityα=900000,β=001,γ=0993644 Actual dataHiP prediction10010210410610−810−610−410−2100Number of CallsProbabilityα=1300000 , β=0.01 , γ=0.993644 Actual dataHiP prediction100102104100105Number of CallsOdds Ratio Actual day dataHiP predicted data100102104106100105Number of CallsOdds Ratio Actual week dataHiP predicted data100105100105Number of CallsOdds Ratio Actual month dataHiP predicted data [ 2 ] S . Aral and D . Walker , “ Identifying influential and susceptible members of social networks , ” Science , vol . 337 , July 2012 .
[ 3 ] D . Chakrabarti and C . Faloutsos , “ Graph mining : Laws , generators , and algorithms , ” ACM Comput . Surv . , vol . 38 , June 2006 .
[ 4 ] P . O . S . V . De Melo , L . Akoglu , C . Faloutsos , and A . A . F . Loureiro , “ Surprising patterns for the call duration distribution of mobile phone users , ” in ECML PKDD , 2010 .
[ 5 ] J . Guo , F . Liu , and Z . Zhu , “ Estimate the call duration distribution parameters in gsm system based on k l divergence method , ” in IEEE WiCOM , 2007 .
[ 6 ] S . Keshav , “ Why cell phones will dominate the future internet , ” SIGCOMM Comput . Commun . Rev . , vol . 35 , April 2005 .
[ 7 ] M . Faloutsos , P . Faloutsos , and C . Faloutsos , “ On power law relationships of the internet topology , ” in ACM SIGCOMM , 1999 .
[ 8 ] A . Clauset , C . R . Shalizi , and M . E . J . Newman , “ Power law distributions in empirical data , ” SIAM Rev . , vol . 51 , November 2009 .
[ 9 ] H . Fofack and J . Nolan , “ Tail behavior , modes and other characteristics of stable distributions , ” Extremes , vol . 2 , pp . 39–58 , 1999 .
[ 20 ] J . Leskovec , L . Backstrom , R . Kumar , and A . Tomkins , “ Microscopic evolution of social networks , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2008 .
[ 21 ] M . McGlohon , L . Akoglu , and C . Faloutsos , “ Weighted graphs and disconnected components : patterns and a generator , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2008 .
[ 22 ] J . Huang , Z . Zhuang , J . Li , and C . L . Giles , “ Collaboration over time : characterizing and modeling network evolution , ” in WSDM , 2008 .
[ 23 ] B . Ribeiro and D . Towsley , “ Estimating and sampling graphs with multidimensional random walks , ” in IMC , 2010 .
[ 24 ] C T Li and S D Lin , “ Social flocks : a crowd simulation framework for social network generation , community detection , and collective behavior modeling , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2011 .
[ 25 ] R . Patro , G . Duggal , E . Sefer , H . Wang , D . Filippova , and C . Kingsford , “ The missing models : a data driven approach for learning how networks grow , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2012 .
[ 26 ] E . Zheleva , H . Sharara , and L . Getoor , “ Co evolution of social and affiliation networks , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2009 .
[ 27 ] J . Kunegis , D . Fay , and C . Bauckhage , “ Network growth and the spectral evolution model , ” in ACM CIKM , 2010 .
[ 10 ] J . P . Nolan , Stable Distributions Models for Heavy Tailed
Data . Boston : Birkhauser , 2011 .
[ 28 ] R . Kumar , J . Novak , and A . Tomkins , “ Structure and evolu tion of online social networks , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2006 .
[ 11 ] J . Leskovec , J . Kleinberg , and C . Faloutsos , “ Graph evolution : Densification and shrinking diameters , ” ACM Trans . Knowl . Discov . Data , vol . 1 , March 2007 .
[ 29 ] D . Willkomm , S . Machiraju , J . Bolot , and A . Wolisz , “ Primary users in cellular networks : A large scale measurement study , ” in IEEE DySPAN , 2008 .
[ 12 ] M . E . J . Newman , “ Power laws , pareto distributions and zipf ’s law , ” Contemporary Physics , vol . 46 , May 2007 .
[ 30 ] D . Montgomery and G . Runger , Applied Statistics and Prob ability for Engineers . Wiley India Pvt . Ltd . , 2007 .
[ 13 ] M . Seshadri , S . Machiraju , A . Sridharan , J . Bolot , C . Faloutsos , and J . Leskove , “ Mobile call graphs : beyond power law and lognormal distributions , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2008 .
[ 14 ] W . J . Reed and M . Jorgensen , “ The double pareto lognormal distribution : A new parametric model for size distributions , ” Communications in Statistics Theory and Methods , vol . 33 , 2004 .
[ 31 ] Z . Wu , X . Li , R . Husnay , V . Chakravarthy , B . Wang , and Z . Wu , “ A novel highly accurate log skew normal approximation method to lognormal sum distributions , ” in IEEE WCNC , 2009 .
[ 32 ] D . M . Blei , T . L . Griffiths , and M . I . Jordan , “ The nested chinese restaurant process and bayesian nonparametric inference of topic hierarchies , ” J . ACM , vol . 57 , no . 2 , Feb . 2010 .
[ 15 ] Z . Bi , C . Faloutsos , and F . Korn , “ The ” dgx ” distribution for mining massive , skewed data , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2001 .
[ 33 ] X . Chen , M . Zhou , and L . Carin , “ The contextual focused topic model , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2012 .
[ 16 ] M . Gomez Rodriguez , J . Leskovec , and A . Krause , “ Inferring networks of diffusion and influence , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2010 .
[ 17 ] J . Leskovec , J . Kleinberg , and C . Faloutsos , “ Graphs over time : densification laws , shrinking diameters and possible explanations , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2005 .
[ 18 ] J . Leskovec and C . Faloutsos , “ Scalable modeling of real graphs using kronecker multiplication , ” in ICML , 2007 .
[ 19 ] J . Leskovec , D . Chakrabarti , J . Kleinberg , C . Faloutsos , and Z . Ghahramani , “ Kronecker graphs : An approach to modeling networks , ” J . Mach . Learn . Res . , vol . 11 , Mar . 2010 .
[ 34 ] P . M . Fenwick , “ A new data structure for cumulative frequency tables , ” Software : Practice and Experience , vol . 24 , pp . 327–336 , 1994 .
[ 35 ] A . Koning and L . Peng , “ Goodness of fit tests for a heavy tailed distribution , ” Erasmus University Rotterdam , Econometric Institute , Econometric Institute Report , Nov 2005 .
[ 36 ] M . C . Bryson , “ Heavy tailed distributions : Properties and tests , ” Technometrics , vol . 16 , no . 1 , 1974 .
