Genome Scale Prediction of Protein Functional Class from
Sequence using Data Mining
Ross D . King
Department of Computer
Andreas Karwath Department of Computer
Amanda Clare
Luc Dehaspe
Department of Computer
Department of Computer
Science
Science
Science
University of Wales ,
Aberystwyth
University of Wales ,
Aberystwyth
University of Wales ,
Aberystwyth
Penglais , Aberystwyth SY23 3DB , Wales , U.K
Penglais , Aberystwyth SY23 3DB , Wales , U.K
Penglais , Aberystwyth SY23 3DB , Wales , U.K
+44 1970 622432 rdk@aberacuk
+44 1970 621922 aak97@aberacuk
+44 1970 621922 ajc99@aberacuk
Science , Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
PharmaDM
Celestijnenlaan 200A ,
B 3001 , Belgium ++32 16 327643
LucDehaspe@PharmaDMcom
ABSTRACT The ability to predict protein function from amino acid sequence is a central research goal of molecular biology . Such a capability would greatly aid the biological interpretation of the genomic data and accelerate its medical exploitation . For the existing sequenced genomes function can be assigned to typically only between 40 60 % of the genes [ 4,8,12,7 ] . The new science of functional genomics is dedicated to discovering the function of these genes , and to further detailing gene function [ 10,27,17,6 ] . Here we present a novel data mining [ 24,18 ] approach to predicting protein We demonstrate the Biologically Mycobacterium interpretable rules are identified that can predict protein function even in the absence of identifiable sequence homology . These rules predict 65 % of the genes with no previous assigned function in Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( the bacteria which causes TB ) with an estimated accuracy of 60 80 % ( depending on the level of functional assignment ) . the evolutionary history of the organism . functional class the effectiveness of from sequence . this approach on
[ 8 ] genome . tuberculosis
The rules give insight into
Categories and Subject Database Applications , Learning , Life and Medical Sciences
General Terms Data mining , Concept learning , Biology and genetics .
1 . INTRODUCTION
The formation of a theory to explain a set of observations is central to science . Computer based methods to assist in this process are becoming increasingly important [ 20 ] . Such methods are especially needed in molecular biology , where there is an overwhelming flood of new data . Here we demonstrate the effectiveness of automatic scientific discovery on an important scientific problem . We successfully apply a novel data mining approach to the problem of predicting protein functional class from sequence .
To predict the biological functional class of proteins directly from sequence what is abstractly required is a discrimination function [ 10 ] that maps sequence to biological function .
To predict protein function directly from sequence what is abstractly required is a discrimination function10 that maps sequence to biological function . The existing sequence homology recognition methods can be viewed as examples of such functions : methods based on direct sequence similarity [ 23,2 ] can be considered as nearest neighbour type functions [ 11 ] ( in sequence space ) , and the more complicated homology recognition methods based on motifs/profiles [ 28 ] resemble case based learning functions [ 1 ] . The creation of annotated databases of protein the possibility of automatically identifying more general forms of discrimination function using data . function has now opened up
2 . DATA
For analysis , we selected the tuberculosis genome , probably the prokaryote genome of greatest medical importance . According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , tuberculosis kills 2 million people each year . Their concern about the growing epidemic has led the WHO to declare tuberculosis a global emergency [ 15 ] .
We used 3,924 genes [ 8 ] * ( over 4 million base pairs ) with functional class assignments from the Sanger Centre [ 14 ] . ( Note that there are errors in annotation of function [ 5 ] , and this adds “ noise ” to the data mining process [ 18] ) . The assignments of function are organised in a strict hierarchy ( tree ) , where each higher level in the tree is more general than the level below it , and
* For readability reasons we used “ gene ” throughout the paper , knowing that “ potenial gene ” or open reading frame ( ORF ) should be used .
Level 1
Lev el 2
Lev el 3
S mall molecule metab olism
M acro molecule metabolism
Degrad ation Energy M etabolism
Cell… Processes
Other
Central intermediary metabolism
A mino acid biosynthesis
Polyamine synthesis
Carbon compounds
A mino acids and amin es
Fatty acids
Phospho rous co mp ounds
Purines , pyrimidin es , n ucleosid es and nucleotides
Biosynthesis of cofactors , prosthetic groups and carriers
Lipid B iosynthesis
Polyk etide and non ribo so mal peptide s ynthesis
Broad regulato ry functions
Figure 1 . An example subset of the genes functional hierarchy . This example has only three out of four possible classification levels . the leaf nodes are the individual functions of proteins . A subsection of the function hierarchy is shown in figure 1 .
For example , a typical protein in the tubercle bacillus is Lfuculose phosphate aldolase ( Rv0727c fucA ) , its top level class assignment is “ Small molecule metabolism ” , its second level class is “ Degradation ” , and its third level class is “ Carbon compounds ” . We attempted to learn discriminatory functions for every level of the functional hierarchy . Success on these different levels would demonstrate the generality of the approach .
To generate the database to mine we formed a single deductive database of genes and their known functional assignments . We then processed this data to form sequence descriptions of the genes . Therefore , these descriptions are solely based on features that can be computed from sequence alone . The most commonly used technique to gain information about a sequence is to run a sequence similarity search , and this was used as the starting point in forming descriptions . The basic data structure in the deductive database is the result of a PSI BLAST search [ 2 ] ( we used the parameters : e = 10 , h = 0.0005 , j = 20 , NRProt 16/11/98 ) . NRProt is a protein sequence database merging together protein sequences with less than 100 percent sequence identity from a variety of multi genome protein databases . Using each gene , and each protein identified as having sequence similarity to it , we formed an expressive description based on : the frequency of singlets and pairs of residues in the gene ; the phylogeny ( “ family tree ” ) of the organism from which each protein was obtained from SWISS PROT [ 3 ] ( a standard protein database ) ; SWISS PROT protein keywords ( membrane , transmembrane , repeat , plasmid , and alternative_splicing ) ; and the length and molecular weight of the gene . This description resembles a “ phylogenic inner_membrane , outer_membrane , profile ” [ 17 ] , but is more general and expressive . In total 5,895,649 facts were generated . Table 2 shows the available database facts and their description .
3 . DATA MINING METHOD
We then mined this database to generate rules that predict protein functional class from sequence description . This was done using a combination of clustering and rule learning ( see Figure 2 ) . This hybrid approach has proved successful in the past on other scientific discovery tasks [ 9 ] . It is powerful because clustering improves the representation for learning ( using the expressive power of inductive logic programming – ILP [ 19] ) , and discrimination efficiently exploits the pre labeled examples . WARMR [ 9 ] is an ILP data mining algorithm that is used to identify frequent patterns ( conjunctive queries ) in the sequence descriptions . In this experiment roughly 18,000 frequent queries were discovered . These were converted into 18,000 Boolean attributes for rule learning , where an attribute gets value 1 for a specific gene if the corresponding query succeeds for that gene . Conversely , if the query fails , the corresponding attribute is assigned value 0 .
The machine learning algorithms C4.5 and C5 [ 26 ] were used to induce rules that predict function from the attributes . Good rules were selected on a validation set , and the unbiased accuracy of these rules estimated on a test set . Rules were selected to balance accuracy with unidentified gene coverage . In general the correct balance of accuracy and coverage for any particular application depends on the relative cost of making errors of commission and omission [ 25 ] ( making incorrect predictions v missing genes ) . The system can be tuned to select
Table 1 . Database facts and their description . These facts are generated for each of the genes .
Database argument hom(A)fi keyword(A , Word)fi classification(A , Class)fi species(A , Species)fi mol_wt_rule(A , Weight)fi amino_acid_ratio_rule(A , Residue , Weight)fi e_val_rule(A , Weight)fi e_val_gt(Value ) e_val_lteq(Value)fi mol_wt_lteq(A , Weight ) mol_wt_gt(A , Weight)fi amino_acid_pairs_wg()fi amino_acid_pair_ratio_qh ( Ratio)fi amino_acid_ratio_g ( Percentage)fi psi_iter_gt(Number ) psi_iter_lteq(Number)fi
Description refers to a homologous protein ( A ) found by PSI BLAST.fi refers to a SwissProt keyword found in A.fi refers to the phylogenic classification of the organism A came from , taken from SwissProt.fi refers to the species of A , taken from SwissProt.fi refers to the molecular weight of A : 1 very low , 2 low , 3 medium , 4 high , and 5 very high.fi refers to the percentage composition of the residue in the sequence.fi refers to the PSI Blast sequence similarity measure ( note that a low value means a high sequence similarity).fi refers to the PSI Blast sequence similarity measure , greater than or less than/equal to a certain valuefi refers to the molecular weight of A being greater than or less than/equal to some valuefi and others similar , refers to the number of pairs of these two amino acids , in this case tryptophan and glycinefi and others similar , refers to the ratio of one amino acid to another in the gene , in this case the ratio of glutamine(q ) to histidine(h ) . This ratio is not a percentage , not out of a hundred , instead it ’s a ratio out of a thousand . So for example 2.8 means 028%fi and others similar , refers to the percentage composition of the residue in the sequence of the gene , in this case the percentage of glycinefi refers to the number of iterations of the PSI_BLAST search ( greater than or less than/equal to some number)fi
G ene s o f a ssi g ned fu nctio n
G e ne s o f u na ssig n ed fu nctio n
G enerate seq ue nc e d esc rip tio n s
D ata b a se fo r freq ue nt p atter n d i sco ver y
( m ulti relatio n al ) 2 /3
1 /3 freq ue nt p atter n d isco ver y u si n g W A R M R
D ata b a se fo r rule le a rni n g
( si n gle relatio n ) 2 /3
1 /3
M etho d
V alid atio n
R ule lear ni ng u si n g C 4 .5 & C 5 .0
T e sti n g
R ule s
S elected R ule s
P r ed ictio ns
E xp eri m e nta l C o n fir m a tio n ?
Figure 2 . Flow chart of the data mining methodology . The genes of known functions were split randomly , one third to be held out for the final testing and two thirds to be used to generate prediction rules . The data used to generate the rules were in turn split randomly , two thirds to actually generate the rules and one third to be used as validation set for selecting good rules according to accuracy and coverage . After the selection of good rules , we tested their accuracy on the held out test data , and also used them to predict biological function for the genes of currently unknown function ( classified as “ Unkown ” or
“ Conserved Hypotheticals ” ) . different balances . The prediction rules were then applied to genes that have not been assigned a function .
4 . RESULTS
It was possible to find good rules that predict function from sequence at all levels of the functional hierarchies , as shown in Table 2 .
The test accuracy of these rules is far higher than possible by chance . Of the genes originally in the “ Conserved Hypothetical ” or “ Unknown ” function classes , 985 ( 65 % ) were predicted to have a function at one or more levels of the hierarchy . The rule learning data , at : http://wwwaberacuk/~dcswww/Research/bio/ProteinFunction/ We illustrate the value of the rules by describing rule the predictions , are given rules , the and
TB_C50_1_26 shown in figure 3 .
If the percentage composition of lysine in the gene is > 6.6 % Then the ORF has the functional class “ Macromolecule metabolism ”
Figure 3 . Example rule found for the Macromolecule metabolism functional class .
This top level rule is 85 % ( 11/13 ) accurate on the test set ( the probability of this result occurring by chance is estimated at 1.2x10 5 as the class Macromolecule metabolism covers ~25 % of examples ) . The rule correctly predicts the following proteins ( rpsG ( S7 ) , rpsI ( S9 ) , rpsL ( S12 ) , rpsT ( S20 ) , rplJ ( L10 ) , rplP ( L16 ) , rplS ( L19 ) , rplX ( L24 ) , rpmE ( L31 ) , rpmJ ( L36 ) , infC ( IF3) ) . These proteins are all involved in protein translation . When the training data are included the rule covers 46 out of the 58 proteins known to be involved in ribosomal protein synthesis and modification . The two errors ( of commission ) made in the test
If there exists a homologous protein in SwissProt with the keyword "membrane" and there exists a homologous protein in Bacillus subtilis and there does not exist a homologous protein with very low molecular weight , a large percentage of glutamic acid , and medium sequence similarity and there does not exist a homologous protein in SwissProt with good sequence similarity , low percentage of cysteine , the keyword "transmembrane" and a fairly high molecular weight there does not exist a firmicutes sp . protein in SwissProt with the keyword "transmembrane" , with medium molecular weight , and a very high amount of low entropy sequence and there exists a homologous mammalian protein in SwissProt with the keyword "repeat" with very high molecular weight Then the ORF has the functional class "Degradation of macromolecules" .
Figure 4 . A more complex rule for the classification of
“ Degradation of macromolecules ” .
Table 2 . The number of rules found are those selected on the validation set . A rule predicts more than one homology class if there is more than one sequence similarity cluster in the correct test predictions . A rule predicts a new homology class if there is a sequence similarity cluster in the test predictions that has no members in the training data . Average test accuracy is the accuracy of the predictions on the test proteins of assigned function ( if conflicts occur , the prediction with the highest a priori probability is chosen ) . Default test accuracy is the accuracy that could be achieved by always selecting the most populous class . “ New functions assigned ” is the number of genes of unassigned function predicted .
Number of rules found Rules predicting more than one homology class Rules predicting a new homology class Average test accuracy Default test accuracy New functions assigned
Level 1
Level 2
25
19
30
18
14
15
Level 3
20
8
1
Level 4
3
1
0
62 % 48 % 886 ( 58 % )
65 % 14 % 507 ( 33 % )
62 % 6 % 60 ( 4 % )
76 % 2 % 19 ( 1 % ) data were groEL2 a “ 60 kD Chaperonin 2 gene ” and Rv3583c a “ putative transcriptional regulator ” . The rule predicts the function of five genes classed as “ Conserved Hypotheticals ” ( Rv566 , Rv854 , Rv910 , Rv2185 , Rv2708 ) and ten genes classed as “ Unknowns ” ( Rv123 , Rv810 , Rv909 , Rv1893 , Rv1955 , Rv2061 , Rv2517 , Rv2819 , Rv2822 , Rv3718 ) . The prediction rule is consistent with protein chemistry , as lysine is positively charged which is desirable for interaction with negatively charged RNA . The choice of lysine over arginine for the positively charged residue may be connected with the high GC content of the M . tuberculosis genome [ 8 ] lysine is coded by the codons AAA and AAG ; while arg is coded by CGU , CGC , CGA , CGG ; and his by CAT and CAC .
Not all rules are as simple as the example in figure 3 , a more complex rule is shown in figure 4 . This rule predicts the level two functional class “ Degradation of macromolecules “ . The rule is 62.5 % accurate ( 5/8 ) on the test set . It predicts 3 genes , which are currently classified as “ Unknown ” or “ Conserved Hypothetical ” . The errors of commission are rplV ( synthesis and modification of macromolecules ) , Rv1566 ( Virulence ) and ponA2 ( penicillin binding protein ) .
The approach described in this paper is the first that can systematically find rules not based on homology . To show this we carried out all against all PSI BLAST searches for those proteins correctly predicted by each rule . If all the proteins could be linked together by PSI BLAST scores < 10 then the proteins were considered homologous . It was found that many of the predictive rules were more general than possible using sequence homology .
This was shown in two ways : the rules correctly predict the function of sets of proteins that are not homologous to each other , and they correctly predict the function of proteins that are not homologous to any in the training data ( Table 1 ) . Such rules provide a way of predicting function the absence of recognisable sequence homology . The other rules , those of equal power to sequence homology , are also valuable as they provide a novel way of detecting homology . in
5 . DISCUSSION
The discovered rules are important in two ways : they make predictions that are useful in determining the functions of genes of currently unknown function , and they provide evolutionary insight . The actual function of a gene can only be determined by “ wet ” experiment . However , bioinformatic techniques such as sequence homology detection , and the prediction rules presented here , can make such experimental determination simpler . It is clearly more efficient to test a high probability hypothesis than to randomly test for possible functions . We look forward to the testing of our predictions by other workers , and we are designing automatic methods to test the rules ourselves .
The existence of general rules for predicting biological function raises the question of their evolutionary causation . How are such rules possible , given the notoriously complicated mappings between function and structure , and structure and sequence ? Several possibilities exist : the rules are paralogous [ 16 ] with homology so distant as to be undetectable by sequence analysis ; convergent evolution has occurred , forcing proteins with similar function to resemble each other ; or horizontal evolution has transferred functional related groups of protein into the organisms . Evidence in favour of a role for distant homology is that it is possible to predict function better than random based on predicted secondary structure alone , and secondary structure is better conserved over evolution than sequence [ 22 ] . Evidence against this is that we have found little evidence for common SCOP database [ 21 ] “ superfamily ” and “ fold ” classifications for proteins predicted by the same rule . Convergent evolution seems to be the dominant factor in rules such as TB_C50_1_26 ( Figure 3 ) . Evidence for horizontal transfer of genes into M . tuberculosis is the importance of phylogeny in many rules where a paralogous explanation seems to be ruled out .
6 . CONCLUSION
We have demonstrated the utility of automatic knowledge discovery techniques by showing that they can discover prediction rules that are effective and of biological interest in functional genomics . The data mining approach described is extendable to analysis of other forms of bioinformatic data , such as expression profiles , pathway analysis , structural studies , etc . [ 10,27,17,6 ] . Information from all these diverse approaches will be able to be combined together to produce more powerful predictions than any single one in isolation .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We would like to thank Douglas B . Kell and Michael Young from IBS and Mohammed Ouali from Computer Science , at the University of Wales , Aberystwyth ; Ashwin Srinivasan of the Computing Laboratory at the University of Oxford ; and Steffen Schulze Kremer at the Resource Centre of the German Human
Genome Project for helpful discussions . This work was supported by EPSRC , MRC , and British Council . Luc Dehaspe is a Fellow of the K . U . Leuven Research Council .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Aha , D . , Kibler , D . , Albert , M . , Instance based learning algorithms . Machine Learning 6 , 37 66 ( 1991 ) .
[ 2 ] Altschul , S . F . et al . , Gapped BLAST and PSI BLAST : a new generation of protein database search programs . Nucl . Acid Res . , 25 , 3389 3402 ( 1997 ) .
[ 3 ] Bairoch , A . , Apweiler , R . , The SWISSPROT protein sequence data bank and its new supplement TrEMBL in 1999 . Nucleic Acids Res . 27 , 49 54 ( 1999 ) .
[ 4 ] Blattner , F . R . et al . , The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K 12 . Science 277 , 1453 1461 ( 1997 ) .
[ 5 ] Brenner , S . E . , Errors in gene annotation . Trends in
Genetics 15 , 132 133 ( 1999 ) .
[ 6 ] Brown , M . P . S . et al . , Knowledge based analysis of microarray gene expression data by using support vector machines . Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . , USA 97 , 262267 ( 2000 ) . the Nematode C . elegans : A Platform
[ 7 ] C . elegans Sequencing Consortium , Genome Sequence of for Investigating Biology Science 282 , 2012 2018 ( 1998 ) . [ 8 ] Cole , S . T . et al . , Deciphering the biology of the complete from
Mycobacterium genome sequence . Nature 393 , 537 544 ( 1998 ) . tuberculosis
[ 9 ] Dehaspe , L . , Toivonen , H . , King , R . D . , Finding frequent substructures in chemical compounds . in Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Agrawal , R . , Stolorez , P . , Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , eds . ( AAAI Press , Menlo Park , 1998 ) pp . 30 36 .
[ 10 ] DeRisi , J . L . , Iyer , V . R . , Brown , P . O . , Exploring the metabolic and genetic control of gene expression on a genomic scale . Science 278 , 680 686 ( 1997 ) .
[ 11 ] Duda , R . , Hart , P . , Pattern Classification and Scene
Analysis ( John Wiley , New York , 1973 ) .
[ 12 ] Goffeau , A . et al . , Life with 6000 genes . Science 274 ,
546 567 ( 1996 ) .
[ 13 ] Henikoff , S . , et al . Gene families : the taxonomy of protein paralogs and chimeras . Science 278 609 614 ( 1997 )
[ 14 ] http://wwwsangeracuk/Projects/M_tuberculosis/gene
_list_full.shtm ( 15/03/1999 ) .
[ 15 ] http://wwwwhoint/inf fs/en/fact104html
[ 16 ] Kell , D . , King , R . D . , On the optimization of classes for the assignment of unidentified reading frames in functional genomics programmes : the need for machine learning . Trends in Biotechnology 18 , 93 98 ( 2000 ) .
[ 17 ] Marcotte , E . M . , Pellegrine , M . , Thompson , M . J . , Yeates , T . O . , Eisenberg , D . , A combined algorithm for genome wide prediction of protein function . Nature 402 , 83 86 ( 1999 ) .
[ 18 ] Mitchell , T . M . , Machine Learning ( McGraw Hill ,
New York , 1997 ) .
[ 23 ] Pearson , W . R . , Lipman , D . J . , Improved tools for biological sequence comparison . Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA , 85 , 2444 2448 ( 1988 ) .
[ 24 ] Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , Frawley W . , Knowledge
Discovery in Databases ( MIT Press , 1991 ) .
[ 25 ] Provost , F . , Fawcett , T . , Analysis and Visualization of Classifier Performance : Comparison under Imprecise Class and Cost Distributions . In Proceedings of KDD97 Heckerman , D . , Mannila , H . , Pregibon , D . , eds . ( AAAI Press , Menlo Park , 1997 ) pp 43 48 .
[ 19 ] Muggleton , S . , Inductive logic programming New
[ 26 ] Quinlan , R . , C4.5 : Programs for machine learning
Generation Computing 8 , 295 318 ( 1991 ) .
( Morgan Kaufmann , San Mateo , 1993 ) .
[ 20 ] Munakata , T . , Knowledge Discovery . Comm . ACM 41
26 29 ( 1999 )
[ 21 ] Murzin , A . G . , Brenner , S . E . , Hubbard , T . , Chothia , C . , SCOP : a structural classification of proteins database for investigation of sequences and structures . J . Mol . Biol . 247 , 536 540 ( 1995 ) . the
[ 27 ] Tatusov , R . L . , Koonin , E . V . , Lipman , D . J . , A Genomic Perspective on Protein Families Science 278 , 631 637 ( 1997 ) .
[ 28 ] Taylor , W . R . , Dynamic Sequence Databank Searching with Templates and Multiple Alignments . J . Mol . Biol . , 280 , 375 406 ( 1998 ) .
[ 22 ] Park , J . , Teichmann , S . A . , Hubbard , T . , Chothia , C . , Intermediate Sequences Increase the Detection of Homology Between Sequences . J . Mol . Biol . 273 , 349354 ( 1997 ) .
