From : KDD 97 Proceedings . Copyright © 1997 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Density Connected Sets and their Application for Trend Detection in Spatial Databases
Martin Ester , Hans Peter Kriegel , Jiirg Sander , Xiaowei Xu
Institute for Computer Science , University of Munich
Oettingenstr . 67 , D 80538 Mtinchen , Germany
{ester I kriegel I sander I xwxu} @informatikuni muenchende
Abstract’
Several clustering algorithms have been proposed for class identification in spatial databases such as earth observation databases . The effectivity of the well known algorithms such as DBSCAN , however , is somewhat limited because they do not fully exploit the richness of the different types of data contained in a spatial database . In this paper , we introduce the concept of density connected sets and present a significantly generalized version of DBSCAN . The major properties of this algorithm are as follows : ( 1 ) any symmetric predicate can be used to define the neighborhood of an object allowing a natural definition in the case of spatially extended objects such as polygons , and ( 2 ) the cardinality function for a set of neighboring objects may take into account the non spatial attributes of the objects as a means of assigning application specific weights . Density connected sets can be used as a basis to discover trends in a spatial database . We define trends in spatial databases and show how to apply the generalized DBSCAN algorithm for the task of discovering such knowledge . To demonstrate the practical impact of our approach , we performed experiments on a geographical information system on Bavaria which is representative for a broad class of spatial databases . Keywords : Clustering Algorithms , Spatial and non spatial data , Trend Detection , Application to Geographic Information Systems .
1 . Introduction
Increasingly large amounts of data obtained from satellite images , X ray crystallography or other automatic equipment are stored in databases . Therefore , automated knowledge discovery becomes more and more important in databases . Knowledge discovery in databases ( KDD ) can be defined as the non trivial process of identifying valid , novel , potentially useful , and ultimately understandable patterns in data . Data mining is a step in the KDD process consisting of the application of data analysis and discovery algorithms that , under acceptable computational efficiency limitations , produce a particular enumeration of patterns over the data ( Fayyad,Piatetsky Shapiro & Smyth 1996 ) .
Spatial Database Systems ( SOBS ) ( Gueting 1994 ) are database systems for the management of spatial data . Spatial data are data related to space , eg a part of the 2D surface of the earth . While a lot of research has been conducted on
1 . Copyright 0 1997 , American Association for Artificial Intelligence ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
10
KDD 97 knowledge discovery and data mining in relational databases in the last few years , only a few methods for knowledge discovery in spatial databases have been proposed in the literature .
Lu , Han & Ooi ( 1993 ) propose a generalization based method to extract high level relationships between spatial and non spatial data stored in a spatial database . Koperski & Han ( 1995 ) present an algorithm to discover spatial association rules of the form X + Y ( c% ) , where X and Y are sets of spatial or non spatial predicates and c is the confidence of the rule . The implementation of the algorithm is based on the spatial join which is one of the basic operations in SDBS .
Recently , several clustering methods have been developed for the application on spatial databases ( Ng & Han 1994 ) ( Ester , Kriegel & Xu 1995 ) ( Ester et al . 1996 ) ( Zhang , Ramakrishnan & Linvy 1996 ) . All these methods are designed for point objects , ie objects without extension . In a spatial database , however , objects are usually spatially extended with one or more non spatial attributes . For example , objects in a geographic information system ( GIS ) may be polygons which represent , eg , communities or lakes with non spatial attributes like name , average income , number of houses in the area , etc . One can use all the clustering methods mentioned above to cluster general spatial objects by transforming them to points in some feature space . However , some spatial relationships between them will be lost . If clustering in the original or in the transformed space , it is difficult to find a natural definition for the distance of general spatial objects if their non spatial attributes should be considered .
The clusters detected by any algorithm can be used as input for other KDD tasks . Knot r & Ng ( 1996 ) study the proximity relationships between clusters of points and polygonal objects in a spatial database . For a given cluster of points , they give an algorithm which can efficiently find the “ top k ” polygons that are “ closest ” to the cluster . For n given clusters of points , an algorithm is presented which can find common polygons or classes of polygons that are nearest to most , if not all , of the clusters .
In this paper , we use clustering as a basic operation for KDD in spatial databases . Eg , one may be interested in discovering trends of some non spatial attribute for all spatial objects in neighboring regions . We present the algorithm GDBSCAN which is a generalized version of DBSCAN ( Ester et al . 1996 ) and can cluster general spatial objects ac cording to both spatial and non spatial attributes . To demonstrate the applicability as a basic operation for data mining , we use GDBSCN to find interesting regions for trend detection in a geographic database .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . We present the notion of density connected sets and an algorithm to detect them in section 2 . Section 3 discusses the task of trend detection in a geographic database and shows how to use GDBSCAN as a basic operation . Section 4 concludes with a summary and some directions for future research .
2 . Density Connected Sets in Spatial Databases In the following , we introduce the notion of “ density connected sets ” which is a significant generalization of the notion of “ clusters ” as presented in ( Ester et al . 1996 ) . We assume a spatial database D to be a finite set of objects characterized by spatial and non spatial attributes . The spatial attributes may represent , eg , points or spatially extended objects such as polygons in some d dimensional space S . The non spatial attributes of an object in D may represent additional properties of a spatial object , eg , the unemployment rate for a community represented by a polygon in a geographic information system .
The key idea of a density based cluster is that for each point of a cluster its & neighborhood for some given E > 0 has to contain at least a minimum number of points , ie the “ density ” in the & neighborhood of points has to exceed some threshold . This idea of “ density ” can be generalized in two important ways . First , we can use any notion of a neighborhood of an object if the definition of the neighborhood is based on a binary predicate which is symmetric and reflexive . Second , instead of simply counting the objects in a neighborhood of an object we can as well use other measures to define the “ cardinality ” of that neighborhood .
Definition 1 . ( neighborhood of an object ) Let NPred be a binary predicate on D which is reflexive and symmetric , ie , for all p , 4 E D : NPred(p , p ) and , if NPred(p , q ) then NPred(q , p ) . Then the NPred neighborhood of an object o E D is defined as NNpred(o ) = ( 0’ E DI NPred(o , o’)} . The definition of a cluster in ( Ester et al . 1996 ) is restricted to the special case of a distance based neighborhood , ie , NE(o ) = {o’ E DI the distance between o and o’ is less than or equal to E ) , A distance based neighborhood is a natural notion of a neighborhood for point objects , but it is not clear how to apply it for the clustering of spatially extended objects such as a set of polygons of largely differing sizes . Neighborhood predicates like intersects or meets are more appropriate for finding clusters of polygons , ie density connected sets of polygons , in many cases .
Although in many applications the neighborhood predicate will be defined using only spatial properties of the objects , the formalism is in no way restricted to purely spatial neighborhoods , We can as well use non spatial attributes and combine them with spatial properties of objects to derive a neighborhood predicate . Suppose , we have a database of polygons representing communities in a country with the non spatial attribute “ unemployment rate ” taking values
“ very low ” , “ low ” , “ medium ” , “ high ” , “ very high ” . Then , we can define that o is a neighbor of a’ if and only if polygon(o ) intersects polygon(o’ ) and the unemployment rate of 0 is equal to the unemployment rate of 0’ .
Another way to take into account the non spatial attributes of objects is as a kind of “ weight ” when calculating the “ cardinality ” of the neighborhood of an object . To keep things as simple as possible , we will not introduce a weight function operating on objects , but a weighted cardinal@ function wCard for sets of objects . The “ weight ” of a single object o can then be expressed by the weighted cardinality of the singleton containing o , ie wCard(( 0) ) . This particular generalization of the parameter MinPts in the algorithm DBSCAN and some example applications on databases containing point objects can also be found in ( Sander et al . 1997 ) .
Definition 2 . ( MinWeight of a set of objects ) Let wCard be a function from the powerset of the Database D into the non negative Real Numbers , wCard : 2D G= 3 ” and MinCard be a positive real number . Then , the predicate MinWeight for sets of objects S is defined to be true iff wCard(S ) 2 MinCard .
There are numerous possibilities to define wCard(s ) for subsets of the database D . A special wCard function , called the “ default weighted cardinality ” is the common cardinality from set theory ( ie the number of objects in subsets of the database ) . Simply summing up the values of some non spatial attribute for the objects in S is another example of a wCard function . Eg , if we want to cluster objects represented by polygons and if the size of the objects should be considered to influence the “ density ” in the data space , then the area of the polygons could be used as a weight for objects . A further possibility is to sum up a value derived from several non spatial attributes , eg by specifying ranges for some non spatial attribute values of the objects ( ie a selection condition ) , we can realize the clustering of only a subset of the database D by attaching a weight of 1 to objects that satisfy the selection condition and a weight of 0 to all other objects . Note that using non spatial attributes as a weight for objects one can “ induce ” different densities , even if the objects are equally distributed in the space of the spatial attributes . Note also that by means of the wCard function the combination of a clustering with a selection on the database is possible , allowing a tight integration of the generalized DBSCAN algorithm with a SDBMS .
We can now define density connected sets , analogously to the definition of density based clusters in ( Ester et al . 1996 ) , in a straightforward way .
Definition 3 . ( directly density reachable ) An object p is directly density reachablt from an object q wrt . NPred , MinWeight if 1 ) P E NNpred(q ) and 2 ) MinWeight(NNp,,dq ) ) = true ( core object condition ) .
Definition 4 : ( density reachable ) An object p is densityreachable from an object q wrt . NPred , MinWeight if there is a chain of objects ~1 , . . . . pn , p1 = q , pn = p such that pi+1 is directly density reachable from Pi wrt . NPred , Min Weight .
Ester
11 connected set in a two step approach . First , choose an arbitrary object from the database satisfying the core object condition as a seed . Second , retrieve all objects that are densityreachable from the seed obtaining the density connected set containing the seed . Furthermore , a density connected set C wrt . NPred , MinWeight is uniquely determined by any of its core objects , ie , each object in C is density reachable from any of the core objects of C and , therefore , a density connected set C contains exactly the objects which are densityreachable from an arbitrary core object of C .
Lemma 1 : Let p be an object Weight(NNp,,& ) ) = true . Then the set 0 = {o E D I o is density reachable from p wrt . NPred , MinWeight} is a density connected set wrt . NPred , MinWeight . in D and Min
Proof : 1 ) 0 is non empty : p is a core object by assumption . Thereforep is density reachable fromp . Thenp is in 0 . 2 ) Maximality : Let qI E 0 and q2 be density reachable from ql wrt . NPred , MinWeight . Since q1 is density reachable from p and density reachability is transitive wrt . NPred , MinWeight , it follows that also q2 is density reachable from p wrt . Eps , MinWeight . Hence , q2 E 0.3 ) Connectivity : All objects in 0 are density connected via objectp . 0
Lemma 2 : Let C be a density connected set wrt . NPred , MinWeight and let p be any object in C with MinWeight(NNp&p ) ) = true . Then C equals to the set 0 = {o E D I o is density reachable from p wrt . NPred , Min Weight} . Proof : 1 ) 0 C C by definition of 0.2 ) C C 0 : Let q E C , Since also p E C and C is a density connected set , there is an object o E C such that p and q are density connected via o , ie both p and q me density reachable from o . Because bothp and o are core objects , it follows that also o is densityreachable from p ( symmetry for core objects ) . With transitivity of density reachability wrt . NPred , MinWeight it follows that q is density reachable fromp . Then q E 0 . D
Since we have proven that density connected sets in their most general form have the same properties as density based clusters , as far as the procedure for finding them is concerned , we can use the same algorithmic schema to detect both .
Note that GDBSCAN is similar to a simple form of region growing . Note also , that there are special instances of the schema GDBSCAN in which density connected sets are in fact clusters in a very common sense : if the default weighted cardinality is used , MinWeight set to 2 , and an E neighborhood is used for NPred where E corresponds to an NN distance , then a clustering wrt . NPred , MinWeight is equivalent to the level in the single link hierarchy ( Sibson 1973 ) determined by the “ critical distance ” Dmin = E if the points p in the set noisecL are considered as a single cluster as well .
Definition 5 : ( density connected ) An object p is densityconnected to an object q wrt . NPred , Min Weight if there is an object o such that both , p and q are density reachable from o wrt . NPred , MinWeight .
Density reachability is a canonical extension of direct density reachability . Density reachability is transitive , but it is not symmetric . Figure 1 depicts the relations densityreachability and density connectivity on a sample database of 2D points using a distance based neighborhood for the points and the default weighted cardinality . Although not symmetric in general , an important property of densityreachability is that it is symmetric for core objects . This holds because a chain from q top can be “ reversed ” if also p is a core object since we require the neighborhood predicate to be reflexive and symmetric . Density connectivity is a symmetric relation . For density reachable objects , the relation of density connectivity is also reflexive . and q densityonoected to ach other by o l .
. figure 1 : Density reachability and density connectivity
Definition 6 : ( density connected set ) A density connected set C wrt . NPred , MinWeight in D is a non empty subset of D satisfying the following conditions : 1 ) Maximality:V p , q E D : if p E C and q is density reachable from p wrt . NPred , Min Weight , then q E C . 2 ) Connectivity : Vp,q E C : p is density connected to q wrt . NPred , Min Weight .
We can now define a clustering CL of a database D wrt . NPred , MinWeight based on density connected sets as the set of all density connected sets wrt . NPred , MinWeight in D , ie all clusters from a clustering CL are density connected sets with regard to the same “ parameters ” NPred and MinWeight . Noise will then be defined relative to a given clustering CL of D , simply as the set of objects in D not belonging to any of the clusters of CL .
Definition 7 : ( clustering ) A clustering CL of D wrt . NPred , MinWeight is a set of density connected sets wrt . NPred , MinWeight in D , CL = ( Cl , . . . , C,} , such that for all C : if C is a density connected set wrt . NPred , MinWeight in D , then C E CL .
Definition 8 : ( noise ) Let CL={ C1 , . . .,Ck} be a clustering of the database D wrt . NPred , MinWeight . Then we define the noise in D as the set of objects in the database D not belonging to any density connected set Ci ,ie noisec = D \ ( Cl u
. . . u ck ) .
The algorithm DBSCAN presented in ( Ester et al . 1996 ) is based on two lemmata which can also be proven for the generalized notion of a cluster , ie a density connected set . In the current context they state the following . Given the parameters NPred and MinWeight , we can discover a density
12
KDD 97
Ugoritbm GDBSCAN ( Generalized DBSCAN ) I Precondition : All objects in D are unclassified . TORALL objects o in D DO :
IF o is unclassified and wCard(NNpred({ 0) ) ) > 0 call function expand cluster to construct a densityconnected set wrt . NPred , MinWeight containing o .
;uNCTION expand_cZuster : etrieve the neighborhood of o wrt . NPred , A&Weight ; F Min Weight(NNpred(o ) ) = false
//ie o is not a core object mark o as noise and RETURN ;
3LSE // ie o is a core object select a new cluster id and mark all objects in NNPred(o ) with this current cluster id ; push all objects from NNpre o o on WHILE NOT seeds.empty(fDE’ currentObject := seeds.top( ) ; retrieve the neighborhood of currentObject , //ie N,,,,&urrentObject ) ; IF MinWeight(NNPred(currentObject ) ) = true to the stack seeds
’ select all objects in NNp,d(currentObject ) which are not yet classified or are marked as noise,push the unclassified objects onto seeds and mark all of these objects with current cluster id seeds.pop( ) ;
=TURN
In ( Ester et al . 1996 ) we argued that the good efficiency of DBSCAN is due to the fact that DBSCAN uses spatial access methods such as R* trees , which efficiently support range queries to extract the & neighborhood of a pointp . For small query regions the runtime complexity of a region query using R* trees is O(log n ) , Since the regions used for DBSCAN are assumed to be very small compared to the size of the dataspace , we have in general an overall runtime complexity of O(n log n ) where n is the number of points in the database.This analysis was confirmed by the experiments on real datasets reported in ( Ester et al . 1996 ) .
In the case of polygonal objects , spatial access methods can also be used to support efficient computation of the neighborhood of a polygon for some neighborhood predicate based on a topological relation like intersects . But because we cannot store polygons directly in such a spatial access structure , we have to use a multi step filter refinement procedure the neighborhood ( Brinkhoff et al . 1994 ) . A further filter step becomes necessary if the neighborhood predicate NPred is defined as a combination of spatial and non spatial attributes . The multistep approach to spatial query proccessing for databases containing extended spatial objects also scales well with the size of the database ( Brinkhoff et al . 1994 ) . the computation of for
3 . Finding Interesting Regions for Trend
Detection in a Geographic Information System A geographic information system is an information system to manage data representing aspects of the surface of the earth together with relevant facilities such as roads or houses . In this section , we introduce a geographic database ( Bavaria database ) providing spatial and non spatial information on Bavaria with its administrative units such as communities , its natural facilities such as the mountains and its infrastructure such as roads . The database contains the ATKIS 500 data ( Atkis 1996 ) and the Bavarian part of the statistical data obtained by the German census of 1987 . We use the SAND ( Spatial And Non spatial Database ) architecture ( Aref & Samet 1991 ) : the spatial extension of all objects ( eg polygons and lines ) is stored and manipulated using an R* tree ( Brinkhoff et al . 1990 ) , the non spatial attributes of the communities ( 54 different attributes such as the rate of unemployment and the average income ) are managed by a relational database management system .
The Bavaria database may be used , eg , by economic geographers to discover different types of knowledge . In the following , we discuss the tasks of spatial classification and spatial trend detection .
Spatial classification should discover rules predicting the class membership of some object based on the spatial and non spatial attributes of the object and its neighbors . The object may also be a density connected set of objects , eg an agglomeration of several close cities , and the following spatial classification rule may be discovered : if there is some agglomeration of cities , then this agglomeration neighbors a highway ( confidence 75 % ) A trend has been defined as a temporal pattern in some time series data such as network alarms or occurrences of recurrent illnesses ( Berndt & Clifford 1996 ) , eg “ rising interest rates ” . We define a spatial trend as a pattern of systematic change of one or several non spatial attributes in 2D or 3D space .
To discover spatial trends of the economic power , an economic geographer may proceed as follows . Some non spatial attribute such as the rate of unemployment is chosen as an indicator of the economic power . In a first step , areas with a locally minimal rate of unemployment are determined which are called centers , eg the city of Munich . The theory of central places ( Christaller 1968 ) claims that the attributes of such centers influence the attributes of their neighborhood to a degree which decreases with increasing distance . Eg , in general it is easy to commute from some community to a close by center thus implying a low rate of unemployment in this community . In a second step , the theoretical trend of the rate of unemployment in the neighborhood of thecentersiscalculated,eg when moving away from Munich , the rate of unemployment increases ( confidence 86 % )
Ester
13
In a third step , deviations from the theoretical trends are discovered , eg when moving away from Munich in south west direction , then the rate of unemployment is stable ( confidence 97 % ) The goal of the fourth step is to explain these deviations . Eg if some community is relatively far away from a center , but is well connected to it by train , the rate of unemployment in this community is not as high as theoretically expected .
We conjecture that this process of trend detection is relevant not only for economic geography but also for a broader class of applications of geographic information systems , eg for environmental studies . The steps are summarized as follows and are illustrated by figure 2 :
( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
( 4 ) discover centers ie local extrema of some non spatial attribute(s ) determine the trend of some non spatial attribute(s ) when moving away from the centers ( theoretical as well as observed trend ) discover deviations of the observed trend from the theoretical trend explain the deviations by other spatial objects ( eg by some infrastructure ) in that area and direction .
theoretical observed n figure 2 : The steps of trend detection in a geographic information system
In the following , we present a simple method for detecting spatial trends based on GDBSCAN . GDBSCAN is used to extract density connected sets of neighboring objects having a similar value of the non spatial attribute(s ) . In order to define the similarity on an attribute , we partition its domain into a number of disjoint classes and consider the values in the same class as similar to each other . The sets with the highest or lowest attribute value(s ) are most interesting and are called influence regions , ie the maximal neighborhood of a center having a similar value in the non spatial attribute(s ) as the center itself . Then , the resulting influence region is compared to the circular region representing the theoretical trend to obtain a possible deviation . Different methods may be used to accomplish this comparison , eg difference based or approximation based methods . A di#erewe based method calculates the difference of both , the observed influence region and the theoretical circular region , thus returning some region indicating the location of a possible deviation ( see figure 2 ) . An approximation based method calculates the optimal approximating ellipsoid of the observed influence region . If the two main axes of the ellipsoid
14
KDD 97 significantly differ in length , then the longer one is returned indicating the direction of a deviation .
GDBSCAN can be used to extract the influence regions from an SDBS . We define NPred as “ intersect(X,Y ) A attrclass(X ) = am class(Y ) ” and use the default cardinality . Furthermore , we set MinCard to 2 in order to exclude sets of less than 2 objects . Figure 3 depicts the influence regions in the Bavaria database wrt . high average income detected by GDBSCAN some of which are discussed in the following . , figure 3 : Influence regions wrt . average income extracted from the Bavaria database
The influence region of Nurnberg is circle shaped showing no significant deviation . The influence region of Ingolstadt is elongated indicating a deviation in west east direction caused by the river Danube traversing Ingolstadt in this direction . Figure 4 shows the approximating ellipsoid together with the significantly longer main axis in west east direction .
The influence region of Munich has four significant deviations from the theoretical region ( in the NE , SW , S and SE ) . Figure 5 illustrates the difference between the observed in fluence region and the theoretical circular region . These areas coincide with the highways originating from Munich . the theoretical influence region of Munich “ ? ? $ 4’ $
4 . Conclusions
In this paper , we presented the algorithm GDBSCAN which is a generalized version of DBSCAN ( Ester et al . 1996 ) to cluster spatial objects considering both spatial and non spatial attributes . GDBSCAN can use any notion of a neighborhood of an object provided that the definition of the neighborhood is based on a binary predicate which is symmetric and reflexive . Instead of the set theoretic cardinality of the neighborhood of an object it can use measures for the “ cardinality ” of that neighborhood taking into account the nonspatial attributes .
Furthermore , we used GDBSCN to find interesting regions for trend detection in a geographic database on Bavaria . A spatial trend was defined as a pattern of systematic change of one or several non spatial attributes in 2D or 3D space . We discussed how the discovered knowledge can be useful for economic geographers .
In the future , we will investigate the use of density connected sets for other KDD tasks such as classification as indicated in section 3 . It is also interesting to explore methods for discovering correlations between density connected sets detected in the same database using different non spatial attributes . Acknowledgments We thank Henning Brockfeld ( Institute of Economic Geography , University of Munich ) for introducing us into the KDD needs of economic geographers . Sascha Hosse ( Institute of Computer Science , University of Munich ) did the time consuming job of creating the Bavaria database from the ATKIS 500 and census data .
5 . References
Aref W.G , and Samet H . 1991 . Optimization Strategies for Spatial Query Processing . Proc . 17th Int . Conf on Very Large Data Bases , 8 l 90 , Barcelona , Spain .
ATKIS 500 . 1996 . Bavarian State Bureau of Topography and Geodasy , CD Rom . Bemdt D . J . , and Clifford J . 1996 . Finding Patterns in Time Series : A Dynamic Programming Approach . In Fayyad U . , PiatetskyShapiro G , Smyth P . , Uthurusamy R . ( eds. ) : Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , AAAI Press I The MIT Press , 229 248 . Beckmann N . , Kriegel H. P , Schneider R . , and Seeger B . 1990 . The R* tree : An Efficient and Robust Access Method for Points and Rectangles . Proc . ACM SIGMOD Int . Con . on Management of Data , Atlantic City , NJ , 322 331 . Brinkhoff T . , Kriegel H. P , Schneider R . , and Seeger B . 1994 . Efficient Multi Step Processing of Spatial Joins . Proc . ACM SIGMOD Int . Conf on Management of Data , Minneapolis , MN , 197 208 . Christaller W . 1968 . Central Places in Southern Germany . ( in German ) , Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft . Ester M . , Kriegel H. P , and Xu X . 1995 . A Database Interface for Clustering in Large Spatial Databases . Proc . 1st Int . Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Montreal , Canada , AAAI Press , 94 99 . Ester M . , Kriegel H P , Sander J . and Xu X . 1996 . A Density Based Algorithm for Discovering Clusters in Large Spatial Databases with Noise . Proc . 2nd Int . Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Portland , Oregon , 226 23 1 . Fayyad U . , Piatetsky Shapiro G . , and Smyth P 1996 . Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining : Towards a Unifying Framework . Proc . 2nd Int . Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Portland , Oregon , 82 88 Gueting RH 1994 . An Introduction to Spatial Database Systems . Special Issue on Spatial Database Systems of the VLDB Journal , Vo1.3 , No.4 , October 1994 . Koperski K . , and Han J . 1995 . Discovery of Spatial Association Rules Information Databases . Proc . 4th Int . Symp . on Large Spatial Databases ( SSD’95 ) , Portland , Maine , August 1995,47 66 . Knorr EM , and Ng RT 1996 . Finding Aggregate Proximity Relationships and Commonalities in Spatial Data Mining . IEEE Trans . on Knowledge and Data Engineering , Vol . 8 , No . 6 , Dec . 1996,884 897 . Lu W . , Han J . , and Ooi BC 1993 . Discovery of General Knowledge in Large Spatial Databases . Proc . Far East Workshop on Geographic Information Systems , Singapore , June 1993,275 289 . Ng RT , and Han J . 1994 . Efficient and Effective Clustering’ Methods for Spatial Data Mining . Proc . 20th Int . Conf on Very Large Data Bases , Santiago , Chile , 144155 . Sander J . , Ester M . , Kriegel H P , and Xu X . 1997 . Density Based Clustering in Spatial Databases : The Algorithm DBSCAN and its Applications . submitted for journal publication . Sibson R . 1973 . SLINK : an optimally efficient algorithm for the single link cluster method . The Computer Journal 16( 1 ) : 30 34 . Zhang T . , Ramakrishnan R . , and Linvy M . 1996 . BIRCH : An Efficient Data Clustering Method for Very Large Databases . Proc . ACM SIGMOD Int . Conf on Management of Data , 103 104 . in Geographic
Ester
15
