From : KDD 97 Proceedings . Copyright © 1997 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Knowledge Discovery in Integrated Call Centers :
A Framework for Effective Customer Driven Marketing
Paul Xia
EIS International Inc .
1351 Washington Blvd . , Stamford , CT 06902 pxia%EIS~Intemational@mcimail.com
ABSTRACT As call centers become more pervasive , the customers seek individualized service and greater attention . The call centers are becoming the contact centers a one stop , single interface for all interactions from pre sales to postsales , and continuing relationship . This paper presents some results in utilizing data mining in managing customer profile toward a greater business advantage .
One solution is to build a predictive customer profile based on the customer ’s Lifetime Value ( LTV ) . Many different types of data mining techniques can be combined to meet this challenge .
This paper explores the solution to using knowledge discovery methods in integrated inbound/outbound call center environments . Significant performance gain is reported on a customized knowledge acquisition system over a conventional approach .
KEYWORDS Call Center ; Data Mining ; Knowledge Discovery ; Lifetime Value
1 . INTRODUCTION In a typical integrated call center environment , operators either answer calls from callers or dial customers for diverse purposes . In either situation , the centers want the best utilization of resources including human operators ( hereafter called agents ) , computing resources , trunk lines , other media ( such as Voice Response and Web Page ) , and the physical is maximized by minimizing the number of calls involving agents without sacrificing customer satisfaction . facilities . Operational productivity
) CIIII~IVIIC
A customer places a call or accepts offers/services for , l:ffm.Pnt ronn lrn Rrr the s&me token rl;ffc.mnf UIII~IG‘IL l~cL3 ” llJ . YJ result in their satisfaction and desire to call again or to buy more . The challenge , therefore , is to identify shared characteristics of customers ( combinations of behaviors , attitudes , lifestyles , and demographics ) and find out what differentiates them fi om other groups of customers . Once customers are truly understood on an individual basis , a fc.,+n+o IULZLVIJ more effective outbound campaign can be launched . Similarly , resources can be allocated to calls from your best customers and pay the greatest attention to their individual needs .
2 . CUSTOMER DRIVEN APPROACH The goal of a customer driven approach is to determine the average customer ’s Lifetime Value ( LTV ) in a fairly accurate way so that customer LTV models can be constructed . By classifying customers into different groups with different LTVs , a more efficient call center communication can be organized .
Identify customers
A customer driven approach usually following major components : ( See Fig 1 ) 1 . 2 . Differentiate each customer 3 . Interact with each customer 4 . Customize products for each customer includes the
Figure 1 : Main Components of Customer Driven Marketing
CONSTRUCTING AN LTV MODEL
In creating the dynamic LTV model defined in Section 2 , the following steps can be taken : 1 . Build a customer profile 2 . Create an LTV base model
Xia
279
3 . Create an In/Outbound call campaign with forecasting
4 . Create an In/Outbound call survey with learning capacity capacity
5 . Identify warehouse data and external supplements 6 . Repeat step ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) ( 5 ) to generate a more complex and accurate LTV model
The following sub sections discuss how data mining technology can be applied in each step .
3.1 Build a Customer Profile Customer profile building is a process of segmentation according to definite types of customer behavior .
If similarity measures and segmentation examples are known , clustering can be achieved with techniques such as k nearest neighbors . If no classification is known , but some similarity exists between customers , clusters are formed maximizing the degree of similarity between callers in the same partition . Depending upon how and when the new classification request has been made , Aiffcwent UlllVl he “ Y CUIVI m e wnnrhec
“ #A& Uyyn
“ UVll ” U ran “ UIl taken
For building the primary customer segmentation , or if new customers have been acquired from external sources , the global similarity could be maximized with Genetic Algorithm ( GA ) .
The similarity in our interactive KDD system is predefined by the representation based on a customer ’s profile and a call center ’s activities such as telemarketing , donation , collection , reservation , and help desk .
3.2 Create an LTV Base Model The most important step in the LTV modeling process is to build time series functions that measure some properties of partitions as functions of certain parameters of the partition .
Suppose a time period A is given , and suppose A can be divided into disjointed set of time periods called Aj . One can define a function V(Aj ) that measures some property for that time period . Then one can build a global function V(A ) as the sum of V(Aj ) to represent LTV :
V(Aj ) = C S(Mk , Aj > k
( 2 )
The computation in ( 2 ) is facilitated by a judicious choice of a vector comprising of elements ( Mk , Aj ) .
Customer value can be quantified in various levels and in various time intervals . The simplest characterization is high and low in value , and time as present and future .
3.3 Create an Inbound/Outbound Call Campaign with
Forecasting Capacity
Using a caller ’s personal profile , effective caller segmentation can be created .
Induction trees are being used to extract prediction rules for the future based on past data , in order to find groups of people with high similarity in an LTV model .
When an inbound/outbound call succeeds , if the product or service is accepted , basket analysis would be conducted , nnrl nther ;t && “ I1v are also offered . slccnrint~rl mmchanrlice yy ” “ IyI~~ itmnc cwwmtwl . “ , b AA ‘ “ ‘
1&W “ L+IIYI firm
3.4 Create an Inbound/Outbound Call Survey with
Learning Capacity l
Because of the contact interface ( web or/and phone ) and its response , single/multiple nature selection(s ) , sophistication of users , etc. ) , the selected data mining technology must be :
( such as quick fast understandable easily translated to a relational database user friendly
. . . A modified C4.5 like algorithm was developed to meet above criteria for supervised classification .
If an instance can not be found in real time , unsupervised clustering is involved and more constraints are imposed .
3.5 Identify External/Warehouse Data Supplements Our interactive KDD system provides data warehouse and host interface and a set of utilities for the noise handling .
LTV = V(A ) = C V(Aj )
( 1 )
4 .
INBOUND/OUTBOUND CALL PROCESSING MODEL
The following figure ( Fig 2 ) demonstrates simplified call processes with knowledge learning capacities .
Since a customer ’s LTV is meaningful only when it is associated with a particular service or product , and one can define a function S(Mk , Aj ) to correspond to the value of the service/product Mk in time period Aj for a particular customer , V(Aj ) can be expressed as :
280
KDD 97
By talking with the callers via the telephone , IVR , and/or the Internet , the system learns a lot about their individual needs , satisfaction , demographic and psychological characteristics . All the information from callers is analyzed on fly . The key information regarding what a customer says and wants can be fed into a central database , and a more accurate LTV model can be constructed .
The database learning system presented above provides a mechanism for : .
Translation of processed database information ( from data warehouse and external data sources ) into a form suitable for use by discovery and prediction engines Extraction of rules and other knowledge from the database , which is stored as meta objects in a knowledge base Dynamic agent scripts created on the fly to understand and solve caller ’s needs
. l
5.2 Implementation The knowledge base including mined data is stored and constructed as meta objects under ODBMS for : l
. . l performance gain intelligent and efficient storage flexibility in constraint processing for various types of data better representation of the regular knowledge of attributes
5.3 Performance The speed of finding similarity and rules is critical for caller access . Many approaches are used to meet this timing requirement . For instance , the modified genetic algorithms used as a filter to reduce the number of features needed to describe an instance .
5.4 Data/Knowledge Representation The knowledge representation is created by a dynamic memory model which organizes similar cases under general categories , which includes :
A typical case for that time period for the model LTV Common features Contributing or discriminating features Relevance weight associated with contributing or discriminating features
COMPARISON OF KDD MODEL TO CONVENTIONAL APPROACHES
Two data sets were used for model development and testing : a small demographics data set of approximately 100 MB containing 600 attributes on 35,000 callers and buying pattern information , and a larger demographics
Xia
281
Figure 2 : Call Process with Knowledge Learning
5 . MODEL SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
5.1 Description The following flowchart ( Fig 3 ) demonstrates the basic information flow of a call center Knowledge Acquisition system .
Figure 3 : Simplified Interactive Learning Database System
VRU : Voice Response Unit Scripts : Information Container KAServer : Knowledge Acquisition Server DE : Discovery Engine PE : Predictive Engine DP Utility : Data Processing Utility transformation and aggregation VLDB : Very Large DB , Warehouse Data E . D : External Data KB : Knowledge Base/Mine Data including data segmentation , n + r.c DGL “ 1
,r . “ +,:, : , L ” lllallllll~
1 q OD 1.L “ La
“ “ ,,: ,+,I app‘ “ nllllarcly
An+ ” U(IL(I on 3,000,OOO callers . Data were obtained from many sources . Based on simulation and some field tests , we found significant performance gain as depicted in Figures 4 and 5 :
. +4 “ t* , , aLL , , “ ULG;b
?n I ”
The sales close rate improved dramatically by at least 30 % . The amount of improvement depended upon how well the caller ’s needs were addressed , proper products , etc .
Dramatic reduction of returned merchandise . It was achieved by tailoring products/services more tightly into each customer ’s unique needs as well as early fraud detection .
Because of the overall improvement of customer satisfaction , caller/prospects come back far more often than before .
The customer ’s satisfaction has been enhanced_ hv 15 % or more due to the understanding of their diversified needs and the use of individualized scripts which provides much better service .
Since customer profiles and trends were measured dynamically , the agent can cross sell products/ services to customers . Therefore , not only did the revenue per sale increase by 150 % , but also the cost per lead was down by 70 % or more .
Repeat Calls
Prospect Clwe
Marchandke
R&urn
0
IO
20
30
40
50
En %
Fimre a
4 : RefilmlC.!nelReneat r
Rnainess Cgqcris~n
Satisfaction
Rmnue lT: . r
Igulc ;
I3 / z . J RCYt;,,Ut;,~ “ btS,3SIL,sISLCt , “ I ,
~~~e~,(ll~c:~~~c:~
~ :^ L ” llqJat
,S ” , ,
282
KDD 97
The application of interactive knowledge discovery to a call center environment is a valuable approach . It maximizes agent productivity while meeting desired performance requirements . It beats the traditional mining process by over 30 % or more in every measure . Its flexibility in adjusting to any customer ’s condition change makes it ideally suited to dynamic conditions in both inbound and outbound calling .
Much can be gamed by positioning a call center as an interactive medium . A business entity can acquire critical customer knowledge , recognize consumers’ diverse needs , respond to these needs individually and serve them . Service itself can now be variable , determined by a current and future profitability , which is combined with company ’s goals for increasing customer acquisition , referrals , repeat purchases and cross sales .
8 . BIBLIOGRAPHY [ l ] Michie , D . Spiegelhalter and Taylor , Machine Learning , Neural and Statistical Classification , Ellis Horwood , 1994
U . , Piatetsky Shapiro , Smyth , and [ 2lW~4 Uthurusamy , Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , MIT Press , 1996
[ 3 ] Lawerence Davis , Handbook of Genetic Algorithms , Van Nostrand Reinhold , 1991 f41 Ouinlan . J , Rej Cd,51 Prwramn L J x I o Learning , Morgan Kaufmann , 1992 fnr Ma&ice
[ 5 ] Don Peppers , Martha Rogers , Enterprise One To One , Doubleday , 1997
[ 6 ] Proceedings of the 1 ” International Conference On Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining , AAAI Press , 1995
[ 7 ] Proceedings of the Znd International Conference On Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining , AAAI Press , 1996 l &uv+ht
” ~~_ v l . , ml QQ7 Amm+an _
A n~ra~:nr ; C A tin ‘ t z*YL . “ I4UYI ” AI I ” 1 N CIIII;,~
Intehigence ( wwwaaaiorg ) Ah rights reserved .
