From : KDD 97 Proceedings . Copyright © 1997 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Learning
Information to Extract Text based from the World Wide Web
Stephen Soderland
Dept . Computer Science ~ Engineering
University of Washington Seattle , WA 98195 2350 soderlan@cswashingtonedu
Abstract
There is a wealth of information to be mined from narrative text on the World Wide Web . Unfortunately , standard natural language processing ( NLP ) extraction techniques expect full , grammatical sentences , and perform poorly on the choppy sentence fragments that are often found on web pages . This paper1 introduces Webfoot , a preprocessor that parses web pages into logically coherent segments based on page layout cues . Output from Webfoot is then passed on to CRYSTAL , an NLP system that learns text extraction rules from example . Webfoot and CRYSTAL transform the text into a formal representation that is equivalent to relational database entries . This is a necessary first step for knowledge discovery and other automated analysis of free text .
Information Extraction from the Web The World Wide Web contains a wealth of text information in the form of free text . Until a text extraction system transforms it into an unambiguous format , much of this information remains inaccessible to automated knowledge discovery techniques .
Successful text extraction has been primarily limited to web pages that include tables of information . A system can extract information with high reliability based on the ttTML tags used to delimit table en(Doorenbos et ai . 1997 ) ( Kushmeric et al . 1997 ) . tries Unfortunately , such systems cannot handle the large proportion of text data that is in narrative form . Considerable progress has been made in natural language processing text extraction systems ( Weischedel 1995 ) ( Grishman 1995 ) ( Krupka 1995 ) . However , techniques typically expect the text to be in the form of full , grammatical sentences . What is found on the web is often a series of brief sentence fragments such as the excerpt from a National Weather Service web page in Figure 1 .
A new parser for web pages , Webfoot , demonstrates that NLP techniques can be extended to extracting information from non grammatical text on the web .
1Copyright ©1997 , American Association for Artificial
Intelligence ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved . facts . is the relationships The information to be extracted It is not enough to idenbetween individual tify isolated facts , which can be done by a simple key word search . The domain used in this paper is weather forecast web pages , extracting weather conditions associated with a day and location . The output is represented as case frames with slots for Day , Conditions , High temperature , Low temperature , and Location .
A typical NLP information extraction system parses each sentence , then applies rules based on the syntactic relation of phrases within a sentence . Such a system will find no useful syntactic clues in the text in Figure 1 . Worse yet , a system that treats each phrase ending with a period as a separate sentence will have difficulty associating "CHANCE OF RAIN 80 PERCENT" with "TONIGHT" rather than with "THURSDAY" .
Webfoot takes a web page source text as input , applies rules based on page layout cues , and divides the text into logically coherent segments that are passed to an NLP information extraction system . Webfoot handles a wide range of web page styles , including pages whose layout is indicated by IITML tags or by blank lines and white space , and pages with information in tabular or narrative format . This greatly expands the range of text data that can be extracted automatically from web pages .
The NLP system used in these experiments is CRYS text extraction
TAL , which learns domain specific rules from examples ( Soderland et al . 1995 ) ( Soderland 1997 ) . The remainder of this paper describes the Webrefoot and CRYSTAL systems and presents empirical sults for the domain of weather forecast web pages . The combination of Webfoot and CP~YSTAL achieve surprisingly good performance for an NLP system operating without the aid of syntactic knowledge . This opens the way for automatic analysis of a class of text data that has been largely inaccessible .
Webfoot : Parsing Web Page Layout
Webfoot uses page layout cues to divide a web page source text into sentence length segments of text as the first step in an information extraction system . Idelogially , these text segments should group together
Sodedand
~1
<HEAD> <TITLE>Forecast for NY072</TITLE> </ItEAD> <BODY> <pre> BRONX KINGS RICHMOND ( STATEN IS.)300 PM EST WED FEB 26 1997
( BROOKLYN) NASSAU NEW
YORK ( MANHATTAN) QUEENS
WITH OCCASIONAL LIGHT RAIN , LOW IN THE MID 40S .
TONIGHTCLOUDY WIND SOUTHWEST 10 TO 15 MPH . CHANCE OF RAIN 80 PERCENT . THURSDAYMOSTLY AND MILD WITH A 30 PERCENT CHANCE OF SHOWERS . HIGH 60 TO 65 . WIND SOUTHWEST INCREASING TO 20 TO 30 MPH WITH HIGHER GUSTS DURING THE AFTERNOON . .THURSDAY NIGHTPARTLY FRIDAYMOSTLY
CLOUDY . LOW 40 TO 45 .
SUNNY . HIGH 50 TO 55 .
CLOUDYWlNDY
Figure 1 : Source text from a National Weather Service forecast web page cally related facts and should separate unrelated facts . The notioll of a coherent text segment depends on what facts and relationships are of interest to a given domain . For weather forecast web pages , a segment should include all the weather conditions related to a given day as shown in Figure 2 and should not contain multiple days or include conditions for other days .
<segment> Field(l ) : Field(2 ) : </segment>
<HEAD> <TITLE> Forecast </HEAD> <BODY> for NY072 </TITLE>
<segment> Field(l ) : Field(2 ) :
Field(3 ) : </segment>
<pre> BRONX KINGS NEW YORK ( MANHATTAN ) QUEENS RICHMOND ( STATEN IS.)300 PM EST WED FEB 26 1997
( BROOKLYN ) NASSAU
<segment> Field(l ) : Field(2 ) : Field(3 ) : Field(4 ) : Field(5 ) : </segment>
< ’s egment> Field(l ) : Field(2 ) : Field(3 ) : </segment>
. TONIGHT
CLOUDY WITH OCCASIONAL LIGHT RAIN .
LOW IN THE MID 40S
WIND SOUTHWEST 10 TO 15 MPH . CHANCE OF RAIN S0 PERCENT
. FRIDAY
MOSTLY SUNNY
HIGH 50 TO 55
Figure 2 : The sample text as segmented by Webfoot
Figure 3 summarizes the tags and other text cues that Webfoot uses to delimit segments and to further break segments into fields . This particular set of delimiters should be seen as a snapshot of a system under development , rather than a fixed set of rules .
Webfoot begins by breaking the web page source text into segments on level 1 delimiters . If a segment has fewer than twenty words ( not counting HTML tags ) , the higher level delimiters are used to break the segment into fields . If the segment has twenty or more words , level 2 delimiters are used as segment breaks .
252 KDD 97
Domain independent delimiters :
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level4
Level 3p
Level 3p
Level 4p
</pre>
</table> , start : <html , <table , <ul , <pre> end : </html> , </Ill> , start : <tr end : </tr> start : end : d/p> , start : <option , <liD end : <br> , </hD> , </title> , start :
</li> ,
</td>
<p> , <li> , <hr> , <br>S<br> line beginning with word(s ) followed by ":" , line with tabs or multiple spaces
</th> ,
".S" end : blank line , line with fewer than 40 characters end : ".S" , tabs or multiple spaces
Weather forecast domain delimiters :
Level 3p start : line with a weekday followed by " : sentence beginning with a weekday , line beginning with "."
" or "" ,
S stands for whitespace , and D stands for digit
Figure 3 : Delimiters used by Webfoot to parse web page layout
If a segment still has more than twenty words , then level 3 delimiters are used as segment breaks , otherwise as field breaks . In any case , level 4 delimiters are used as field breaks . Pre formatted sections and pages without HTML tags use delimiters 3p and 4p rather than 3 and 4 .
In addition to domain independent rules , Webfoot may be tailored to the writing style of web pages in a particular domain with the addition of domain specific delimiters . Three additional delimiters were added for the weather forecast domain to force a new segment when a new day of the week was mentioned and for a National Weather Service convention of beginning bulleted items with a period .
CRYSTAL : Learning CI~YSTAL is an NLP system that automatically induces a set of domain specific information extraction rules from traini,lg examples . The input to CFtYSTAL
Extraction
Rules that are produced by Webfoot is a set of instances is a or some other sentence analyzer . Each instance text segment , divided into fields . A syntactic analyzer would label these fields as "subject" , "verb" , "object" , and so forth . Webfoot simply calls them "field" . is a semantic lexi
An additional input to CRYSTAL con used to look up the word sense of individual words to create rules that in the text . This allows CRYSTAL apply to broad classes of words , which is critical for leveraging broad coverage from a limited amount of training . For the weather forecast domain , a semantic lexicon was created by hand consisting of 86 words with the semantic class Weather_Condition ( "cloudy" , "fair" , etc . ) and 42 words with the semantic class Time or Day .
"precipitation" ,
CRYSTAL rules , called concept definitions have a set of constraints that apply to fields in an instance . These may require the field semantic classes or terms . A term may be a word , punctuation , or HTML tag . to include particular
Some of the fields in the concept definition are designated as extracting one or more slots of the target concept . If all the constraints in a concept definition are met , CRYSTAL creates a case frame with fields of the instance filling slots in the case frame as specified in the concept definition . has constraints
Figure 4 shows a concept definition that was induced from a set of National Weather Service web pages . This concept definition on three fields . One field must include the semantic class Weather_Condition and also a period . Another field must include the semantic class Day and both a period and "" A third field must include the word "high" and a period . If all three constraints are met , then CRYSTAL extracts Conditions , Day , and High from the fields indicated in the concept definitions .
Forecast
ID : 459
GENERALIZED
Concept type Status : Constraints : Field : : classes : terms :
Field : : classes : terms :
Field : :
( extract Conditions )
Weather_Condition "."
Day ""
"
"
( extract Day ) terms :
Coverage :
"HIGH" , ","
94
( extract High )
Errors : 1
Figure 4 : A CRYSTAL concept definition Conditions , and High for Day ,
CRYSTAL uses a machine learning covering algoto Michalski ’s AQ algorithm ( Michalski rithm similar 1983 ) and Clark and Niblett ’s CN2 algorithm ( Clark and Niblett 1989 ) . It is a supervised learning method that requires manually annotated training in which each reference to target concepts of the domain has been tagged . CRYSTAL begins with the most rethat cover each positive strictive concept definitions
texts training instance . Concept definitions are then generalized by unifying similar definitions .
Empirical
Results Webfoot and CRYSTAL were tested on a domain of weather forecast web pages . Three weather sources were tested that represent widely divergent styles of web pages . The CNN Weather Service has automatically generated pages with extensive use of HTML tags . The National Weather Service ( NWS ) presents information in series of related sentence fragments , but uses different page layout styles for different regional weather centers . The Australian Bureau of Meteorology ( Aus ) has web pages without HTML tags and with no consistency in page layout for different regions . A corpus of twenty web pages were annotated for each weather service , two pages each from ten cities or regions .
The metrics used are recall and precision . Recall is instances that were identithe percentage of positive fied by the system . Precision is the percentage correct of the instances reported as positive . Rules for each combination of case frame slots were tested separately . If the rule base extracts this combination of slots from a test instance , and each extracted field has the approIf any priate annotation , of the extracted fields lack the proper annotation , it counts as an error . this counts as one correct .
Table 1 shows results for the weather forecast do random partitions main . These are averages of fifty into 90 % training and 10 % blind test set . The columns labeled NWS 1 and Aus 1 used Webfoot with only domain independent For NWS 2 and Aus 2 , three domain specific delimiters were added independent rules . to Webfoot . CNN used only domain
( tailored rules . to NWS )
The CNN web pages have such a high regularity that rules can be learned from as few as two
100 % reliable documents . The National Weather Service training formatted and present informapages are less rigidly tion but CRYSTAL was able to learn reliable rules that extract over 90 % of the information with precision over 90 % for combinations of slots that include weather conditions . in sentence fragments ,
Web pages from Australia were so varied that training from one weather station was often little help in learning rules for another weather station . For higher performance , the training data should include multiple pages for each weather station in the test set . lexicon
Extracting information about Location showed the CRYSTAL was provided with lowest performance . for words with semantic class a semantic Weather_Condition , Time , or Day , but there was no corresponding terms . CRYSTAL can compensated for by learning straints , times . this somewhat location names one at a time as term conif the training mentions a location multiple of city names and geographical list
Soderland
253
Table 1 : Performance in the Weather Forecast Domain
Concept Day,Conditions,High,Low Day , Conditions,High Day,Conditions,Low Day,Conditions Day,Location Location % Correct % Lump errors % Split errors
Segments
CNN
Rec 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Pre 100.0 100.0 1O0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
100,0 0.0 0.0
Rec 28.0 18.6 9.3 21.1 50.2 55.5
Pre 5.0 25.4 15.1 64.0 44.8 49.4
Rec 90.3 92.0 90.7 96.5 59.1 63.1
20.9 79.1 0.0
98.3 1.7 0.0
NWS 1
NWS 2
Aus 1
Pre 95.9 95.4 92.6 92.1 97.0 97.0
Rec 52.0 26.9 67.3 34.6 23.1 23.8
Pre 94.0 83.3 95.3 83.3 56.4 81.4
81.8 14.9 3.3
Aus 2
Rec 34,1 63,0 47,1 46,3 18.3 17,2
Pre 85.5 88.3 94.2 83.2 64.9 75.0
95.8 0.9 3.3
Table 1 also shows tile percentage of correct segmentation 2 for each of the weather sites and each version of Webfoot . "Lump errors" are when unrelated information or multiple days’ weather is included in the same segment . "Split errors" are when related information is split between two or more segments . Without the domain specific rules , Webfoot often ran together entries for multiple days , especially in NWS web pages . This had a serious impact on recall and precision .
Conclusions information inaccessible
Webfoot and CRYSTAL allow automatic extraction from a class of web page text data that has been largely to automated systems . Text in non grammatical sentence fragments as well as text in tabular format are parsed by Webfoot into coherent text segments based on page layout cues . CRYSTAL tllen learns domain specific rules for information extraction . High performance can be obtained even though CRYSTAL was originally designed to rely on syntactic iuformation within full sentences .
Extraction rules for highly structured tables can be learned from as few as two training documents . The performance of Webfoot on this domain suggests that a set of domain independent rules are sufficient to parse web pages that make extensive use of HTML tags .
Free text narrative and web pages without HTML tags pose a harder problem , and require several annotated training examples for each web site . Webfoot may need a small number of domain specific rules , such as those testing for days of the week to begin a new segment in weather forecast pages . In addition , CRYSTAL needs a semantic lexicon that lists words of semantic classes relevant to the domain .
Webfoot and CRYSTAL create a formal representa tion of the text that is equivalent to relational database entries . This provides unambiguous input to later processing , such as classifying individual texts , summarizing data from a large collections of texts , and discovering trends and relationships that span texts . The current experiments are limited to developing and testing the text extraction tools . The next step is to incorporate Webfoot and CRYSTAL as components in a full knowledge discovery application .
2of segments containing relevant information
254 KDD 97
Acknowledgments : This research was funded in part by Office of Naval Research grant 92 J 1946 , by ARPA / Rome Labs grant F30602 95 1 0024 , by a gift from Rockwell International Palo Alto Research , and by National Science Foundation grant IRI 9357772 . CRYSTAL was provided by the NLP Laboratory , University of Massachusetts Computer Science Department , Amherst , Massachusetts . Copyright 1990 1996 by the Apphed Computing Systems Institute of Massachusetts , Inc . ( ACSIOM ) .
References for MUC 6 or
1 % . The NYU System
Doorenbos , R . , Etzioni , O . , and Weld , D . A Scalable Comparison Shopping Agent for the World Wide Web In Proceedings of the First International Conference on Autonomous Agents , 39 48 , 1997 . Clark , P . and Niblett , T . The CN2 Induction Algorithm . Machine Learning , 3,261 283 , 1989 . Grisllman , Where ’s the Syntax ? In Proceedings of the Sixth Message Understanding Conference , Morgan Kaufinann Publishers , 167 175 , 1995 . Kushmerick , N . , Weld , D . , Doorenbos , R . Wrapper hlduction for Information Extraction . In Proceedings of the Fifteenth bzternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 1997 . Michalski , R . S . A Theory and Methodology of Inductive Learning . Artificial h~telligence , 20 , 111 161 , 1983 . Soderland , S . , Fisher , D . , Aseltine , J . , Lehnerr , W . CRYSTAL : Inducing a Conceptual Dictionary . In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International 1314Joint Conference on Artificial 1321 , 1995 . Soderland , S . Learning Text Analysis Rules for Domain specific Natural Language Processing . PhD thesis , report UM CS 1996 087 University of Massachusetts , Amherst , 1997 . Krupka , G . SRA : Description of the SRA System as Used for MUC 6 . In Proceedings of the Sixth Message Understanding Conference , Morgan KaufmaIm Publishers , 221 236 , 1995 . Weischedel , K . BBN : Description of the PLUM System as Used for MUC 6 . In Proceedings of the Sixth Message Understanding Conference , Morgan Kaufmann Publishers , 55 70 , 1995 .
Intelligence , technical
