From : KDD 97 Proceedings . Copyright © 1997 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
MineSet : An Integrated System for Data Mining
Cliff Brunk
James Kelly
Ron Kohavi
Data Mining and Visualization
Silicon Graphics , Inc . 2011 N . Shoreline Blvd
Mountain View , CA 94043 1389 {brunk,jkelly,ronnyk}@engrsgicom
Abstract
MineSetTM , Silicon Graphics’ interactive system for data mining , integrates three powerful technologies : database access , analytical data mining , and data visualization . It supports the knowledge discovery process from data access and preparation through iterative analysis and visualization to deployment . MineSet is based on a client server architecture that scales to large databases . The database access component provides a rich set of operators that can be used to preprocess and transform the stored data into forms appropriate for visualization and analytical mining . The 3D visualization capabilities allow direct data visualization for exploratory analysis , including tools for displaying high dimensional data containing geographical and hierarchical information . The analytical mining algorithms help identify potentially interesting models of the data , which can be viewed using visualization tools specialized for the learned models . Third party vendors can interface to the MineSet tools for model deployment and for integration with other packages .
Introduction
This paper provides an overview of MineSet 2.0 and illustrates how it integrates technologies to provide an interactive tool that can help in the knowledge discovery process . three foundational
For business users , MineSet provides a state of theart general purpose stand alone data access , analysis , For third party developers , and visualization MineSet provides the technological foundation needed to create cutting edge domain specific applications requiring this technology . The current development direction is to extend the set of analytical and visual data mining techniques while simultaneously increasing the level of integration between these techniques . tool .
System Architecture
MineSet employs a three tiered architecture . The first tier is the client , which includes Tool Manager and the Copyright @ 1997 , American Association for Artificial Intelligence ( www . aaai . org ) . All right reserved . is the graphical tools . Tool Manager invoking a visual tool with Tool Manager , visualization interface through which the user interacts with MineSet . The visualization tools are used to display data and models of data generated by the mining algorithms . After the user can interact directly with that tool and send information from it to other tools via Tool Manager . The second tier is the server , which includes Data Mover and the analytical mining engines . Data Mover is the database access and data transformation component It extracts data from the source , transof MineSet . forms it , and orchestrates moving it from one MineSet component to another . The mining tools are used to generate models that can be applied to new data or visualized . The third tier is the data source , which includes the storage subsystem the users data . It can be either a file or a commercial database such as Oracle , Sybase , or Informix . The tiers are not tied to specific machines : all three can reside on a single hardware platform or three separate machines . that maintains the size of the problem . Mining requires powerful hardware :
This architecture provides the flexibility needed to large scale with databases a substantial amount of memory , a number of fast CPUs , and high Desktop machines are not powerI/O bandwidth . ful enough to support mining data beyond tens of megabytes . allows mining to be done on a powerful server machine , while the client can reside on a smaller PC or workstation . When working with small databases or during pilot projects , the architecture has the flexibility to allow the client , server and data source all to reside on a single machine . Any OpenGL/X windows enabled workstation or PC can be used to interact with MineSet .
The MineSet architecture
Visual Mining
MineSet provides a rich set of visualization tools that enable users to interactively explore data and quickly discover new patterns , trends , and relationships . The human perception system can identify anomalies and in a representative patterns much faster landscape than in a spreadsheet . The tools utilize 2D and 3D that take advantage of a person ’s ability landscapes
Brunk
135
The Splat Visualizer there are tens of thousands smoothing . of records ;
1 right ) displays it The Map data with a spaa polygonal map must be provided the polygon ’s tofor the same spatial data hierarand map can be mapped the hierarchy displays linked to at each node .
Additional and color ; multiple maps may be to show different two
( Figure scatterplots independent and boxplots . two attributes attributes The Tree Visualizer the points using Gaussian histograms ure 1 left ) displays three axes , entity sions : tion , and animation . plots when blurs Visualizer tial component ; and height gether geography . chically ; attributes capabilities ping attributes shape ) ; manipulating and mouse movements zoom ; data slicing and animating ers for two additional in Figure ments in data . These capabilities high dimensional overload usually
1 ( left ) ; the scene ; users can determine drilling down to graphical to a histogram shared by most visual independent and searching allow users without attributes the scene using for rotation , tools include : map(color , height , thumb wheels translation , by manpulating variables by pointing and slidas shown to elethe large filtering and to visualize the tasks . the visual information in space , track movement , of different to visualization sizes , colors , and shapes . and navigation , the filtering to quickly reduce and search the landscape facilities and compare In additools contain allow to items of inter that to navigate objects tion sophisticated users est .
The Statistics Visualizer displays
The Scatter Visualizer basic statistics in ( Figwith up to eight dimenrotathrough the scatter size , entity extends shown color , entity attributes databases associated with such In this section we breifly described independently that can be used ing algorithms . ical mining the specialized the results of those algorithms . visual tools tools , and the subsequent
The next section describes tools of the analytical minthe analytsection describes that help users understand d an provides to C4.5 such as classifier tools inducers generators include a suite of analytical
Analytical Data Mining Engines mining
( Q uin an 1993 ) ) Simple/Naive Bayes association 1997 ) 1995 ) . The classifiers
MineSet based on proven algorithms , ( Mitchell Agrawal similar ( Duda & Hart 1973 ; Domingos & Pazzani wrapper style pear ) , and 1997 ) . Holdout timate neSet provides ing algorithms making experienced
1996 ) with to ap(Kohavi & Kunz to escan be used accuracy of classifiers . Mifor all minthem easy to use , while allowing
( Kohavi & John trees
( Srikand & trees the future prediction and cross validation selection decision feature option reasonable decision settings default
1 users to optimize analytical mining
MineSet ’s on MU++ 1996 ) , the Maching Learning source is freely available
( Kohavi , code the standard components defaults . are based & Dougherty in C++ . MCC++ purposes , for research
Sommerfield , library
136
KDD 97 architecture and promoting to promoting research , offers MineSet research novel framework rean ideas data mining having a strategic developed inteThis openness as nothing and nothing is is can be easily future releases of MineSet . for easy model deployment , the mining algorithms because openness In addition providing search . open mining advantage the MLC++ within grated into also allows hidden proprietary MineSet about creates binning selection . important age with
Automatic technology and bins of to aid users are automatic
The binning the generated models . about also uses the underlying Machine Learning in other opera binning file yields two most ( discretization ) unequal width based on entropy minimizato salary of 21 , 23 , 24 , are the ages and Statistics tions of the KDD process . examples feature ( possibly ) tion . For example , for the UC1 census 27 , 30 , 35 , 41 , 54 , 61 , 67 . Note how bin unequal , with between 20 and 30 , and bigger attribute attributes tant attributes based on oblivious Thus , when a user needs terplot can ask the system are important ranges aids users task . MineSet identifies entropy minimization ( Kohavi & Li 1995 ) . the axes for a scata given factor , he or she that above 30 . Automatic relevant in finding the impor some attributes factor . selection for their trees to select using conditional to recommend for explaining to understand thresholds in order intervals decision respect ranges small four that the
Visualizing Models sorting , so that is coupled association in MineSet for searching , alone . The decision can be displayed using learned models . Combining tool that aids users in understand by each component induced
Each analytical mining algorithm with a visualization ing the tools with visual mining provides provided classifier alizer . The simple Bayes model can be displayed manipulated visualization analytical mining added value over that tree the Tree Visuand the Evidence Visualizer . A similar rules . the model ; filtering , using tool exists for viewing tools do not simply display facilities down , can be The Evidence Vi2 ) shows a simple Bayes model . The to pies corre
The visual they provide and drilling viewed at several sualizer real power of the visualizer “ what support if ” analysis . sponding to known values users can see the affect made by this classification model . The Decision Tree Visualizer tree . Users can navigate paradigm . those moved ditional Visualizer rules . they are dynamically subtree apart to make room levels are introduced 3 right ) tree , are and adthe scene . The Rule for attributes , they have on the predictions over the decision As for more detail into areas of the nodes shows a set of association
3 left ) shows a decision tree using a fly through complex models levels of detail . fly to specific
By selecting
( or ranges ) its ability expanded :
( Figure
( Figure
( Figure comes from
Figure 1 : Left : A Scatterplot for 10 insurance companies and their policy sales . The cube size represents the total revenue . The upper right portion shows a 2D density plot for the two independent attributes for data slicing . The center right portion shows the VCR controls for animations . Right : A map of the US with height representing the US population in 1990 .
Figure 2 : An Evidence Visualizer view for census data on adults working in the US . The pie in the right pane shows the prior probability distribution for adults making over and under $50,000 . The pies in the left pane show each atttribute and the amount of evidence ( pie slice size ) each value or range adds to each class label . For example , age is an important factor for making high salaries , with evidence slightly decreasing for the last pie ( over 61 years old ) . Each pie ’s height is proportional to the number of records in the corresponding value or range .
Figure 3 : Left : A Tree Visualizer view for the iris dataset ; the bars represent the class distribution , the base height represents the number of records , and the base color ranges from red ( impure ) to green ( pure ) . Right figure : a Rule Visualizer view of supermarket items . The height of each bar represents how well the attribute value on the left predicts the attribute value on the right . The disks represent the probability of the right side alone . The colors represent the frequency of both the left hand side and the right hand side occuring together .
Brunk
137
Managing the KDD Process supports to visualization
In addition neSet cess ( Fayyad , Piatetsky Shapiro , section Mover play in helping execute and manage focuses on the role that Tool Manager the broader discovery and analytical mining , Miknowledge pro& Smyth 1996 ) . This and Data this process . interspecand graphical sources , visualization setting data a consistent Selecting provides tools .
Tool Manager are all done via a point and click
The Tool Manager parameters for managing to all of the transformations , face ifying data mining interface . history the user and allows updating many data mining systems the analytic state of the art data transformation analytic tools or the visual and visual capabilities . all the operations performed also provides them focus primarily a graphic by in the future . While on either tools , MineSet combines tools with extensive
The key data transformation facilities in MineSet are transposition , in Tool Manager and expressions . and executed in accordance with aggregation , binning , These are specified Data Mover on the server , chitectural erations philosophy that CPU and I/O should be done on a fast machine . from raw data values for binning translates interface a rich by the arop intensive to bins . Miat linear
Binning neSet provides tributes types . Aggregation on various groups it may be useful action database total purchase amount to summing , MineSet and average aggregation enables data that exist to summarize by summing to be summarized based in the data . For example , from a transthus giving the data purchases , a for each customer . In addition supports minimum , maximum , operations .
Transpose creates new for the same entity , records to be transformed records tion ‘(profile ” that ple , with pose can create one record per customer , new attribute is more amenable data contains name if the original the customer for each possible product and product attributes allowing multiple from multiple transacinto a single customer For examto mining . records transactional trans bought , containing bought .
Expressions can be used to define new attributes us a and functions . can be defined ing standard mathematical For example , as the sum of the billing constituents . a total billings expressions attribute
In addition to the GUI , MineSet operations ting mining terface . This capability users with easy access can be launched browsers . through allows developers to predefined allows a command submitline into provide that including web operations from other applications ,
Summary provides
MineSet data mining user interface marily fessional data analysts targeted an integrated analytical environment and good defaults with an intuitive for options . at business users while providing and system integrators and visual graphical It is priprothe abil
138
KDD 97 ity to fine tools either MineSet the analytical tune both through is built using a scalable the GUI or command and visualization line . client server the visualizations archion a performance needed while pushing for the data transto a server machine
The ability to run for good interactive computations and analytical mining for mining supports access large databases . the knowledge and preparation tecture . client the intensive formations is crucial
MineSet from data analysis integration tial and visualization to deployment . between to effective mining the different and fast , components thorough analysis . discovery through process iterative tight is essen
The
Acknowledgments We would one on the MineSet insight was still a hardware only this project to initiate company . team and Ross Bott who had like to thank everythe time when SGI at the
References and votes . subset
1 , l 34 . classifier .
Intelligence .
1997 . Option for the optimality selection . Artificial
( to appear ) . Wrappers
P . , and Pazzani , M . 1996 . Beyond conditions
G . ; and Smyth , to knowledge discovery : in Knowledge Discovery the MIT Press . indeDomingos , of the simple pendence : In Saitta , L . , ed . , Machine LearnBayesian ing : Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference , 105 112 . Morgan Kaufmann . Duda , R . , and Hart , P . 1973 . Pattern CZassijication and Scene Analysis . Wiley . Fayyad , U . M . ; Piatetsky Shapiro , P . 1996 . From data mining In Advances An overview . and Data Mining . AAAI Press chapter Kohavi , R . , and John , G . H . for feature decision Kohavi , R . , and Kunz , C . In Fisher , D . , ed . , Machine trees with majority Learning : Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference . Morgan Kaufmann deciKohavi , R . , and Li , C H sion In Mellish , C . S . , ed . , Proceedings of the 14th International Joint Conference 10711077 . Morgan Kaufmann . Kohavi , R . ; Sommerfield , D . ; and Dougherty , Data mining brary 234 245 . http://wwnsgicom/Technology/mlc Mitchell , T . M . 1997 . Machine Learning . McGrawHill . Quinlan , Learning . San Mateo , California : Morgan Kaufmann . Srikand , R . , and Agrawal , R . 1995 . Mining alized association International Conference on Ve y Large Databases .
J . 1996 . liin C I ! . In Tools with ArtificiaE Intelligence , generIn Proceedings of the 21st
J . R . 1993 . C4.5 : Programs for Machine
1995 . Oblivious
IEEE Computer on Artificial using MfX++ :
Society Press . trees , graphs ,
Intelligence ,
A machine
Publishers , top down pruning . learning rules .
Inc . and
