Navigation Leads Selection Considering
Navigational Value of Keywords
Robert Moro
Maria Bielikova
Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies ,
Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies ,
Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava
Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava
Ilkovičova 2 , 842 16 Bratislava , Slovakia
Ilkovičova 2 , 842 16 Bratislava , Slovakia robertmoro@stubask mariabielikova@stubask
ABSTRACT Searching a vast information space such as the Web presents a challenging task and even more so , if the domain is unknown and the character of the task is thus exploratory in its nature . We have proposed a method of exploratory navigation based on navigation leads , ie terms that help users to filter the information space of a digital library . In this paper , we focus on the selection of the leads considering their navigational value . We employ clustering based on topic modeling using LDA ( Latent Dirichlet Allocation ) . We present results of a preliminary evaluation on the Annota dataset containing more than 50,000 research papers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/ Hypermedia – navigation , user issues . H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – information filtering .
Keywords Navigation ; navigational value ; topic modeling ; digital libraries .
1 . INTRODUCTION Whether researchers want to get acquainted with a new domain or want to find state of the art approaches pertinent to their area of research , they usually conduct searches in a digital library that can be viewed as cognitive traveling in this space [ 6 ] . Their goal is not to find specific facts , but to learn about the given domain . The term exploratory search was coined for this type of searches [ 5 ] .
In order to support exploration and sense making , we have proposed a method of exploratory navigation using the navigation leads . We define navigation terms ( automatically ) extracted from the documents present in the information space . When users choose to follow a navigation lead , the documents are filtered so that only those related to the selected lead are retrieved . The leads are visualized directly in a document ’s summary ( or abstract ) or underneath it . leads as important
This way , the proposed navigational approach emulates the browsing behavior which allows the users to investigate the results and follow the links in the text . It also supports the idea of navigation aided retrieval as defined in [ 7 ] by understanding the search results as mere starting points for further exploration .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) .
WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742764
It is as an alternative to a tag cloud navigation approach whose navigability was explored in [ 3 ] . In contrary to a tag cloud , the navigation leads by being placed directly in the text , do not force the users to split their attention , which could otherwise lead to higher cognitive load of the users as shown in [ 2 ] .
2 . SELECTION OF NAVIGATION LEADS For the terms to be selected as navigation leads , they should be relevant for the document in which they are identified ; we denote this as document relevancy RD . At the same time , they should reflect the information subspace that is covered by the lead , ie , the size of the subspace , its relevancy for the user ( his current query ) as well as how the term represents the subspace ; we denote this as navigational value NV of the term .
Thus , the overall relevancy of the term t ( a lead candidate ) for a document d is computed as a product of the term ’s relevancy for the document and its navigational value :
( 1 )
In order to compute the document relevancy RD , we can use any method of keyword extraction and weighing ( eg TF IDF ) . However , we do not consider only the texts of the documents , but also their associated metadata , such as user added tags and keywords added by the authors ( which are usually available in the domain of digital libraries of research papers ) .
When computing the navigational value of a term , we firstly identify the subspace behind the term . For this purpose , we propose to employ clustering ; thus , the subspace is represented by a cluster that the document , for which we identify the leads , belongs to . We employ LDA ( Latent Dirichlet Allocation ) [ 1 ] for the clustering : each identified topic represents a cluster of documents , each document is represented as a probability distribution of topics ( ie the document belongs to multiple clusters with some probability ) and each topic is in turn represented as a probability distribution of terms . Overall , the navigational value of a term is computed as follows :
( 2 ) where C is a set of all cluster assignments for the current document d , RC is a relevancy of the term t for the cluster c , S is a function of size of the cluster c that penalizes too large or too small clusters and RU is a relevancy of the documents in the cluster c for the current user u ( his query ) . The relevancy RC of the term t for the cluster c is computed as a product of the probability of the cluster ( topic ) assignment for the document d and the probability ( relevancy ) of the term for that cluster :
),(),(),(dtNVdtRdtRDCcUCcRcScdtRdtNV)()(),,(),(79
( 3 )
Thus , the idea is that by using the proposed method , the users explore the topics depth first as opposed to width first ; however , by considering also clusters ( topics ) associated with the document with lower relevancy , the method leaves space also for exploring the related ( less relevant ) topics .
3 . EVALUATION AND DISCUSSION In the first phase , we focused on the suitability of the chosen clustering approach using LDA for the identification of the information subspace that is represented by the navigational value of a term . We experimented with the data from the web based bookmarking system Annota ( annotafiitstubask ) The dataset is publicly available for research purposes [ 4 ] ; it contains more than 50,000 research papers from the domain of informatics , 140,000 author added keywords and 3,500 user added tags .
The goal of the experiment was to find out which keywords are the best for the clustering of the documents , as well as to assess the optimal number of the topics ( clusters ) . We compared the results of LDA for the keywords from four different sources : the keywords ( terms ) extracted from the abstracts of the documents , the keywords extracted from the whole content of the documents , the keywords added by the authors of the documents and those added by the users as tags .
We used a measure of perplexity on a held out test set to compare the results ; lower perplexity values indicate better generalization performance of the trained model [ 1 ] . The best performance was achieved by the keywords extracted from the whole content of a document followed by the user added tags ( see Fig 1 ) . The worst performance was achieved by the author added keywords ( not in the figure because the values would be off the scale ) .
Table 1 shows two topics ( represented by the five most relevant words ) identified when using papers’ abstracts and a combination of keywords extracted from the whole content and user added tags . We can see that the former contains more general terms , some of which are actually domain specific stop words ( eg system , user ) . On the other hand , the latter gives more sensible output and manages ( eg recommendation and collaborative filtering , etc ) identify certain to relations
The results of the preliminary evaluation suggest that the clustering approach can be used to assess the navigational value of the terms . Its consideration when computing the relevancy of a term presents the main contribution of the proposed approach as well as the fact that it combines the depth first navigation with wider exploration by considering also less relevant topics ( clusters ) associated with the documents . We plan to evaluate the method of the leads selection by a quantitative user study assessing the usefulness of the proposed exploratory navigation approach for sense making in the researcher novice scenario .
Table 1 . Example of identified topics .
Abstracts
Content + Tags
Topic #1
Topic #2
Topic #1
Topic #2 recommendation , user , system , social , item model , system , software , use , development recommender system , collaborative filtering , adult , person , recommend social network , semantic web , ontology , social media , linked data
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was partially supported by grants No . VG 1/0646/15 , No . KEGA 009STU 4/2014 , and it was created with the support of the Research and Development Operational Programme for the project “ University Science Park of STU Bratislava ” , ITMS 26240220084 , co funded by the European Regional Development Fund .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Blei , DM , Ng , AY , Jordan , MI 2003 . Latent Dirichlet
Allocation . J . of Machine Learn . Research . 3 , 4 5 , 993–1022 .
[ 2 ] Ginns , P . 2006 . Integrating information : A meta analysis of the spatial contiguity and temporal contiguity effects . Learning and Instruction . 16 , 6 , 511 525 .
[ 3 ] Helic , D . , Trattner , C . , Strohmaier , M . , Andrews , K . 2011 . Are tag clouds useful for navigation ? A network theoretic analysis . Int . J . of Social Computing and Cyber Physical Systems . 1 , 33 55 .
[ 4 ] Holub , M . , Moro , R . , Sevcech , J . , Liptak , M . , Bielikova , M .
2014 . Annota : Towards enriching scientific publications with semantics and user annotations . D Lib Magazine . 20 , 11/12 .
[ 5 ] Marchionini , G . 2006 . Exploratory search : From finding to understanding . Communications of the ACM . 49 , 41 46 .
Figure 1 . Comparison of perplexity values for different number of topics and different sources of keywords .
However , the perplexity score does not necessarily mean that the model is better from the perspective of human judgment ; therefore , we also inspected the identified topics manually .
[ 6 ] Návrat , P . 2012 . Cognitive traveling in digital space : from keyword search through exploratory information seeking . Central European J . of Computer Science , 2 , 3 , 170 182 .
[ 7 ] Pandit , S . and Olston , C . 2007 . Navigation aided retrieval . In
WWW '07 : Proc . of the 16th Int . Conf . on World Wide Web . ACM Press , 391–400 .
)|()|(),,(ctPcdPcdtRC80
