Aligning Multi Cultural Knowledge Taxonomies by Combinatorial Optimization
Natalia Prytkova Max Planck Institut für
Informatik
Saarbrücken , Germany natalia@mpi infmpgde
Marc Spaniol Université de Caen Basse Normandie Caen Cedex , France marcspaniol@unicaenfr
Gerhard Weikum Max Planck Institut für
Informatik
Saarbrücken , Germany weikum@mpi infmpgde
ABSTRACT Large collections of digital knowledge have become valuable assets for search and recommendation applications . The taxonomic type systems of such knowledge bases are often highly heterogeneous , as they reflect different cultures , languages , and intentions of usage . We present a novel method to the problem of multi cultural knowledge alignment , which maps each node of a source taxonomy onto a ranked list of most suitable nodes in the target taxonomy . We model this task as combinatorial optimization problems , using integer linear programming and quadratic programming . The quality of the computed alignments is evaluated , using large heterogeneous taxonomies about book categories . Categories and Subject Descriptors H10 [ Information Systems ] : Models and Principles Keywords Multicultural Knowledge Taxonomies ; Alignment Methods ; Integer Linear Programming ; Quadratic Programming
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Large knowledge bases ( KB ’s ) have gained much attention , as they are powering Internet and enterprise search . Major success stories include knowledge graphs at Google , Microsoft , Walmart , Bloomberg and others , as well as academic projects such as DBpedia , NELL , YAGO , etc . A crucial backbone for proper interpretation of this rich knowledge are taxonomies : tree or DAG shaped hierarchies of semantic types or thematic topics to which entities are assigned . In addition to these KB ’s in a strict sense , there are numerous knowledge collections , eg , product catalogs such as amazon.com , digital libraries such as the US Library of Congress or the German National Library , Wikipedia editions , specialized online communities on health issues , music , etc .
Together all this constitutes a “ knowledge habitat ” of complementary information from different domains , cultures , and languages . Therefore , there is an inherent need to “ translate ” the contents from one taxonomic structure into another . However , making a transition from a category in one taxonomy to the most relevant counterpart(s ) in another is not a trivial task .
For example , category Kinder & Jugendliteratur in amazon.de ( en . Children & Youth Literature ) has two relevant counterparts in amazon.com – Children ’s Books and Teen & Young Adult . Neither a translation tool is able to resolve the semantic equivalence of the categories nor can the topological comparison of taxonomic trees accomplish this . 2 . BASIC METHOD
For taxonomies K1 and K2 , we compute a baseline alignment in two steps , harnessing the category system of the English Wikipedia as an intermediate taxonomy : 1 . Compute semantic labels for all nodes i and j of K1 and K2 , respectively , via mappings to the Wikipedia taxonomy , using either the overlap of instances of i and j or the string similarity of i and j to the names of Wikipedia categories .
2 . Generate candidate mappings between K1 and K2 by considering all pairs i , j that share semantic labels .
3 . ADVANCED METHODS The basic alignment maps each source category i ∈ K1 to a set of candidate targets j1 , j2 ∈ K2 in isolation and it does not consider the correlation between the candidates . We model a correlation aware mapping as a combinatorial optimization problem . For each pair of categories i ∈ K1 and j ∈ K2 , which share at least one semantic label , we create a binary variable Ai,j . Ai,j is set to 1 if categories i and j are aligned in the current solution . Otherwise , it is 0 .
We consider two optimization models : i ) a model with hard constraints , using integer linear programming ( ILP ) , and ii ) a model with soft constraints , using quadratic programming ( QP ) . Both of these can be solved by standard tools like Gurobi ; our contribution is the novel way of modeling . 4 . HARD CONSTRAINTS IN ILP
The goal is to find an alignment with the maximal weight , which is expressed as the following objective function : max i∈K1,j∈K2 w(i , j ) · Ai,j
( 1 ) where w(i , j ) is the weight of alignment between i and j based on shared semantic labels .
93 This objective is subject to the following constraints that ensure the coherence of the target candidates by eliminating non correlated candidates .
Ai,j + Ai,k ≤ 1 if corr(j , k ) ≤ 0 Ai,j + Au,j ≤ 1 if corr(i , u ) ≤ 0
( 2 ) where corr(x , y ) is the Pearson ’s correlation coefficient between entity vectors of the categories . Entity vectors capture the occurrence frequency of entities in categories .
In theory , the number of constraints is cubic . However , in practice their number is much smaller since ( a ) the number of A variables is limited to those pairs which are connected via an intermediate category and ( b ) constraints are added only for the non correlating target pairs . For example , the model for the amazon.de → amazon.com case has 107 constraints , whereas in theory it should have had about 7×1011 . 5 . SOFT CONSTRAINTS IN QP
Forcing all candidate targets to be positively correlated may be too aggressive . Instead , we can relax the anticorrelation constraint and define a “ soft ” variant by a reward term in the objective function of the combinatorial optimization .
For source category i and candidate targets j1 , j2 the reward is the pairwise correlation between all target categories . We denote this by corrK2 : corrK2 = corr(j , k ) · Ai,j · Ai,k
( 3 ) i∈K1 j∈K2 k∈K2
Analogously , we can define the reward for pairwise correlation of the source categories that would be aligned with the same target . We denote this as corrK1 .
We extend the objective function , beyond merely maximizing the alignment weight , by maximizing the sum of the alignment weight and the two reward terms . The objective function of this model becomes : w(i , j ) · Ai,j + corrK1 + corrK2 ]
( 4 ) max[ i∈K1,j∈K2
Note that the reward terms have a product of decision variables , resulting in a quadratic optimization model . amazon.de → amazon.com shelfari.com → dnb.de baseline ILP QP
0.78 ± 0.08 0.48 ± 0.10 0.81 ± 0.08
0.85 ± 0.06 1.00 ± 0.00 0.93 ± 0.05
Table 1 : Experimental results : MRR values
6 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
To evaluate the quality of the alignments computed by our methods , we performed experiments with different taxonomies and human judges for assessment . We use four taxonomies : • amazon.com and amazon.de English and German product catalogs , which are independent of each other and have different category systems ( for English : 5,846 categories , 28,754 authors , 1,724,943 books ; for German : 8,293 categories , 28,360 authors , 933,779 books ) ;
• shelfari.com community created category system of books
( 12,803 categories , 559,877 authors , 1,159,897 books )
• dnb.de categorization of the books in the German National Library ( 910 categories , 421,896 authors , 751,346 books ) .
In all of these , the entities of interest are books and authors . As intermediate taxonomies we use the English and German Wikipedia editions with their categories as semantic labels . Since there is no ground truth to compare with , we manually evaluated the quality of the generated alignments for a randomly generated sample of 100 source categories , for each of the taxonomy pairs . Two judges annotated each pair of categories from the alignment output of each method as wrong or correct . For each source category we allowed at most one target category to be labelled as correct .
Experimental results are given in Table 1 . We report the mean reciprocal rank ( MRR ) of the correct target in the candidate list .
The baseline performs surprisingly well . ILP is superior to the baseline on one of the two presented cases . QP is the overall winner with very good results on MRR in both test cases . QP treats the correlations between categories in a more elegant way than ILP . If an erroneous target is assigned to a source , then by hard constraints , all possibly matching target are removed from the candidate list . This explains , why ILP does not perform well in one of the use cases . QP relaxes the constraints and is , thus , more flexible . As an example , QP computed a pair of equivalent cate gories Medizin/Innere Medizin in amazon.de and Medicine/ Internal Medicine in amazon.com , whereas the baseline and ILP solutions returned the wrong match Veterinary Medicine/Cardiology . 7 . RELATED WORK
Data integration ( [2 ] ) computes mappings between mediation schemas and local database schemas . This setting is quite different from aligning culturally diverse taxonomies . Ontology alignment ( [3 , 7 , 8] ) , deals with full fledged ontologies , whereas we concentrate on taxonomic structures . In our setting , the number of taxonomic categories is orders of magnitude larger than the number of schema elements that ontology alignment methods can handle . Multilingual data and knowledge alignment generates missing links across Wikipedia editions [ 4 ] , or interlinks Wikipedia infoboxes from different languages [ 6 ] . Our work addresses a much wider variety of taxonomies beyond Wikipedia . Catalog integration aims at finding similar categories in Internet directories ( [1 , 5] ) . In contrast to these works , we do not assume any direct mapping of instances in different taxonomies , reflecting the cultural diversity in our setting . 8 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] R . Agrawal , R . Srikant . On Integrating Catalogs . WWW
2001 .
[ 2 ] A . Doan , A . Halevy , Z . G . Ives . Principles of Data
Integration . 2012 .
[ 3 ] J . Euzenat , P . Shvaiko . Ontology Matching . 2013 . [ 4 ] J . G¨ob¨ol¨os Szabo et al . Cross Lingual Data Quality for
Knowledge Base Acceleration Across Wikipedia Editions . QDB Workshop 2012 .
[ 5 ] R . Ichise et al . Integrating Multiple Internet Directories by
Instance Based Learning . IJCAI 2003 .
[ 6 ] T . Nguyen et al . Multilingual Schema Matching for
Wikipedia Infoboxes . PVLDB 2011 .
[ 7 ] O . Udrea , L . Getoor , R . J . Miller . Leveraging Data and
Structure in Ontology Integration . SIGMOD 2007 .
[ 8 ] M . L . Wick et al . A Discriminative Approach to Ontology
Mapping . NTII 2008 .
94
