Towards Semantic Retrieval of Hashtags in Microblogs
Piyush Bansal
Somay Jain
Vasudeva Varma
International Institute of Information Technology
Hyderabad , India
{piyush.bansal@research , somayjain@students}iiitacin , vv@iiitacin
ABSTRACT On various microblogging platforms like Twitter , the users post short text messages ranging from news and information to thoughts and daily chatter . These messages often contain keywords called Hashtags , which are semanticosyntactic constructs that enable topical classification of the microblog posts . In this poster , we propose and evaluate a novel method of semantic enrichment of microblogs for a particular type of entity search – retrieving a ranked list of the top k hashtags relevant to a user ’s query Q . Such a list can help the users track posts of their general interest . We show that our technique significantly improved microblog retrieval as well . We tested our approach on the publicly available Stanford sentiment analysis tweet corpus . We observed an improvement of more than 10 % in NDCG for microblog retrieval task , and around 11 % in mean average precision for hashtag retrieval task .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Microblogging services enable communication at a massive scale . Twitter , one of the most popular microblogging services reportedly has 284 monthly active users , who post around 500 million short text posts ( limited to 140 characters ) called “ tweets ” everyday . Often users include keywords prefixed with ‘#’ , called hashtags to indicate and organize the contextual meanings of their tweets . Hence , to retrieve information related to a user ’s interest , for instance , “ Rock concerts ” , it’d be very helpful to the user if they can be suggested a list of hashtags which are commonly used in relation to “ Rock concerts ” . By tracking these hashtags , a user can gain information about rock concerts via the posted tweets . However , it ’s not possible for the user to manually figure out all the hashtags that are used across Twitter , relevant to their interest . In this poster , we address this problem and present a system ( publicly accessible at http://bit.ly/SemanticHashtagRetrieval ) that takes a query Q from the user and returns a ranked list of hashtags most relevant to Q .
In the past , microblog retrieval has been studied in vari
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742717
Query Rock Music TV Shows Space search
Re
Baseline #music #rock #tv #chuck #space #research #nasa #space
Our Approach #hardrock #progrock #tvseries #addictivetvshows
Table 1 : Retreived hashtags for various queries
Tweet Text Excluding Hashtags ( fT T ) : string
Hashtags(fH ) : keyword
Segmented Hashtags(fSH ) : keyword
Lead paragraph of Wikipedia linked entities in
Segmented Hashtags ( fLSH ) : string
Lead paragraph of Wikipedia linked entities in Tweet
Text ( fLT T ) : string
Table 2 : Semantically Enriched Microblog Document ( SEMD ) Structure ous contexts : Sakaki et al . [ 5 ] exploit the real time nature of tweets to discover events . TweetMotif [ 4 ] presents an exploratory search interface to deal with microblog retrieval , trying to summarize topics by analyzing co occurrence patterns . More recently , Efron et al . [ 3 ] have studied hashtag retrieval from a query expansion point of view . However , almost all these retrieval approaches are strictly term based , which are sensitive to polysemy , and term use variation . In this poster , we propose “ Semantically Enriched Microblog Document ( SEMD ) ” structure , which enables semantic retrieval of hashtags and microblog posts , trying to overcome these limitations to a greater extent . Table 1 shows the top two hashtags retrieved for a small subset of queries .
2 . SEMANTIC ENRICHMENT
Traditionally most of the microblog IR has either ignored hashtags for analysis , or has treated them as single words . However , that might not be true for most of the hashtags #WWW2015Firenze refers to “ WWW 2015 Firenze ” . Recent work by Bansal et al . [ 1 ] presents a machine learning based approach to segment the hashtags and link the entities in hashtags to Wikipedia . This allows to extract latent semantic information about hashtags . It ’s worth noting here that their proposed approach also performs entity linking on the rest of the tweet text . We follow a similar approach with a few modifications to reduce latency and ensure high throughput , which is critical for a real time search engine such as Twitter . Notably , we make the following modifications –
1 . Unlike Bansal et al . [ 1 ] , we replace Microsoft Web N
7 Gram Services1 to compute n gram word probabilities with in memory Yahoo! Webscope N gram dataset2 .
2 . We pick only top three features Unigram score , Bigram score , and Relatedness score , out of the originally proposed five features in [ 1 ] . This is motivated by the feature contribution results as reported in [ 1 ] . It ’s interesting to note that the features that contribute the most are less computation intensive .
These modifications help us to build a system capable of extracting latent semantic information from hashtags as well as the tweet text .
Semantically Enriched Microblog Document : We pro pose a virtual document structure that is enriched with semantic information obtained as described in the above section . The proposed document has 5 fields as can be seen in Table 2 . We use Whoosh3 library ’s BM25F implementation to retrieve microblogs most relevant to a given query Q . BM25F associates weight to each document field inversely proportional to it ’s length . Hence , shorter fields like fT T , fH and fSH have more weight in retrieval process . Our premise is that these fields have greater importance than fLT T and fLSH , since hashtags tend to be the gist of the tweet .
3 . RETRIEVAL PROCEDURE
For a given user query Q , we obtain a list of top 500 microblogs ranked by their relevance according to SEMD structure . In order to retrieve most relevant hashtags , we propose and experiment with a few hashtag ranking approaches
1 . GlobalRank ( GR ) , where the hashtags in top 500 retrieved microblogs were ranked on the basis of their frequency in the overall corpus .
2 . RetrievedHashtagRank ( RHR ) , where the hashtags in top 500 retrieved microblogs were ranked on the basis of their frequency in top 500 microblogs .
3 . TF IDFRank ( TFIDFR ) , where we iteratively refine the quality of hashtags retrieved , while boosting the recall . We used TF IDF weights for pseudo relevance feedback .
4 . KLDivergenceRank ( KLDR ) , where we use KL Diver gence for blind feedback .
We observed that KLDR performed significantly better than the other proposed approaches . A detailed comparative analysis is present in Table 3 .
4 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
Dataset : We used Stanford Sentiment Analysis tweet corpus4 for testing our approach . The dataset consists of 1.6 million tweets collected between April 6 , 2009 and June 25 , 2009 .
Experiments : We perform our evaluation for two tasks 1 . Hashtag Retrieval , and 2 . Microblog Retrieval . 5 experienced Twitter users were explained the problem statements . Subsequently , they were asked to suggest 10 queries each , relevant to the given tasks , hence obtaining a list of total 50 queries . We define the baseline as BM25F search conducted on original microblog posts . The users were asked to search for the 50 queries on our search system , ranking each result on a 5 point Likert scale . Our evaluation interface presented the results from baseline , as well as from 1http://weblmresearchmicrosoftcom 2http://webscopesandboxyahoocom 3https://pypipythonorg/pypi/Whoosh 4http://csstanfordedu/people/alecmgo/ trainingandtestdata.zip
Baseline
Our Approach
Ranking Model MAP MRR NDCG MAP MRR NDCG 0.591 0.670 0.750 0.831
0.392 0.435 TFIDFR 0.475 KLDR 0.567
0.686 0.698 0.713 0.759
0.55 0.572 0.691 0.794
0.557 0.577 0.687 0.689
0.451 0.499 0.569 0.674
GR RHR
Table 3 : Comparative results for hashtag retrieval
Baseline
Our Approach
Rel . Recall MAP MRR NDCG 0.797 0.898
0.850 0.886
0.761 0.815
NA 0.845
Table 4 : Comparative results for microblog retrieval the proposed SEMD search engine . The search results were anonymized , and randomized for each query so as to prevent cognitive bias caused by learning effects between multiple queries . For both the tasks , we presented the user with top 10 results relevant to the user query Q .
Results and Analysis : We report Mean Average Precision ( MAP ) , Mean Reciprocal Rank ( MRR ) and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) for both the tasks in Tables 3 and 4 respectively . Our definition of these metrics is same as proposed by Croft et al . [ 2 ] . MRR doesn’t vary much between the different retrieval approaches , since an acceptable result ( Likert scale score >=4 ) was observed in the first few results for almost all the retrieval approaches . However , other measures like NDCG , and MAP show encouraging improvement over the baseline and [ 3 ] . It ’s important to note here that these improvements were observed to be statistically significant ( p < 005 )
5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We have presented and evaluated a semantic search system in context of hashtag and microblog retrieval . We demonstrate how our approach is better than the existing approaches by detailed experiments . In the future , we’d experiment by enriching microblog posts with additional semantic information . This would include data mined from external links present in the microblog posts , author information and location et cetera .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Bansal , R . Bansal , and V . Varma . Towards deep semantic analysis of hashtags . In Advances in Information Retrieval . Springer , 2015 .
[ 2 ] B . Croft , D . Metzler , and T . Strohman . Search
Engines : Information Retrieval in Practice . Addison Wesley Publishing Company , 2009 .
[ 3 ] M . Efron . Hashtag retrieval in a microblogging environment . In Proceedings of the 33rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , 2010 .
[ 4 ] B . O’Connor , M . Krieger , and D . Ahn . Tweetmotif :
Exploratory search and topic summarization for twitter , 2010 .
[ 5 ] T . Sakaki , M . Okazaki , and Y . Matsuo . Earthquake shakes twitter users : Real time event detection by social sensors . In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on World Wide Web , 2010 .
8
