Exploring Bibliographies for Research related Tasks
Angelo Di Iorio
Department of Computer Science and Engineering , University of Bologna , Italy diiorio@csuniboit Francesco Poggi
Department of Computer Science and Engineering , University of Bologna , Italy fpoggi@csuniboit
Raffaele Giannella
Department of Computer Science and Engineering , University of Bologna , Italy raffaelegiannella@studiouniboit
Fabio Vitali
Department of Computer Science and Engineering , University of Bologna , Italy fabio@csuniboit
ABSTRACT Bibliographies are fundamental tools for research communities . Besides the obvious uses as connection to previous research , citations are also widely used for evaluation purposes : the productivity of researchers , departments and universities is increasingly measured by counting their citations . Unfortunately , citations counters are just rough indicators : a deeper knowledge of individual citations – where , when , by whom and why – improves research evaluation tasks and supports researchers in their daily activity . Yet , such information is mostly hidden within repositories of scholarly papers and is still difficult to find , navigate and make use of .
In this paper , we present a novel tool for exploring scientific articles through their citations . The environment is built on top of a rich citation network , encoded as a LOD , and includes a user friendly interface to access , filter and highlight information about bibliographic data .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I72 [ Document And Text Processing ] : Document Preparation—Markup languages ; I72 [ Document And Text Processing ] : Document Capture—Document analysis
Keywords XML , descriptive markup , document visualisation , pattern recognition , structural patterns
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Researchers spend a lot of time in exploring bibliographies . When writing a paper , when exploring a new research area , when evaluating papers , they use bibliographies for finding related works . Starting from one paper , researchers are interested in the papers cited by that one and those it cites . It is not a case that digital libraries of scholarly papers such as ACM DL , IEEE Xplore DL show bibliographic references and incoming citations in separate lists , that can be often explored even if the full text of the paper is not available . Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742018
Digital libraries show bibliographies are ’monolithic’ units , so that users cannot process bibliographic items separately . Consider , for instance , the case of a user checking how outdated the references of a paper are . There is no other choice than inspecting the references and manually filtering outdated ones . Similarly , counting self citations requires users to manually inspect the reference list .
Even if performing these task is not a huge issue on a single paper , it ’s still time consuming and difficult when dealing with several papers . The aggravating factor is that , often , these tasks have to be completed under pressure : who can say that he had never written a review right before the ( extended ) deadline ? Or made an initial selection of papers in a few hours ? Or even arranged a related works section in short time ?
Our research aims at supporting researchers in these daily tasks , making it easy to access data that otherwise are hard to find , inspect and filter .
The problem can be broken in two parts . First , we need rich data about papers ( eg author list , publication year , venue , etc . ) and citation networks ( eg about incoming/outgoing citations ) . For instance , it is useful and challenging to capture the original citation context defined in [ 10 ] as the sentence of the original paper where a particular work was cited and the citation function , defined in [ 13 ] as the reason why a paper is cited . Having such data can be very helpful to understand the nature of citations and to give them more or less importance .
The second issue consists in providing users with intuitive interfaces to read and make sense of these data for instance , to easily filter data , to navigate paper collections , to explore citations , along with their functions and contexts .
This paper focuses on the second aspect , though some discussion is provided about the underlying data model and source . In fact , we briefly introduce the Semantic Lancet Triplestore ( SLT ) , a LOD dataset including detailed information about citations , and then we go into details of BEX , a novel environment for accessing these data .
The structure of the paper is as follows . Section 2 describes some related works ; some issues in daily tasks on citations , along with possible improvements , are investigated in Section 3 ; Section 4 gives some background on the Semantic Lancet Triplestore ; BEX is introduced in Section 5 ; the evaluation of the current prototype and conclusions are presented in Section 6 .
1001 2 . RELATED WORKS
A large variety of systems support the exploration of scholarly data , some of them providing an interface to a specific repository of bibliographic information , others integrating multiple data sources to provide access to a richer set of data and navigation functionalities . Some well known platforms are Google Scholar1 , DBLP2 and CiteSeerX3 . These systems are not designed to support sense making tasks in the academic domain . On the contrary , Microsoft Academic Search4 provides a variety of visualizations , including coauthorship graphs , publication trends , and co authorship paths between authors . Paperlens [ 5 ] is another visual analytics tool that provides multiple coordinated views in order to reveal trends , support the analysis of connections , and describe activities throughout conference communities . Action Science Explorer [ 3 ] leverages statistics , citation text extraction , natural language summarization , and network visualization to see citation patterns and identify clusters . There is an ever increasing interest in making bibliographic data also available as Linked Open Data ( LOD ) . The current landscape is fragmented but a lot of information is available , through SPARQL end points . For instance , DBLP++5 makes available RDF data corresponding to those collected in DBLP . The dataset does not contain any data about citations , though the quality of data about papers and authors is very high . The JISC OpenCitation corpus [ 12 ] provides freely available data about ( more than three million ) papers published in Open Access PubMed Central6 , including a lot of information about citations . The dataset also contains abstracts and data about authors , though these are not available for all papers . It is very well structured and high quality but currently not active .
SemanticWeb Dog Food [ 6 ] contains semantic data about Semantic Web conferences and workshops . The dataset contains bibliographic records about papers and authors , including their affiliations . There are no data about abstracts , classification and citations . Since the corpus is composed of different datasets , created and uploaded separately for each conference , the overall quality is not homogeneous .
The BioTea project [ 4 ] deserves a special mention . Its goal is to make the biomedical literature available as RDF , taking papers again from PubMed Central . The dataset is very complete . One of the peculiar aspects is that BioTea gives a lot of relevance to the content , providing abstracts for all papers and expressing in RDF some structural components such as sections , paragraphs , etc . There are no citation contexts and functions but the dataset could be easily extended in that direction .
3 . RESEARCH RELATED TASKS ON
BIBLIOGRAPHIES
The great amount of data available on citations and , in particular , the possibility of navigating papers through citations are powerful tools in the hand of the researchers . Researcher performs different tasks on citations according to the role they play . The researcher is first of all a reader , 1http://scholargooglecom 2http://wwwinformatikuni trierde/~ley/db/ 3http://citeseerxistpsuedu/ 4http://academicresearchmicrosoftcom/ 5http://dblpl3sde/dblp++php 6http://wwwncbinlmnihgov/pmc/tools/openftlist/ who reads articles and navigate them through citations . The process of finding relevant works is very common when writing new papers and project proposals : indeed , a researcher is also an author . The research community also relies on peer review processes , which require researchers to also act as reviewers or editors . When reviewing papers , a researcher uses citations and checks , for instance , the number of selfcitations or the publication year of the cited papers . Citations are also increasingly used for evaluation purposes . Researchers are then asked to be part of academic boards in charge of evaluating research products . Our analysis covers such a scenario with a specific role : evaluator . Researchers are involved in organizing scientific events , thus we added the role of event organizer .
In this section we describe some of the most common tasks that researchers perform on bibliographies when playing all these roles . There are many other tasks characterizing each of these roles but they are left out of discussion , since they are not specific on bibliographies .
Table 1 summarises our analysis . The discussion uses the well known terminology of [ 8 ] : the term goal is used to indicate a final objective a user wishes to achieve , a task is a sequence of one or more activities the user thinks are required to achieve a goal . Each task is specific of a peculiar user role . Note also that we did not decompose each task in hierarchical subtasks , for the sake of simplicity .
Task 1 consists in building or updating a bibliography on a given topic . A common approach is to use keyword based search tools , scan the list of returned papers and filter potentially relevant ones . Researchers might read abstracts to have a clearer idea of each paper . Further candidates are often searched by analysing citation networks : starting from a list of relevant papers , incoming and outgoing citations are scanned and , in turn , new candidates are analysed and , if relevant , added to the list . The criteria used to discern among papers may vary a lot : considering the total number of citations may be a suitable indicator to identify seminal papers , whereas it may fail when searching for recent developments or cutting edge works . In the second case , other criteria such as the publication date are more convenient . In all cases , the researchers have to inspect the list of citations and to manually find relevant information .
Tasks 2 is performed by researchers as reviewers . To evaluate if a paper is up to date , they inspect the bibliography and look at the publication year of each item . Furthermore they check if any relevant recent paper is not cited . These operations are still manual . One of the reasons is that , in almost all cases , papers under revision are PDFs and the bibliographic references cannot be processed as separate units . The same applies to Tasks 3 and 4 . The first one covers the analysis of self citations : in fact , the reviewers/editors check how many cited papers are written by the same authors ( or some of them ) . The editors/reviewers might also want to check the number of papers cited by a paper submitted to a journal and published in the same journal . That might be an indicator of the suitability of that paper for that journal .
The evaluation of research works ( Task 5 ) and researchers ( Task 6 ) is often performed by counting the incoming citations to each research work and by aggregating them for further analysis . Thus , evaluators need to easily access information about the number of times each paper is cited and to know how those citations are distributed in time . One as
1002 Table 1 : Common tasks on bibliographies , for different classes of users . Role
No .
1
2
3
4
5
6
7 reader/author reviewer reviewer , editor reviewer , editor evaluator evaluator event organizer goal : evaluate if a paper is up to date goal : evaluate how much a work is self referential
Goal/Task goal : build/update a bibliography [ of recent papers ] on a given topic
• find papers on a given topic • navigate citation networks to find other interesting/relevant papers • check the publication year of the cited papers • check if relevant papers are missing in the bibliography • count self citations • read the abstract of a paper ( if possible , the whole paper ) , check the bibliography searching for cited • check how many times a paper is cited and how citations evolved • check how many times , when and why a candidate is cited • find authors of ( recent ) papers about topics relevant to the event papers published in the same venue , or others relevant to the journal topics goal : evaluate if a paper fits the scope of a journal/conference goal : evaluate the impact of a paper goal : evaluate the impact of a researcher goal : find potential participants pect that is still under estimated when evaluating citations is their nature . In fact , not all citations are equal : some are given just for information , some as necessary background , some refers to a work the citing paper is an extension of . It would be useful to store and be able to analyse citations together with the sentence to which they belong to ( citation context ) , or together with information about the reason why a paper is cited ( citationfunction ) . A time perspective is helpful here . For instance , we can expect that an important work is referenced for information or used as background for many years , but if it keep being extended , or some methods therein contained are used for a long time , it means it still plays an active and important role . To the best of our knowledge , none of the existing repositories of scholarly papers make such information available .
There is a further common task that researchers perform by exploring papers and citations : finding experts in a given topic or simply people who are interested in that topic . These people usually are searched among the authors of relevant papers — that , as discussed so far , are found by exploiting citations too . Such expert finding task might be useful , for instance , when searching for potential participants to a scientific events ( Task 7 ) .
4 . PUBLISHING AND EXPLORING DATA ON CITATIONS : SPAR AND SEMANTIC LANCET
Even though existing repositories make bibliographies available as separate units , the lists of references are treated as ‘monolithic’ units : the users can export citations and navigate to the cited/citing papers but they are not allowed to filter bibliographic references , or to show only some references , or to show detailed information about each reference . This is first of all a problem of usability due to the lack of specific functionalities . But it also depends on the way data are structured and made available . In fact , most of the existing repositories do not offer APIs to access data ( eg Google Scholar ) or offer partial APIs that do not cover all needed aspects ( eg ScienceDirect and Scopus ) .
• building a LOD on scholarly publications , that in• providing users with an intuitive interface to access , cludes rich information about papers and citation networks
Our approach to address these issues consists of two steps : explore and make use of these data
The paper is focused on the second aspect but we need some background about the underlying data source . Thus , here we present SPAR , the set of ontologies used in our system , and the Semantic Lancet Triplestore ( SLT ) , a SPARQL end point build on top of SPAR and used as backend . 4.1 SPAR and SLT
SPAR7 is a set of OWL ontologies that describe the most relevant aspects of the publishing process , with particular attention to scholarly publications [ 7 ] . We adopted some of them in our project . FaBiO describes the core metadata associated to scholarly articles ( eg , authors , title , DOI ) ; it is then used to create accurate and unambiguous representation of each paper . 7http://wwwsparontologiesnet
1003 The CiTO ontology8 introduces the cito:cites property to indicate that a given paper cites another one . The interesting aspect is that CiTO also defines a list of properties that specialise cito:cites and capture citation functions ( for instance , cito:extends , cito:usesMethodIn , cito:disagreesWith ) . Thus , users can deeply characterise citations , though this still remains a difficult task , with a very low agreement among humans [ 1 ] . The BiRO ontology ( BiRO)9 allows users to describe bibliographic references and their compilation into reference lists . This is a key aspect for our approach : the internal organisation of the references of a paper is fully captured , so that bibliographic items can be manipulated as separate units . The C4O ontology makes it possible to capture the citation context of each citation ; it also includes a mechanism for counting citations locally ( within an article ) or globally ( by means of particular platforms ) . These values can be used for evaluation purposes and to measure the impact of each paper , as discussed in Section 3 . More details about BiRO and C4O can be found in [ 2 ] .
The Semantic Lancet Triplestore ( SLT ) is a freely available LOD dataset built on top of these ontologies10 . SLT includes rich data about scholarly papers , that range from a large network of citations , to semantically enriched abstracts , from provenance data to time aware descriptions of the articles . The current dataset describes all papers published in the Journal of Web Semantics by Elsevier , though we are working to add data about articles of other journals . SLT contains bibliographic records and full details about citations , and is used as primary data source for our application called BEX .
5 . BEX : SUPPORTING RESEARCHERS IN
EXPLORING BIBLIOGRAPHIES
BEX11 is an interactive web based tool aimed at supporting the analysis , exploration and sense making process of document collections . The BEX design and the consequent user interaction are driven by Shneiderman ’s Information Seeking Mantra [ 11 ] : “ Overview first , zoom and filter , then details on demand ” .
The navigation starts with three search functionalities : in addition to the classical string search on author and title , the user can also search relevant papers according to their content . This search is performed by an external service . Other services , for instance based on full text search or other mining techniques , can be integrated with a few modifications to BEX .
We achieved good results by exploiting a service called Abstract Finder12 . It relies on FRED [ 9 ] and exploits the semantic information about concepts , events , roles and named entities contained in the paper abstracts and extracted from the text with NLP techniques . Thus , through BEX a researcher can write in the search box a tentative abstract for her/his paper to retrieve meaningful papers that match with it from a pure textual but also semantic point of view , as shown in Fig 1 .
8http://purl.org/spar/cito 9http://purl.org/spar/biro 10http://twoeelstcsuniboit:8181/control paneltpl 11http://eelstcsuniboit:8089/ 12http://wwwsemanticlanceteu/abstractfinder
The results are organized as a list of papers , ordered by default from the most recent to the oldest one . Through the sorting box at the top of the interface , the user can easily define custom criterion to order the results ( ie year , title , number of citations ) and the order type . For each returned paper , BEX shows a summary of basic information and a link to the paper official page on Elsevier ’s ScienceDirect .
In order to gather more information about a paper in the list , the user can open a sliding box showing the full abstract and data on citations . The information about the citations is organized in two parts : outgoing and incoming .
By clicking on the ” Show items ” button , the user can get access to the information about the outgoing citations , as shown in the central part of Fig 1 . BEX organizes the cited papers in a vertical list . For each paper BEX shows ( from left to right ) : the number of times in which the paper is referenced by the paper under examination , some general information about the paper , and a piechart summarizing the number and type of citations received from the focus paper . Moreover , abstract , citation functions and contexts are shown in popups windows .
In the incoming citation section , two counters show the number of global and internal citations received by the paper under examination . The term ’global’ here indicates citations for a paper as counted by external services ( Scopus ) ; the term ’internal’ indicates the citations given by papers described in our dataset ( published in the Journal of Web Semantics ) .
Further details about the citation functions of incoming internal citations are available . As shown in Fig 2 , this information is presented in a popup window organized in three parts : a pie chart gives an overview of the number and type of incoming citations ( top left ) , a column chart shows the distribution of the citation functions on a time axis ( top right ) , and details about the citation contexts are presented in the bottom . In the two charts at the top of the page , different colors are used to encode the function of each single citation , and citations with the same function are grouped together . Finally , the last component shows , for each paper citing the paper under focus , the list of the citation contexts .
Finally , BEX provides a rich list of filtering capabilities and ordering criteria that can used to focus on different aspects of the internal citation network . The filtering functionality , for instance , allows users to filter papers by year , by author and by citation function , optionally excluding selfcitations .
6 . DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
BEX was built to successfully carry out the tasks discussed in Section 3 . For instance , let us consider Task 1 , building/updating a bibliography on a specific topic . Once loaded , BEX directly shows the form to insert the topic to be analysed as a keyword list , a short description or a longer text . No further steps are required and this command is consistently available in the left sidebar . Since the candidate papers of a search are organized as a list of expandable items , users can easily read all abstracts by simply scrolling the main window . No further tab or window is opened and the reading process is direct . Note also that other services for searching relevant papers – for instance based on fulltext search – can be integrated with a few modifications to BEX .
1004 Figure 1 : The list of papers shown in BEX , with information about abstract and citations , and details about the outgoing citations .
Figure 2 : The popup window with information about the function of the incoming citations of a paper .
1005 For each paper in the list , BEX also shows its bibliography in the main panel rather than in a separate tab or modal window . This is helpful to quickly check other potential candidates . The incoming citations , on the other hand , are shown in a separate window . For each of them , BEX provides authorship data , publication year , global citations and abstract . The user can then check indirect references , ie , other potentially relevant papers , with minimal effort . Note that BEX is currently limited since only data about citations and papers of JWS are available . But this is a limitation of the dataset , not of the application . We are hard working to expand the dataset and to integrate it with other sources . Additionally , a breadcrumb toolbar tracks all papers accessed during the navigation , so that users can overcome disorientation by rolling back to a paper already visited , and a clickable list of the authors shows details of all the papers written by each author . The possibility of navigating papers of an author and contextually reading their abstracts is also useful to complete Task 7 .
Filters showing only the papers of a given author or published after a given year are particularly useful to perform Task 1 5 , since the user can enable the appropriate filters and the list of citations is automatically updated . Selfcitations deserve a special mention : BEX highlights them with a special icon in all lists , and not only when filtered . This information is constantly available and the users can make use of it it in all tasks .
There is a critical issue on Tasks 2 4 ( review process ) . BEX cannot be used directly when reviewing papers submitted as PDF , as semantically enriched data about citations are not available . On the other hand , there is lively discussion in the community about using alternative formats for submissions , for instance in RASH13 as proposed for the SAVE SD workshop , that could be automatically converted in semantic data processable by BEX14 . Bibliographies could also be extracted from PDF sources and enhanced with semantic data through automatic conversion processes .
The most interesting aspect of BEX with regard to Tasks 5 and 6 is the availability of citation functions and contexts . These make evident the origin and the actual impact of each citation . Such data are also useful for checking if the citation function is correct , since contexts and functions in SLT were extracted by automatic tools .
We plan to integrate bookmarks functionalities so that users can keep track of relevant information while navigating . Additionally , we are investigating further searching and filtering options . The need for these additional features have been highlighted by our preliminary analysis , but we plan to perform many more structured and complete tests on BEX , and to study how the tool is used by different classes of users .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ciancarini , P . , Di Iorio , A . , Nuzzolese , A . Peroni , S . ,
Vitali , F . ( 2014 ) . Evaluating citation functions in CiTO : cognitive issues . In Proceedings of the 11th Extended Semantic Web Conference ( ESWC 2014 ) , LNCS 8465 : 580–594 . Springer .
13http://csuniboit/save sd/rash/ 14As a matter of fact , this paper was submitted in RASH , including RDFa annotations about citations .
[ 2 ] Di Iorio , A . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , Peroni , S . , Shotton , D . , Vitali , F . ( 2014 ) . Describing bibliographic references in RDF . Proceedings of 4th Workshop on Semantic Publishing ( SePublica 2014 ) . http://ceur wsorg/Vol 1155/paper 05pdf
[ 3 ] Dunne , C . , Shneiderman , B . , Gove , R . , Klavans , J . ,
Dorr , B . ( 2012 ) . Rapid understanding of scientific paper collections : Integrating statistics , text analytics , and visualization . Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 63(12 ) , 2351 2369 .
[ 4 ] García Castro , L . , McLaughlin , C . , García Castro , A . ( 2013 ) . Biotea : RDFizing PubMed Central in support for the paper as an interface to the Web of Data . Journal of Biomedical Semantics , 5 ( Suppl1 ) : S5 .
[ 5 ] Lee , B . , Czerwinski , M . , Robertson , G . , Bederson , B . ( 2005 ) . Understanding research trends in conferences using PaperLens . In CHI’05 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems ( pp1969 1972 ) ACM .
[ 6 ] Muller , K . , Heath , T . , Handschuh , S . , Domingue , J .
( 2007 ) . Recipes for Semantic Web Dog Food : the ESWC and ISWC metadata projects . In Proceedings of the 6th International Semantic Web Conference and the 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC’07/ASWC’07 ) : 802–815 . Berlin,Germany : Springer .
[ 7 ] Peroni , S . ( 2014 ) . The Semantic Publishing and
Referencing Ontologies . In Semantic Web Technologies and Legal Scholarly Publishing , Law , Governance and Technology Series 15 : 121–193 . Springer .
[ 8 ] Preece , J . , Carey , T . , Rogers , Y . , Holland,S . , Sharp ,
H . Benyon,D . Human Computer Interaction . Ics Series . Addison Wesley Publishing Company , 1994 .
[ 9 ] Presutti , V . , Draicchio , F . , Gangemi , A . ( 2012 ) .
Knowledge extraction based on discourse representation theory and linguistic frames . In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management ( EKAW 2012 ) : 114–129 . Springer .
[ 10 ] Qazvinian , V . , Radev , D . ( 2010 ) . Identifying
Non explicit Citing Sentences for Citation based Summarization . In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL 10 ) : 555–564 .
[ 11 ] Shneiderman , B . ( 1996 ) . The Eyes Have It : A Task by
Data Type Taxonomy for Information Visualizations . In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages , pages 336 343,Washington . IEEE Computer Society Press , 1996 .
[ 12 ] Shotton , D . ( 2013 ) . Publishing : Open citations .
Nature , 502(7471 ) : 295–297 .
[ 13 ] Teufel , S . , Siddharthan , A . , Tidhar , D . ( 2006 ) . Automatic classification of citation function . In Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP 06 ) : 103–110 .
1006
