A Novel Agent Based Rumor Spreading Model in Twitter
Emilio Serrano
Universidad Politécnica de emilioserra@ditupmes
Madrid
Carlos A . Iglesias
Universidad Politécnica de
Madrid cif@ditupmes
Mercedes Garijo
Universidad Politécnica de
Madrid mga@ditupmes
ABSTRACT Viral marketing , marketing techniques that use pre existing social networks , has experienced a significant encouragement in the last years . In this scope , Twitter is the most studied social network in viral marketing and the rumor spread is a widely researched problem . This paper contributes with a ( 1 ) novel agent based social simulation model for rumors spread in Twitter . This model relies on the hypothesis that ( 2 ) when a user is recovered , this user will not influence his or her neighbors in the social network to recover . To support this hypothesis : ( 3 ) two Twitter rumor datasets are studied ; ( 4 ) a baseline model which does not include the hypothesis is revised , reproduced , and implemented ; ( 5 ) and a number of experiments are conducted comparing the real data with the two models results .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I.6 [ Simulation and Modeling ] : Model Validation and Analysis ; I.2 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Distributed Artificial Intelligence—Multiagent systems
Keywords Agent based Social Simulation , Agent based Model , Rumor Spreading Model , Information Diffusion Model , Social Networks , Twitter , Big Data
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Viral marketing , marketing techniques that use pre existing social networking services , has experienced a significant encouragement over the past few years because a number of reasons . Among others : the low cost of these campaigns ; traditional marketing techniques do no longer cause the desired effect ; and , people influence each other ’s decisions considerably [ 10 ] . Twitter is the most studied social network in viral marketing . Twitter allows researchers to study global phenomena from a quantitative point of view for the first time in humanity ’s history [ 4 ] . The main reason for this
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3469 3/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742466 is that , unlike the leading social network Facebook , users’ messages in Twitter are public by default .
Rumors are the basis for viral marketing [ 13 ] and , therefore , rumors diffusion is a topic widely studied . In this scope , the epidemiological modeling is the hegemonic research line to model the rumor spreading . The standard model in this line is the SIR model [ 9 ] . In SIR , the population is divided into several classes such as susceptible ( S ) , infected ( I ) , and recovered ( R ) individuals . Furthermore , these analytical models are usually formulated using differential equations since the transition rates from one class to another are mathematically expressed as derivatives . A different approach is the use of Agent Based Social Simulation ( ABSS ) .
ABSS combines computer simulation and social science by using a simple version of the agent metaphor to specify single components and interactions among them [ 17]1 . ABSS has become one of the most popular technologies to model and study complex adaptive systems such as emergency management [ 18 ] , intelligent environments [ 7 ] , and e commerce [ 19 ] . In the rumor case , ABSS allows researchers to understand how a piece of information spreads on a network and evaluate strategies to control its diffusions ; maximizing it in the case of advertisement or minimizing in the case of malicious rumors .
ABSS approaches for rumor spreading , unlike analytical models , allow the exploration of individual level theories of behavior which can be used to examine larger scale phenomenons [ 15 ] . For example , if a single Twitter user gives extensive information for an event while the remaining users post just one tweet ( as in Mendoza et al . ’s [ 12 ] work ) ; ABSS allows this special user to be modeled . The Big Data technologies make the transition from analytical models , which often require overly simplistic assumptions and are difficult to be compared to real world data [ 15 ] , to ABSS models a must .
This paper contributes with a ( 1 ) novel ABSS model for rumors spread in Twitter . This model relies on the hypothesis that ( 2 ) when a user is recovered ( the R of the popular SIR model ) , this user will not influence his or her neighbors in the social network to recover . To support this hypothesis : ( 3 ) two Twitter rumor datasets are studied ; ( 4 ) a baseline ABSS model which does not include the hypothesis is revised , reproduced , and implemented ; ( 5 ) and a number of experiments are conducted comparing the real data with the two models results .
1With some differences , ABSS can also be referred as agent based models ( ABM ) , multi agent based simulations ( MABS ) , or social simulation ( SocSim ) .
811 The paper outline is the following . After revising the related works in ABSS models for rumor spreading in section 2 , a baseline model is proposed in section 3 . Then , the Twitter data explored is presented in section 4 . This section also discusses the concept of recovery and how to model it . Section 5 presents a novel ABSS model for rumor spreading and section 6 experiments with this model and the baseline comparing them with the Twitter data . Finally , section 7 concludes and gives the future works .
2 . RELATED WORKS
Although there are a large number of works dealing with rumor spreading by analytical methods , the literature using agent based modeling is much more reduced . In a recent work , Weng et al . address meme propagations in Twitter . However , getting an accurate spread model is not the paper goal . Tripathy et al . [ 21 ] present a study and an evaluation of rumor like methods for combating the spread of rumors on social networks . They use variants of the independent cascade model [ 22 ] for rumor spreading . Liu and Chen [ 11 ] build an agent based rumor spread model using SIR as baseline and implemented in NetLogo [ 20 ] , a popular ABSS framework . This model is not founded on real data although the authors find out interesting conclusions with regard to the Twitter case using the simulation model . Seo et al . [ 16 ] present an over simplistic ABSS . More than the simulation , the contribution rests on the use of this model to evaluate a method to identify rumors and their sources . Yang et al . [ 23 ] employ ABSS to analyze the 2013 Associated Press hoax incident . The authors give three profiles for Twitter users ( broadcaster , acquaintances , and odd users ) ; probability density functions for each profile ; and a study of the effects of removing relevant nodes of the network in the information spread . The Twitter data this model is based on is not given . Gatti et al . [ 8 ] address the general information diffusion modeling instead of the rumor spreading . As in other works revised [ 23 ] , simulation is employed to find users with more impact on the information flow . None of these models consider the hypothesis this paper presents : when a user is “ infected ” ( the I in the SIR model ) and then recovered ( R ) ; these users may not affect their neighbors’ recovery .
3 . BASELINE APPROACH
This section revises Tripathy et al . ’s approach [ 21 ] for modeling the rumor spreading in Twitter . This model is based on the cascade model [ 22 ] and is one of the earliest ABSS rumor spread models proposed for the Twitter case . Besides , as in this paper , the authors criticize epidemic spread models such as SIS and SIR because , among others , anti rumors can be spread from person to person unlike vaccines for viruses which can only be administered to individuals .
In the revised model , Agents are Twitter users with a state property which can be : neutral ( initial state ) ; infected ( believe the rumor ) ; vaccinated ( believe the anti rumor before being infected ) ; or , cured ( believe the anti rumor after being infected ) . The basic agents’ behavior involves : ( 1 ) initializing a number of infected users ; ( 2 ) each infected user at time t tries to infect each of its uninfected neighbors with a given probability ( propInfect ) ; ( 3 ) after a given delay ( timeLag ) , a random infected node starts an anti rumor spreading to its neighbors , trying to cure or vaccinate them with a probability ( probAcceptDeny ) each time step t ; and , ( 4 ) cured and vaccinated users also try to cure or vaccinate their neighbors with a probability ( probAcceptDeny ) each time step t .
Concerning the environment , a synthetic network is employed . Barab´asi Albert ( BA ) scale free networks are the most popular option when modeling social networks [ 11 ] . Although the scale free nature of a large number of networks is still debated by the scientific community , social networks such as Twitter are widely claimed to be scalefree . In a nutshell , the creation of these networks is undertaken under the assumption that the probability a user u1 connects to another u2 depends on the number of connections that u2 already has . To give more information to reproduce this environment , this paper experiments with 1K nodes and a maximum of 10 links initially added per new node . More specifically , the Barab´asi Albert preferential attachment graph generator of the graph stream project has been employed2 .
A time step of an hour is assumed , and the output is the number of users endorsing the rumor ( with infected as state ) and the number of users denying it ( with vaccinated or cured as states ) . With the details given , the input parameters in the baseline approach are the following : random seed , number of users , maximum links per node ( for the BA network construction ) , initially infected users , probability of infecting , probability of accepting a denial , and time lag .
4 . TWITTER DATASET AND THE RECOV
ERY CONCEPT
The baseline model , reproduced and implemented in this paper , and the proposed spread model have been validated using two rumor datasets introduced by Qazvinian et al . [ 14 ] . The first dataset called “ obama ” includes tweets which spread misinformation that president Obama is Muslim . The second dataset called “ palin ” deals with Sarah Palin divorce rumors . Although the cited work includes other rumors , these were the topics with more tweets retrieved : 4975 for the obama dataset and 4423 for the palin dataset . Hence , they were the most useful for simulation purposes .
Qazvinian et al .
[ 14 ] not only retrieved tweets based on regular expressions , Obama & ( muslim|islam ) for the obama dataset and palin & divorce for the palin dataset , but also annotated manually these tweets . The possible labels for the dataset are : endorsers ( it spreads the rumor ) , denies the user refutes the rumor ) , questions ( the user questions the rumor credibility ) , neutral ( the tweet is about the rumor without endorsing or denying it ) , unrelated ( the tweet is not about the rumor ) , and undetermined ( when the annotator is undetermined ) . The mere existence of the “ undetermined ” label , used when a human annotator cannot decide , illustrates the challenging problem of automatically detecting if a tweet is a rumor or not which , although is out of the scope of this paper , is a hot research topic .
The explained datasets were provided in different formats . In this paper , their tweets have been : ( 1 ) retrieved again from the id when available by using the Twitter REST API [ 2 ] ( obama case ) ; ( 2 ) extended by retrieving retweets of the original tweets ( obama case ) ; ( 3 ) anonymized for their distribution obeying the Twitter terms of use [ 3 ] ( palin case ) ;
2GraphStream project : org/ http://graphstream project .
812 and , made available at this paper additional material website under a creative commons license [ 1 ] .
After studying Twitter data of these and other datasets , the authors found out that the “ recovery ” concept which most popular rumor spread model relies on is complex of being validated . The main reason is that when retrieving tweets about rumors ( or anti rumors ) in a specific topic , all the information for most of the users usually comes from just one tweet which says if the user is endorsing or denying the rumor . Therefore , even if the user has been “ cured ” of the rumor , there is not empirical evidence of it .
5 . A NOVEL SPREAD MODEL
The new model introduced in this paper modifies the baseline to include the idea of users who may know that a rumor is false but who do not spread anti rumors , ie tweets denying the rumors . As explained , the main reason for introducing this idea is that rumor information for a specific user is typically limited to just one tweet . Furthermore , psychologically , the infected users who make a mistake may not be as enthusiastic as the baseline model assumes about spreading their faults with anti rumors .
As a result , only vaccinated users ( the ones who have not been previously infected ) are allowed to spread anti rumors . Another idea included in the new model is that , independently of any time lag , a neutral node which has an infected neighbor can become a vaccinated user . This models the idea of a user who knew from any external information that the rumor was false . With this in mind , a probability of making a denier is included , ie turning a neutral user into a vaccinated user when spreading a rumor .
Thus , the agents’ behavior in the new model is : ( 1 ) initializing a number of infected users ; ( 2 ) each infected user at time t tries to infect each of its uninfected neighbors with a given probability ( propInfect ) ; ( 3 ) instead of infecting them , these neighbors may become vaccinated if they were neutral with a probability ( propMakeDenier ) ; ( 4 ) vaccinated users ( but not cured users ) attempt to cure or vaccinate their neighbors with a probability ( probAcceptDeny ) each time step t .
With the details given , the input parameters in the new model are the same as in baseline except the time lag which is replaced with propMakeDenier : random seed , number of users , maximum links per node ( for the BA network construction ) , initially infected users , probability of infecting , probability of accepting a denial , and probability of making a denier .
6 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
This section further supports the hypothesis that is more realistic to consider that users who have spread a rumor will not spread anti rumors in Twitter . For that purpose , the baseline approach and the novel spread model have been implemented to compare their results with the two Twitter datasets explained in section 4 . More specifically , the number of users endorsing and denying a rumor in the simulation is compared to the number of these users in the real data . Thus , the following distance metric is used to validate the realism of the simulations : d(endorsers , sim , dataset ) + d(deniers , sim , dataset ) , where d calculates the Euclidean distance between the number of users ( nu ) of a specific
Figure 1 : Experimental results . type ( endorser or denier ) in the simulation and the dataset ( obama or palin ) for the days considered ( nDays ) .
The number of endorsers and deniers users is calculated differently for datasets , the baseline model , and the proposed model . In the datasets , a user is counted as endorser or denier if his or her last tweet was labelled as endorsers or denies , respectively . In the baseline approach , infected users count as endorsers and , vaccinated and cured as deniers . In the proposed model , cured agents are counted as users endorsing the rumor along with the infected agents ; and only vaccinated agents are counted as users denying the rumor .
The implementation uses , among others , the MASON Multiagent Simulation Toolkit3 and the GraphStream project . The employed parameters combinations give over 173K experiments for the baseline and over 170K experiments for the proposed model .
Figure 1 shows the main results . The figure shows the distances for the obama and palin datasets : ( 1 ) in the best case achieved by the models ; ( 2 ) and , in the best mean of distances considering all random seeds for a parameter values set4 . These results show that the proposed model achieves reductions of distance between 45.80 % , obama best case , and 83.07 % , palin best case . Extended experiments results are available online in the additional material web [ 1 ] .
7 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS The epidemiological modeling is the hegemonic approach to model rumor spreading . This paper challenges that approach by assuming that users who realize that have spread a false rumor typically : ( 1 ) will not spread anti rumors , or ( 2 ) there will not be empirical evidence of the retraction . Therefore , the recovered users will not affect the recovery of their neighbors . The exploratory data analysis of two Twitter rumor datasets about Obama and Palin supports this
3Mason : http://csgmuedu/~eclab/projects/mason/ 4Standard deviations are also provided in the extended experiments [ 1 ] .
813 hypothesis . Concretely , most of the users information comes from a single tweet which allows researchers to consider them rumor endorsers or deniers , making the “ recovery ” perception unavailable . A novel agent based rumor spread model considering the explained hypothesis is introduced in this paper . The proposed model is compared to one of the earliest agent based social simulation ( ABSS ) rumor spread models for the Twitter case . Experimental results show that the novel model is able to reduce between 45 % and 83 % the distance with the two Twitter datasets studied . Both the Twitter datasets and the complete experimental data are available online [ 1 ] .
Our main future work is the integration of the presented model with Big Data technologies to : explore how to automatically model Twitter users ; compare these models with historic and online data generated by these users ; to adjust the model parameters with the online data generated ; and to suggest actions for maximizing or minimizing the information spread .
Acknowledgments This research work is supported by the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness under the R&D project CALISTA ( TEC2012 32457 ) ; by the Spanish Ministry of Industry , Energy and Tourism under the R&D project BigMarket ( TSI 100102 2013 80 ) ; and , by the Autonomous Region of Madrid through the program MOSI AGIL CM ( grant P2013/ICE 3019 , co funded by EU Structural Funds FSE and FEDER ) .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Paper additional material , datasets and extended experiments . http://googl/ImJCKt
[ 2 ] Twitter REST API documentation website . https://devtwittercom/overview/documentation
[ 3 ] Twitter terms of use website . https://devtwittercom/overview/terms/policy
[ 4 ] M . De Domenico , A . Lima , P . Mougel , and
M . Musolesi . The Anatomy of a Scientific Rumor . Scientific Reports , 3 , Oct . 2013 .
[ 5 ] J . D . Farmer and D . Foley . The economy needs agent based modelling . Nature , 460(7256):685–686 , Aug . 2009 .
[ 6 ] F . Flentge , D . Polani , and T . Uthmann . Modelling the emergence of possession norms using memes . J . Artificial Societies and Social Simulation , ( 4 ) .
[ 7 ] T . Garcia Valverde , F . Campuzano , E . Serrano , A . Villa , and J . A . Botia . Simulation of human behaviours for the validation of ambient intelligence services : A methodological approach . Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments , 4(3):163–181 , Aug . 2012 .
[ 8 ] M . A . d . C . Gatti , A . P . Appel , C . N . dos Santos , C . S . Pinhanez , P . R . Cavalin , and S . B . Neto . A simulation based approach to analyze the information diffusion in microblogging online social network . In Proceedings of the 2013 Winter Simulation Conference : Simulation : Making Decisions in a Complex World , WSC ’13 , pages 1685–1696 , Piscataway , NJ , USA , 2013 . IEEE Press .
[ 9 ] H . W . Hethcote . The mathematics of infectious diseases . SIAM Review , 42:599–653 , 2000 .
[ 10 ] J . Kostka , Y . A . Oswald , and R . Wattenhofer . Word of Mouth : Rumor Dissemination in Social Networks Structural Information and Communication Complexity . In A . A . Shvartsman and P . Felber , editors , Structural Information and Communication Complexity , volume 5058 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , chapter 16 , pages 185–196 . Springer Berlin / Heidelberg , Berlin , Heidelberg , 2008 .
[ 11 ] D . Liu and X . Chen . Rumor propagation in online social networks like twitter – a simulation study . In Proceedings of the 2011 Third International Conference on Multimedia Information Networking and Security , MINES ’11 , pages 278–282 , Washington , DC , USA , 2011 . IEEE Computer Society .
[ 12 ] M . Mendoza , B . Poblete , and C . Castillo . Twitter under crisis : Can we trust what we rt ? In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media Analytics , SOMA ’10 , pages 71–79 , New York , NY , USA , 2010 . ACM .
[ 13 ] M . Nekovee , Y . Moreno , G . Bianconi , and M . Marsili .
Theory of rumour spreading in complex social networks . Physica A : Statistical Mechanics and its Applications , 374(1):457 – 470 , 2007 .
[ 14 ] V . Qazvinian , E . Rosengren , D . R . Radev , and
Q . Mei . Rumor has it : Identifying misinformation in microblogs . In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , EMNLP ’11 , pages 1589–1599 , Stroudsburg , PA , USA , 2011 . Association for Computational Linguistics .
[ 15 ] W . Rand and R . T . Rust . Agent based modeling in marketing : Guidelines for rigor . International Journal of Research in Marketing , 28(3):181–193 , Sept . 2011 .
[ 16 ] E . Seo , P . Mohapatra , and T . Abdelzaher . Identifying rumors and their sources in social networks . 2012 .
[ 17 ] E . Serrano , P . Moncada , M . Garijo , and C . A . Iglesias .
Evaluating social choice techniques into intelligent environments by agent based social simulation . Information Sciences , 286(0):102–124 , 2014 .
[ 18 ] E . Serrano , G . Poveda , and M . Garijo . Towards a holistic framework for the evaluation of emergency plans in indoor environments . Sensors , 14(3):4513–4535 , 2014 .
[ 19 ] E . Serrano , M . Rovatsos , and J . A . Bot´ıa . Data mining agent conversations : A qualitative approach to multiagent systems analysis . Information Sciences , 230(0):132 – 146 , 2013 .
[ 20 ] S . Tisue and U . Wilensky . NetLogo : A Simple Environment for Modeling Complexity . 2004 .
[ 21 ] R . M . Tripathy , A . Bagchi , and S . Mehta . A study of rumor control strategies on social networks . In Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management , CIKM ’10 , pages 1817–1820 , New York , NY , USA , 2010 . ACM .
[ 22 ] L . Weng , F . Menczer , and Y Y Ahn . Virality prediction and community structure in social networks . Scientific Reports , 3 , Aug . 2013 .
[ 23 ] S . Y . Yang , A . Liu , and S . Y . K . Mo . Twitter financial community modeling using agent based simulation . SSRN scholarly paper , Rochester , NY . IEEE Computational Intelligence in Financial Engineering and Economics , London , 2013 .
814
