Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
110 8th Street
Troy , NY difrad@rpi.edu
110 8th Street
Troy , NY glorim@rpi.edu
Linked Ethnographic Data : From Theory to Practice Dominic DiFranzo
James Hendler
Marie Joan Kristine Gloria Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
110 8th Street
Troy , NY handler@csrpiedu
ABSTRACT As Web Science continues to mix methods from the many disciplines that study the web , we must begin to seriously look at mixing and linking data across the Qualitative and Quantitative divide . A large difficulty in this is in modeling and archiving Qualitative data . In this paper , we outline what these difficulties are in detail with a focus on the data practices of Ethnography . We describe how linked data technologies can address these issues . We demonstrate this with a case study in modeling data from audio interviews that were taken in an ethnographic study conducted in our lab . We conclude with a discussion on future work that needs to be done to better equip researchers with these tools and methods .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H11 Systems and Information Theory ( E.4 )
General Terms Human Factors ; Theory
Keywords Ethnography ; Linked Data ; Web Science ; Mixed Methods
1 . INTRODUCTION In trying to understand the Web ( eg how it ’s used , constructed , etc. ) , current research often emphasizes technological elements at the cost of the social , leaving the circle of Web Science research incomplete . This article moves to close the loop by examining emerging social concerns to inform the technical . Specifically , this paper builds on discussions for epistemological and methodological pluralism in systems used by researchers , like ethnographers and Web Scientists , who use the Web as both an artifact of study and for study . the
In this paper we explore why leveraging linked data principles can enhance a qualitative researcher ’s workflow through provenance and metadata . We present our application as a case study focused on protest rally participant behaviors . As the focus of this paper is to discuss alternative tools , the findings from the case study are omitted as they fall outside the scope of this paper . We conclude by reflecting on the value of Linked Data technologies in qualitative research , and the need for further theoretical and technical development in this space .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082745942
2 . Case Study
The following section demonstrates our application of linked data to a specific use case ethnography study being conducted in the Tetherless World Constellation ( TWC ) at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute . To reiterate , the goal of this section is to highlight the method and process of which linked data is leveraged to encode data captured through more traditional ethnographic techniques . As such , final analysis and commentary regarding the privacy study will not be included as it falls outside the scope of this piece . The goal , however , is to showcase the potential impact linked data technologies may have for more traditional qualitative research methods . to the event , in located the researcher engaged
Early exploratory fieldwork was conducted in fall 2013 as part of a longitudinal study investigating individual constructions and practices of privacy . The field site was in Washington , DC and motivated by an anti surveillance protest rally . Prior the development of semi structured questions based on relevant domain literature to elicit answers regarding personal motivation . Sample questions include ( but are not limited to ) : Why did you attend today ’s event ? ; How did you hear about today ’s event ? ; and How knowledgeable are you about the concerns related to the event ? The nature of these questions were intentionally openended in order to capture as much information as possible from each interview . Subjects were chosen at random , on site during the rally ( though a self selection bias is noted as it was an opt in participation ) . All interviewees were explicitly informed of the nature of which the information would be used in the future and were given the opportunity to provide additional identifiable information , like personal emails , if desired .
All interviews were captured via audio recording ( the “ voice memo ” iPhone app ) , which were later transcribed and coded . The audio files have been transferred and are stored on a local machine . No personal identifiable information was audible within any of the recordings and all participants remain anonymous throughout the capture , transcription and coding of the audio data . In addition to the audio interviews , pictures and video of the entire rally were also captured by an associated researcher . However , this data has yet to be annotated or coded . The coding parameters reflect ideas conveyed in the literature which spans multiple domains from surveillance studies , cognitive science , psychology , legal studies and media studies .
Taking the table of the transcription of the interview , along with the coding , we were able to convert this information to linked data using the converter ( CSV2RDF4LOD)1 developed by the TWC for the Open Government Data project . This converter
1 https://github.com/timrdf/csv2rdf4lod automation/wiki
359 can take any tabular data and convert this to RDF , and remodel it using any vocabularies or ontologies . the Open Annotation Data Model ( http://wwwopenannotationorg/spec/core/ ) to model the annotation ( in our case the transcription is the annotation ) . Additionally , we included coding of these transcriptions from the interview . In Figure 1 , an example outline of one such transcription annotation is provided . This annotation is linked to the metadata that describes when it took place , who wrote the annotation , etc . With this structure , other researchers can provide their own annotation and transcription to this same audio section , link it to the specific audio URI and preserve his or her own interpretation or understanding of the same artifact . Additionally , these annotations can be linked to other data and media assets . For example , this annotation in Figure 1 could be linked to a tweet that took place at the same event and was coded in the same manner by the original or other researchers .
Figure 1 : Model of an audio segment being transcribed and coded by a research , using RDF
2.1 DISCUSSION linked data and semantic web
While this annotation tool is an interesting first step in technologies for utilizing structuring and modeling ethnographic data , much more work still remains . First and foremost is the need for better tools and user interfaces that allow non technical qualitative researchers to produce linked data on their own . Our example of the RDF encoding was only successful because of the research team ’s technical proficiency and familiarity with tools used . Additionally , one must have working knowledge of data modeling and semantic web technologies . The key is to develop and integrate these semantic technologies into tools and frameworks already used by social scientists . the be deliberated . For example , we ask questions of how much and what can be shared ? ; how is anonymity maintained ? ; how do researchers evaluate risks for subjects if data is shared ? ; and , how can we leverage linked data to protect and control this information ? .
3 . REFERENCES
1 . Angrosino , Michael V . , and K . A . Mays de Pérez .
Rethinking observation . From method to context . Teoksessa NK Denzin & YS Lincoln ( toim . ) Handbook of qualitative research . Thousand Oaks : Sage , 2000 .
2 . Bowker , G . C . , & Star , S . L . ( 2000 ) . Sorting things out :
Classification and its consequences . MIT press .
3 . Boyd , D . , & Crawford , K . ( 2012 ) . Critical questions for big data : Provocations for a cultural , technological , and scholarly phenomenon . Information , Communication & Society , 15(5 ) , 662 679 .
4 . Dublin Core Metadata Element Set , Version 1.1 : Reference
Description , Dublin Core
5 . Metadata Initiative , Reference Description 2004 12 20 2004 . 6 . DCMI Usage Board . The Dublin Core Metadata Initiative . http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi terms/
7 . Gloria , M . J . K . , DiFranzo , D . , Navarro , M . F . , & Hendler , J .
( 2013 , May ) . The performativity of data : reconceptualizing the web of data . In Proceedings of the 5th Annual ACM Web Science Conference ( pp . 109 117 ) . ACM .
8 . Halford , S . , Pope , C . , & Weal , M . ( 2013 ) . Digital futures ? Sociological challenges and opportunities in the emergent Semantic Web . Sociology , 47(1 ) , 173 189 .
9 . Hooper , Clare J . , Nicolas Marie , and Evangelos Kalampokis .
"Dissecting the butterfly : representation of disciplines publishing at the web science conference series." Proceedings of the 3rd Annual ACM Web Science Conference . ACM , 2012 .
10 . Kramer , S . , et al . "Using RDF to describe and link social science data to related resources on the Web : leveraging the Data Documentation Initiative ( DDI ) model." ( 2012 ) .
11 . Poirier , L . , DiFranzo , D . , Gloria , M . J . K . , ( 2014 , June ) .
Light structure in the Platform for Experimental Collaborative Ethnography . In Web Science 2014 Workshop Interdisciplinary Coups to Calamities
12 . Tiropanis , T . , Hall , W . , Shadbolt , N . , De Roure , D . ,
Contractor , N . , & Hendler , J . ( 2013 ) . The Web Science Observatory . IEEE Intelligent Systems , 28(2 ) , 100 104 .
We also recognize that in enabling such collaborations , safeguards to protect the privacy of the data will be critical . As most human centric research requires institutional approval , considerations for how certain data parameters and consent should
360
