Collaborative Exchange of Systematic Literature Review
Results : The Case of Empirical Software Engineering
Fajar J . Ekaputra1 Marta Sabou1 Estefanía Serral2 Stefan Biffl1
1 ) Vienna University of Technology , Christian Doppler Laboratory CDL Flex
Favoritenstrasse 9 11/188 , AT 1040 Vienna , Austria
{firstnamelastname}@tuwienacat
2 ) KU Leuven , Dept . of Decision Sciences and Information Management
Naamsestraat 69 , 3000 Leuven , Belgium . estefaniaserralasensio@kuleuvenbe
ABSTRACT Complementary to managing bibliographic information as done by digital libraries , the management of concrete research objects ( eg , experimental workflows , design patterns ) is a pre requisite to foster collaboration and re use of research results . In this paper we describe the case of the Empirical Software Engineering domain , where researchers use systematic literature reviews ( SLRs ) to conduct and report on literature studies . Given their structured nature , the outputs of such SLR processes are a special and complex type of research object . Since performing SLRs is a time consuming process , it is highly desirable to enable sharing and reuse of the complex knowledge structures produced through SLRs . This would enable , for example , conducting new studies that build on the findings of previous studies . To support collaborative features necessary for multiple research groups to share and re use each other ’s work , we hereby propose a solution approach that is inspired by software engineering best practices and is implemented using Semantic Web technologies .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] Scientific databases ; H53 [ Group & Organization Interfaces ] Collaborative computing
Keywords Collaboration , Research Publication , SLR , EMSE 1 . Introduction Scholarly data has diverse facets . For this paper we distinguish between 1 ) bibliographic data and 2 ) content data ( including research objects , eg , experimental workflows ) . Digital libraries such as Google Scholar or Microsoft Academic Search focus on bibliographic data such as authors , venues , co authorship relations as well as broad topic domains . The representation and management of content data , such as experimental setups and results , is another important aspect and has received much attention especially in the life sciences domain . For example , MyExperiment [ 6 ] allows sharing and reusing scientific workflows , while the ontologydesignpatterns.org [ 4 ] platform supports a community based effort for sharing , validating and reusing ontology design patterns . A key motivation behind representing , storing and providing improved access to research objects is to foster their reuse by other researchers . It is therefore natural that collaborative
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742027 features are important for systems storing research objects . To that end , MyExperiment and ontologydesignpattern.org build around communities of users and allow their interaction and collaboration through Web2.0 elements . In the Empirical Software Engineering Domain ( EMSE ) , the complexity of the research objects , however , requires a more complex collaboration infrastructure . In this paper we focus on the issue of collaboratively managing complex research objects . In particular , we exemplify such issues in the area of EMSE , where the extraction of such complex research objects are typically performed according to Systematic Literature Study ( SLR ) approach [ 5 ] . We describe the current issues of the EMSE domain in Section 2 . In Section 3 we propose the Collaborative Exchange of SLR results ( CESLR ) approach , a technology agnostic guideline for sharing and publishing EMSE research publication data through integration of results from SLR studies . We discuss the strengths and weaknesses of Semantic Web technologies to implement our solution approach in Section 4 , where we also conclude and provide insights into future work .
Digital Libraries
Research Community
EMSE Papers
Publication
Digital Library
SLR Output
Papers
EMSE Papers
EMSE
Researcher #1
EMSE
Readership
EMSE
Researcher #2
SLR
Data Access
Data Access
SLR
Data Access
Data Storage
Data Storage
SLR Data Extract
Data and Technology
EMSE SLR KB #1
EMSE SLR
Data Integration
EMSE SLR KB #2
SLR Data Extract
Figure 1 EMSE Stakeholders and Challenges 2 . Publication Data Analysis in EMSE Figure 1 illustrates the current problem setting in EMSE . Researchers inspect previously published papers drawn from digital libraries and apply the SLR process to extract detailed and structured data about the EMSE experiments reported in those publications . Currently the main result of a SLR process is , in general , a specific research synthesis report ( ie , a conference paper , a journal article ) made public through digital libraries [ 2 ] . Meanwhile the accumulated knowledge in the SLR working material ( SLR Data Extract in Figure 1 ) is typically not made available to other researchers or the general readership .
1055 Figure 2 IDEF 0 diagram of CESLR approach .
The lack of sharing the actual SLR output has several drawbacks : ( 1 ) the general EMSE readership is deprived from accessing and querying accurate and well curated data that are the basis for the SLR based scientific publications ; ( 2 ) other EMSE researchers cannot explore the underlying extracted information to answer questions related to their specific research goals ; ( 3 ) there is no possibility for complex , meta analyses tasks that would rely on combining data from more than one SLR study . 3 . CESLR Approach The Collaborative Exchange of Systematic Literature Review results ( CESLR ) approach is built on top of the Research Knowledge Base ( RKB ) [ 3 ] , an approach that focuses on creating Knowledge Base for a single SLR result . CESLR aims to address drawbacks from traditional SLR and RKB process to manage the research data by providing means for collaborative exchange of SLR study results and provide users with a consistent view of integrated SLR data and reproducible query results . The CESLR approach consists of four main phases as discussed next and shown in Figure 2 . Data Verification . In this process , the pull request generated by one of the RKB processes will be checked and analyzed by both the EMSE domain experts and knowledge engineers . The goal of the verification is to check the relevance and correctness of the data against the content in the integrated repository . Data Integration . The integration phase decide whether to merge the new data or to create a separate repository for it . It is also possible to add and/or integrate external data into CESLR repository , eg , integration of glossary data , which contains sets of synonym of EMSE concepts to enhance the term based search feature . Relevant Query Definition . Along with the pull request , a list of predefined queries could be sent into CESLR repository . Selected queries coming from the RKB process and additional queries from the domain experts will provide a set of queries for the users of the released data . Public Data Release . The integration data and the query definitions is aggregated into a release of data . The goal of this phase is to provide a persistent set of data releases that could be accessed and queried consistently .
4 . Conclusion and Further Work We have introduced the CESLR approach , a technology agnostic guideline for integrating EMSE research publication data through integration of results from SLR studies . We are working to build a working prototype of CESLR based on Semantic Web and we have identified the following advantages of using Semantic Web to represent scholarly data in EMSE domain : 
Flexible data model for data integration . Semantic web technologies provide a flexible way to handle different data models and to integrate them into a common repository .
 Concept based search . Semantic web technologies provide the capability of concept based search and improves search results [ 1 ] .
Furthermore , we have identified several important points for our further work as follows :  Extraction of content data . To support for a ( semi ) auto matic extraction of content data of research publications .
 Change management of scholarly data . To provide a robust ontology and data change support for complex research publication content .
 Automatic concept classification detection . To provide an automatic classification of SLR concepts hierarchy from heterogeneous sources .
References [ 1 ] Biffl , S . , Kalinowski , M . , Ekaputra , FJ , Serral , E . and Winkler , D .
2014 . Building Empirical Software Engineering Bodies of Knowledge with Systematic Knowledge Engineering . Proceeding of 26th SEKE Conference ( 2014 ) , 552–559 .
[ 3 ]
[ 2 ] Cruzes , DS and Dybå , T . 2011 . Research synthesis in software engineering : A tertiary study . Information and Software Technology . 53 , 5 ( May 2011 ) , 440–455 . Ekaputra , FJ , Serral , E . and Biffl , S . 2014 . Building an Empirical Software Engineering Research Knowledge Base from Heterogeneous Data Sources . 14th I KNOW Conference ( 2014 ) . [ 4 ] Gangemi , A . , Gómez Pérez , A . , Presutti , V . and Suárez Figueroa , MC 2007 . Towards a Catalog of OWL based Ontology Design Patterns .
[ 5 ] Kitchenham , B . and Charters , S . 2007 . Guidelines for performing
Systematic Literature Review in Software Engineering . Keele University Technical Report EBSE 2007 01 ( 2007 ) .
[ 6 ] Roure , D . De , Goble , C . and Stevens , R . 2009 . The design and realisation of the Virtual Research Environment for social sharing of workflows . Future Generation Computer Systems . ( 2009 ) .
1056
