Identifying Successful Investors in the Startup Ecosystem
Srishti Gupta , Robert Pienta , Acar Tamersoy , Duen Horng Chau , Rahul C . Basole
Georgia Institute of Technology , College of Computing
{srishtigupta , pientars , tamersoy , polo , basole}@gatech.edu
ABSTRACT Who can spot the next Google , Facebook , or Twitter ? Who can discover the next billion dollar startups ? Measuring investor success is a challenging task , as investment strategies can vary widely . We propose InvestorRank , a novel method for identifying successful investors by analyzing how an investor ’s collaboration network change over time . InvestorRank captures the intuition that a successful investor achieves increasingly success in spotting great startups , or is able to keep doing so persistently . Our results show potential in discovering relatively unknown investors that may be the success stories of tomorrow .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
Keywords investor ; startup ; success metric ; network analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Who can spot the next billion dollar startup ? How can we discover talented investors who can find such hidden gems ? Conventional measures of an investor ’s success is frequently measured by the proportion of startup firms in his or her investment portfolio that filed for initial public offering ( IPO ) , were acquired , or merged with another firm [ 2 , 4 ] , or a combination thereof . However , no prior work has proposed a measure that leverages network effects to quantify how the relationships among venture capitalists ( VC ) and angel investors may lead to successful investments . Angel investors or angels are influential investors who contribute in early rounds of funding . Among them , the most successful ones are called super angels . But , again , there is no objective measure that suggests why they are so [ 5 , 6 , 8 ] . This is a significant gap , because recent research showed that investor networks are valuable source of information in startup financing [ 1 ] . Our paper fills this gap . The overarching goal
Figure 1 : Example investors with increasing or persistently good InvestorRanks . Each chart shows how the investor ranks over time among all investors ( lower is better ) , each value computed from a collaboration network snapshot of a 3 quarter window ( 2007 Q1 Q3 , 2007 Q2 Q4 , , 2013 Q2 Q4 ) . of our work is to formulate an effective network centric metric for measuring successful investor behavior , irrespective of investor type ( individual vs . firm ) or the number of investments .
2 . OUR APPROACH : INVESTORRANK
Intuitively , investors do not become hugely successful over night—this takes time , possibly years , by judiciously selecting their co investors . That is , we want to measure if an investor becomes increasingly “ close ” to some known exemplar successful investors over time , such as by co investing with a super angel , or with another successful investor who co invested with a super angel .
We propose InvestorRank , a network centric approach that captures this intuition , by analyzing an investor ’s timevarying collaboration network to mine successful co investment behavior . It gauges the similarity in an investor ’s behavior with that of a set of successful firms or angels , such that new investors with investment behavior similar to that of super angels are ranked higher .
Time varying Investor Collaboration Network . We use a time varying bipartite graph containing nodes for investors and startups to represent the change in their co
39 investment over time . A link between an investor and a startup represents an investment . This graph includes the exemplar investors , the startups they invested in , and any other investor that invested in those startups . We generate this time varying graph using data from CrunchBase1 , a socially curated website containing information on startups and fundings , obtained in December 2013 . This dataset contains 56,847 investments made in 19,375 startups by 11,096 investors . We take snapshots of the graph at regular intervals , using a sliding window of width ω ( eg , 3 quarters ) . Thus , an edge in a snapshot represents an investment made in that time window . Together , these snapshots form the time varying investor collaboration network . Figure 2 shows an example subgraph in a snapshot .
Figure 2 : Example collaboration subgraph from the network for the last 3 quarters of 2012 ( 2012 Q2Q4 ) . Circles are startups . Rectangles are investors . An edge denotes an investment .
Angels as Exemplar Successful Investors . We collected 19 exemplar investors from a combination of online articles [ 5 , 6 ] and the Wikipedia super angel list [ 8 ] . Some of them are firms , some are super angels2 . Our list was then examined by an experienced researcher familiar with the VC ecosystem , who deemed their investment and co investment behaviors as highly successful .
The InvestorRank Algorithm . The central idea of InvestorRank is to measure if an investor becomes increasingly “ close ” to some known exemplar successful investors over time , such as by directly co investing in a startup with a super angel or another successful investor , or indirectly by investing alongside other investors who are investing with the exemplar investors . Figure 3 shows how an example investor ’s increasing success is captured by its increasing closeness to a super angel .
Figure 3 : Investor A ’s InvestorRank improves at time T1 , thanks to the new investment ( orange edge ) that brings A closer to the super angel .
1wwwcrunchbasecom 2Exemplar investors : Scott Banister , Cyan Banister , Ron Conway , David Lee , SV Angel , Keith Rabois , Reid Hoffman , Greylock Partners , Peter Thiel , Sean Parker , Ken Howery , Founders Fund , Founder Collective , Chris Dixon , Bill Trenchard , Caterina Fake , David Frankel , Mark Gerson , and Zach Klein .
InvestorRank adapts the personalized PageRank algorithm [ 3 , 7 ] with the widely used damping factor of 0.85 to compute such a closeness score for each investor , based on how far they are relative to the exemplar investors in the graph . Personalized PageRank has been used to solve many realworld problems , such as ranking webpages based on personal preferences or recommending products to customers . Adapting it for measuring investor success is novel .
In detail , investors’ closeness scores are computed against the 19 exemplar investors that are ranked the highest by design ( with a score of 1 ) ; an investor having a score closer to 1 means that the investor is becoming more successful as he or she is becoming more similar to an exemplar investor . We compute and track an investor ’s InvestorRank over time , using a 3 quarter sliding window . Thus , each graph snapshot describes the investments made in a period of 3 quarters ; its first quarter overlaps with its preceding snapshot , and its last quarter overlaps with its succeeding snapshot ( eg , 2007 Q1 Q3 , 2007 Q2 Q4 , , 2013 Q2 Q4 ) .
3 . OUR FINDINGS & FUTURE WORK
InvestorRank provides us with a quantifiable method to identify successful investors . We are currently using two heuristics for identification . We flag an investor if his or her InvertorRank : ( i ) is consistently below 100 , exceeding that value at most twice ; or ( ii ) follows a general trend of improvement , it either decreases or increases to at most 8 times of the value in the preceding snapshot . Interestingly , the second rule flags potentially successful investors effectively out of the 1,524 unlabeled investors in our CrunchBase data ; all flagged investors have ranks under 200 , and usually under 50 . Figure 1 shows several such successful investors . In addition , InvestorRank discovers successful , but less well known , investors who may be rising stars , eg , Paul Buchheit , General Catalyst Partners . Our next step is to verify our findings through expert interviews . We also plan to incorporate the effects of funding amount and the time of funding in the life cycle of a startup into InvestorRank .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . C . Basole and J . Putrevu . Venture financing in the mobile ecosystem . In ICMB , 2013 .
[ 2 ] P . A . Gompers , A . Kovner , and J . Lerner .
Specialization and success : Evidence from venture capital . Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , 18(3):817–844 , 2009 .
[ 3 ] T . Haveliwala , S . Kamvar , and G . Jeh . An analytical comparison of approaches to personalizing pagerank . Technical Report 2003 35 , Stanford University , 2003 .
[ 4 ] Y . V . Hochberg , A . Ljungqvist , and Y . Lu . Whom you know matters : Venture capital networks and investment performance . The Journal of Finance , 62(1):251–301 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] F . Manjoo . How “ super angles ” are reinventing the startup economy . [ Online ; posted 11 January 2011 ] .
[ 6 ] N . Saint . Who are the super angels ? A comprehensive guide . [ Online ; posted 4 October 2010 ] .
[ 7 ] H . Tong , C . Faloutsos , and J . Y . Pan . Fast random walk with restart and its applications . In ICDM , 2006 .
[ 8 ] Wikipedia . Super angels . [ Online ; posted
28 December 2014 ] .
InvestorsStartupsSuper AngelAT0T140
