A Recommender System for Connecting Patients to the
Right Doctors in the HealthNet Social Network
Fedelucio Narducci†‡ , Cataldo Musto†‡ , Marco Polignano† , Marco de Gemmis† , Pasquale Lops† , Giovanni Semeraro†
†Dept . of Computer Science , University of Bari Aldo Moro , Italy
‡Murex CS srl , Bari , Italy namesurname@unibait
ABSTRACT In this work we present a semantic recommender system able to suggest doctors and hospitals that best fit a specific patient profile . The recommender system is the core component of the social network named HealthNet ( HN ) . The recommendation algorithm first computes similarities among patients , and then generates a ranked list of doctors and hospitals suitable for a given patient profile , by exploiting health data shared by the community . Accordingly , the HN user can find her most similar patients , look how they cured their diseases , and receive suggestions for solving her problem . Currently , the alpha version of HN is available only for Italian users , but in the next future we want to extend the platform to other languages . We organized three focus groups with patients , practitioners , and health organizations in order to obtain comments and suggestions . All of them proved to be very enthusiastic by using the HN platform1 . Keywords e health , social network , smart health , recommender system 1 .
INTRODUCTION E MOTIVATION
The main desire when experiencing a health problem is to find a doctor or hospital with the best expertise for solving our health condition . In the US , a nonprofit group named Consumers’ Checkbook ( CB ) won a lawsuit allowing it to have access to Medicare ’s doctors records , but the government appealed the decision2 . The goal of the group was to have access to a database for analyzing how often a doctor performs a procedure ( eg , knee replacements , prostate surgery ) in order to define a first quality indicator associated with proficiency . Indeed , choosing a doctor can be viewed as a typical problem of information asymmetry , because of the information available to the patient is too weak to make an informed choice . In the last years , the new healthcare
English
1An http://193204187192:8080/HealthNetVideo/ 2http://wwwnytimescom/2008/09/30/health/30findhtml ? r=0 available demo at of
HN is practice supported by electronic process and communication ( ie , e health ) [ 1 ] , is changing the landscape of clinical practice and health care . Indeed , 72 % of US Internet users looked online for health information within the past years3 . Similarly , in Italy , 84 % of young people aged between 18 and 35 use the Web for searching health information4 . Sharing information and knowledge can empower patients and lead the patient/care team relationship towards a patientcentered medicine . One of the most relevant initiatives in that direction is the US social network PatientsLikeMe ( PLM)5 . This social network enables patients to share , compare and contrast different diagnoses and treatments with people in the same conditions anywhere in the world . PLM counts 300,000 patients sharing 2,300 different conditions . In addition to PLM , many forums , blogs , and more generally web sites deal with health problems , but the information is often confused , difficult to understand , and can lead easily to wrong self diagnosis [ 2 ] . In this paper , we present a recommender system that helps users in finding solutions for their health conditions This recommender system is embedded in the HealthNet ( HN ) social network , whose main goal is similar to PLM : sharing knowledge , finding similar patients , looking at their experiences . The main difference between HN and PLM is that HN embeds a recommender system that is able not only to discover similarity between patients , but also to provide suggestions about practitioners and hospitals that best fit the patient profile , based on the data coming from the community . In this way , HN prevents self diagnosis but at the same time helps patients to find a solution represented by a doctor or a health facility . Other Health Related Recommender Systems ( HRS ) are presented in the literature [ 3 ] . To the best of our knowledge , the HRS implemented in HN is the first one able to suggest doctors and hospitals by performing an advanced , semantic matching between patient profiles . In the following Section 2 , we provide a descriptions of the platform and describe the recommender system , Section 3 shows the results of a preliminary experimental evaluation , and finally Section 4 draws conclusions and future work . 2 . THE HN RECOMMENDER SYSTEM
HN is implemented as a standard social network where users are patients . The first interaction with the system is
3http://wwwpewinternetorg/2013/01/15/health online2013/ 4http://itejoch/tag/eikon strategic consulting 5http://wwwpatientslikemecom
81 the registration step . Then , the patient can enter personal health data : conditions , treatments ( eg , drugs , dosages , side effects , surgeries ) , health indicators ( eg , blood pressure , body weight , laboratory analysis , etc. ) , consulted doctors , hospitalizations . In this way , HN centralizes individual health data and allows a simple and organized access to them . Furthermore , users can take advantage from sharing their data by obtaining suggestions about doctors and health facilities . In order to receive recommendations , the user should enter at least one condition she is affected by . For each condition , a simple click on the “ How can I cure it ? ” button allows the patient to receive suggestions . It is worth noting that the HN user can decide to be anonymous , by indicating only a nickname during the registration step . Accordingly , health data entered in HN will not be linkable to a real identity , thus preserving user privacy . The Recommender System is the core component of HN . It exploits patient profiles for suggesting other similar patients , doctors , hospitals ( the list of suggested , patients , doctors and hospitals can be further filtered by position and disease ) . The similarity between two patients p , p is computed in terms of conditions and treatments . The semantic matching between the conditions exploits the HN disease hierarchy6 . More formally , the similarity score between two patients is computed as follows : k z i=1 n j=1 sc(pci , p r cj ) k ∗ n j=1 st(pti , p z ∗ r s(p , p
) = α
+(1 − α ) i=1
+ tj )
( 1 )
, where k ( respectively n ) is the number of conditions p ( respectively p ) is affected by , pc is a condition of the patient p , z ( respectively r ) is the number of treatments for p ( respectively p ) , pt is a treatment for the patient p . sc(pci , p cj ) is the condition similarity between ci , and cj , while st(pti , p tj ) is the treatment similarity between ti , and tj . They are computed as follows : cj ) = sc(pci , p
( 2 )
, if ci = cj sp(ci,cj ) , otherwise
Pci 1 log P st(pti , p tj ) =
1 , if ti = tj 0 , otherwise
( 3 )
The similarity score sc for patients experiencing the same condition ci is computed as the logarithm of the ratio between the total number of patients in the database ( P ) and the number of patients affected by that condition ( Pci ) . The aim is to give higher similarity to patients that share rare diseases . For different conditions , the score is simply the reciprocal of the length ( number of edges ) of the shortest path sp that connects the two conditions in the disease hierarchy . The treatment similarity is a simple binary score that is equal to 1 when the treatments are the same ( or they are based on the same active ingredient ) . Treatment similarity and condition similarity scores can differently contribute to the patient similarity score , by varying the α value . The patient similarity is used for computing a ranked list of suggested doctors and hospitals . Given the target patient pi ( for whom suggestions must be provided ) , doctors and hospitals are ranked according to the scoreDoc and scoreH . The scoreDoc for the doctor dz and patient pi is computed by taking into account the rating rj assigned to dz by the other patients in the database , weighted by the similarity score between each one of them and pi : scoreDoc(dz , pi ) = s(pi , pj ) · rj(dz ) .
( 4 )
P j=1
The scoreH takes into account patient similarity , the rating rj assigned by patient pj to a given hospital hm , and also a quality indicator provided by the Italian Health Ministry for every Italian hospital7 . The community indicator and the ministry indicator can be weighted differently by changing the β value :
P scoreH(hm , pi ) = β s(pi , pj ) ∗ rj(hm )
+ ( 1 − β ) · qi(hm ) j=1
3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
( 5 )
A preliminary evaluation has been carried out to compare our semantic approach based on the desease hierarchy to a simple string matching baseline ( SM ) , at different α values . Supported by three practitioners , 12 patient stereotypes ( gold standard ) have been defined . For all pairs of patients , the three domain experts heuristically provided a similarity score in the range [ 0 , 1 ] , which is compared by that given by our recommender system , and the Mean Absolute Error is computed . Results in Table 1 demonstrated that
Table 1 : MAE with different alpha values
α
0.5 MAE .044
1
0
.052
.127
0.7 .043
0.3 .053
SM .190 the best configuration is obtained by α = 07 All configurations have a statistically significant difference compared to the SM ( Paired T test p value <0.01 ) , confirming the usefulness of the semantic matching ( eg , with α = 0.7 , the similarity score between a patient with prostate cancer and another with testicular cancer was 0.82 , while SM was 031 ) 4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We described a recommender system for suggesting doctors and hospitals to patients , based on their semantic similarity , computed by exploiting a desease hierarchy . We are currently working to design an extensive evaluation involving real patients , while in the future we want to extend the system to other languages , to include other similarity measures and to allow user to export and share ( e.g , with her practitioners ) all her health data . Acknowledgments . This work is partially funded by the ” HEALTHNET : The Health Network Il social network della salute ” project , PO Puglia 2007 2013 Asse I L . di Int . 1.4 Az . 142 Living Labs Smart Puglia 2020 . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] V . Della Mea . What is e health ( 2 ) : The death of telemedicine ? J Med Internet Res , 3(2):e22 , June 2001 . [ 2 ] B . W . Hesse , D . E . Nelson , G . L . Kreps , R . T . Croyle ,
N . K . Arora , B . K . Rimer , and K . Viswanath . Trust and sources of health information . Archives of Internal Medicine , 165(22):2618–2624 , 2005 .
[ 3 ] M . Wiesner and D . Pfeifer . Health recommender systems : Concepts , requirements , technical basics and challenges . Int . J . of Environmental Research and Public Health , 11(3):2580–2607 , 2014 .
6The HN disease hierarchy counts 12 , 286 diseases on 7 levels
7http://95110213190/PNEed13/
82
