On Topology of Baidu ’s Association Graph Based on General Recommendation Engine and Users’ Behavior
Cong Men , Wanwan Tang , Po Zhang and Junqi Hou
Baidu Inc . mencong@baidu.com
ABSTRACT To better meet users’ underlying navigational requirement , search engines like Baidu has developed general recommendation engine and provided related entities on the right side of the search engine results page(SERP ) . However , users’ behavior have not been well investigated after the association of individual queries in search engine . To better understand users’ navigational activities , we propose a new method to map users’ behavior to an association graph and make graph analysis . Interesting properties like clustering and assortativity are found in this association graph . This study provides a new perspective on research of semantic network and users’ navigational behavior on SERP .
Categories and Subject Descriptors E.1 [ DATA STRUCTURES ] : Graphs and networks ; H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data mining ; I24 [ Knowledge Representation Formalisms and Methods ] : Semantic networks
Keywords Graph analysis , General recommendation engine , User behavior analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In order to better satisfy users’ needs and further stimulate users’ underlying requirement , search engines(Google , Bing , Baidu etc . ) tend to recommend related entities on the right side of search engine results page(SERP ) based on the technique of knowledge graph in recent years . For example , when the query is ” running man ” ( it is a popular tv show in China , here we directly translate the query into English. ) , general recommendation engine will display the most related actors and tv programs on the right side of SERP as shown in Fig 1 .
Isolated queries become associated with each other , and could be seen as a huge graph due to this technique . User
Figure 1 : An example of Baidu right side recommendation . experience may closely relate to the topology optimization of the network . Research on topology of the huge graph will provide new perspectives on the optimization of knowledge graph .
2 . DATA AND METHODOLOGY
We divide searches into two types based on their origins . One type is defined as information oriented , which means user type a query in the search box , and obtain the corresponding information . The other is defined as navigationoriented , which means user click the recommended entity on the right side , and tend to obtain additional information of the new entity . We will compare users’ behavior of these two types after mapping them into graphs .
We construct the directed graphs based on users’ clickthrough data of Baidu right side recommendation on SERP for these two types of searches . We define these two types of graph as informational graph ( IG ) and navigational graph ( NG ) . Vertices in the graphs are queries , which are different from the query url bipartite graphs in Ref[1 ] If the clickthrough rate for a < q ; e > pair is above a threshold , an edge from vertex q to vertex e exists . Here , q represents the query in the search box , and e represents the displayed entity on the right side of SERP . It makes the relevance of query q and e more reliable by selecting edges based on users’ behavior . Here , we select queries whose average search volume per day are more than 50 to construct the graph . Ten days’ clickdata of all users’ search behavior in Baidu search engine are chosen as the original dataset .
Then , we apply network analysis metrics like clustering coefficient , degree assortativity to investigate the topologies of the informational and navigational graph . We aim to
75 Table 1 : Basic graph metrics of Baidu association graph
Metrics
Size
Connectivity
Clustering Coefficient
IG
471738 0.101 0.162
NG 54732 0.863 0.302
Table 2 : Assortativity coefficient of Baidu association graph
Metrics
Source:in,Destination:in Source:in,Destination:out Source:out,Destination:in Source:out,Destination:out
IG
0.0188 0.075 0.116 0.401
NG 0.092 0.139 0.149 0.479 unveil the underlying characteristics of informational and navigational search patterns by mapping the users’ behavior to a large graph .
3 . GRAPH ANALYSIS
Several basic graph metrics are displayed in Table1 The size of navigational graph is much smaller than that of informational graph . Because most users search for specific information in search engine not for browsing . Furthermore , the objective of Baidu ’s right recommendation is to meet users’ extended demand instead of the master demand .
The largest strongly connected component of navigational graph contains 86:3 % of all queries , which means users can move from one query to another only by clicking right recommended entities in this subset of 86:3 % queries in the graph . It gives users a convenient way to browse for related information . Here , this connectivity number is lower than the traditional social network like Facebook and larger than Twitter[2 , 3 ] . Because there exist some isolated search demands in the navigational graph . In informational graph , the largest strongly connected component contain 10 % queries . Moreover , users tend to focus on the left side of SERP and neglect the recommended entities in informational search .
To better quantify how tightly queries are connected , we apply shortest path length to represent the minimum numbers of right clicks users need from one query to another . The average shortest path length of the largest connected component in navigational graph is 8.6 , which is higher than that of traditional semantic network like thesaurus graph or word associative graph[4 ] . It is also higher than that in traditional social network[2 , 3 ] . One reason is that the connections in our graph is usually not reciprocated . Another reason is that only the most related entities are recommend on the right side of SERP , which makes the out degree of each node has a upper bound . That is one of the main differences between our network and other complex networks . The clustering coefficient is used to quantify the fraction of queries whose correlated queries are themselves correlated in this graph[5 ] . Clustering coefficient in navigational graph is 0.302 , which is larger than that of informational graph 0162 These metrics are lower than that of thesaurus graph but close to that of word associative graph[4 ] .
Degree assortativity measures the similarity of connections in the graph with respect to the node degree . Here , both in degree and out degree correlations of the graph are calculated . We consider four types of degrees : source indegree ( SID ) , source out degree ( SOD ) , destination in degree ( DID ) , and destination out degree ( DOD ) .
In degree and out degree correlations of these two types of graph are shown in Table2 Here , in degree of node depicts the number of pre queries of this query in this graph , and it measures the popularity of the query . Out degree of node quantify to what extent the query could trigger users’ new navigational demands . This metric has a upper bound because space for right recommendation is limited . It is found that all of these metrics are positive . Assortativity coefficient of SOD and DOD is shown to be the highest . That means navigation oriented queries tend to trigger more navigational searches . Furthermore , Popular queries may trigger users to search more related queries by right side clicks in navigational graph . However , this phenomenon is not obvious in informational graph . Furthermore , popular queries’ recommended queries tend to be popular and trigger more related navigational searches . Navigation oriented queries also tend to recommend popular queries to users . It is also interesting that all assortativity coefficients in navigational graph are higher than those in informational graph .
4 . DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
We propose a new semantic graph based on Baidu knowledge graph and users’ behavior in this research . Interesting properties like clustering and assortativity are notably observed in these association graphs especially in navigational graph . This analysis could provide more insights on users behavior and navigational patterns beyond the traditional metrics like click through rate . It may also provide new characteristics to improve the quality of search engines’ right recommendation . Furthermore , different properties in these graphs are also found after comparing with those in traditional social networks and semantic networks .
As a new semantic graph , this search association graph has some advantages than traditional semantic networks . ( 1 ) It is convenient to built a even larger graph after processing more days of search log . ( 2 ) Some underlying association rules are easier to be found based on users’ behavior rather than based on their literal meanings . Therefore , analysis of users’ behavior in search engine provide a new reliable method to build large semantic network .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Baeza Yates , A . Tiberi . Extracting Semantic
Relations from Query Logs . Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 2007 .
[ 2 ] S . A Myers , A . Sharma , P . Gupta and J . Lin .
Information graph or social graph ? : the structure of the twitter follow graph . In International Conference on the World Wide Web , 2014 .
[ 3 ] D . J . Watts and S . H . Strogatz . Collective dynamics of
‘small world’ networks . Nature , 1998 .
[ 4 ] J . Borge Holthoefer , A . Arenas , Semantic Networks :
Structure and Dynamics . Entropy 2010 .
[ 5 ] J . Ugander , B . Karrer , L . Backstrom , and C . Marlow .
The anatomy of the Facebook social graph . arXiv , 2011 .
76
