Visualizing Collaborations and Online Social Interactions at Scientific Conferences for Scholarly Networking
Laurens De Vocht*
Erik Mannens*
Selver Softic†
Anastasia Dimou*
Ruben Verborgh*
Martin Ebner†
Rik Van de Walle*
*iMinds Multimedia Lab Ghent University , Belgium
{firstnamelastname}@ugentbe
†IICM Social Learning Group
Graz University of Technology , Austria {firstnamelastname}@tugrazat
ABSTRACT The various ways of interacting with social media , web collaboration tools , co authorship and citation networks for scientific and research purposes remain distinct . In this paper , we propose a solution to align such information . We particularly developed an exploratory visualization of research networks . The result is a scholar centered , multi perspective view of conferences and people based on their collaborations and online interactions . We measured the relevance and user acceptance of this type of interactive visualization . Preliminary results indicate a high precision both for recognized people and conferences . The majority in a group of test users responded positively to a set of statements about the acceptance .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Social media used by researchers resulted in the emergence of alternative scientific networks beyond the traditional co authorship and citation networks . However , the various ways of scientific interaction , including these with collaboration tools ( eg Mendeley1 , ResearchGate2 and social media ( eg Twitter 3 ) are reflected , but remain distinct from the scholar networks formed in the frame of their publications . Co authorship , citation and social media based networks are rarely associated , let alone combined in a single visual interface . Social media captures an aspect of conferences that proceedings do not , they reflect the “ talk" and networking that goes on during and in between presentations .
Researchers , as other twitter users , tend to adopt hashtags to create threads of communication around a certain topic , eg #SemWeb or #savesd15 . When used appropriately , searching for these hashtags returns messages that belong to the same conversation ( even if they do not contain the same keywords ) . Results are promising concerning the compliance between Twitter hashtags and URIs , and detecting concepts and entities valuable to be treated as new identifiers [ 3 , 5 ] . Applying semantic modeling for Twitter data
1http://wwwmendeleycom 2http://wwwresearchgatenet 3http://wwwtwittercom led to identifying hashtags as good resolvers for the retrieval of information and a solid interlinking base with the rest of the Linked Data Cloud [ 6 ] . For this kind of data , an exploratory visualization scenario to academic metadata is applicable and useful [ 1 ] . Exploratory visualization is the process of creating maps and other interfaces while dealing with relatively unknown data [ 4 ] .
Our visualization finds its application in “ scientometrics ” , the study of measuring and analysing science , technology and innovation [ 7 ] . The novelty in our approach in this context lies in combining Twitter data with co authorship and conference data [ 3 ] . It specifically relates to the challenge of detecting interesting people in a community of interest where it is useful to have a common research focus and thereby using Twitter as a real time source . This includes identifying how a researcher ’s network is structured through collaborations ( ie co authorship ) and how this is reflected in online interactions and who is joining the conversation that might be relevant , before , during and after conferences . Furthermore we verified the relevance of the content presented to the user and validated the acceptance of the way it was visualized .
2 . VISUALIZING SOCIAL AND BIB DATA Aligning event data ( COLINDA4 ) , social media data ( Twitter ) and publication data ( DBLP5 ) forms the foundation for combining recognized conferences tags and Twitter accounts in a single visualization . This is driven by the result that conferences and people can be accurately recognized and interlinked with corresponding authors [ 2 ] . In our approach , exploratory analysis methods are used to visualise the network around researchers . Our visualisation achieves aligning traditional research networks and networks as they emerge based on data from social media , providing a unique perspective of researchers multi modal interactions .
The screenshot in figure 1 depicts the network of a researcher . The scholar is centered with the blue node and around it are other
Figure 1 : The scholar is centered in the middle and the network is visualized in nodes around the central ( blue with picture ) node . related people ( the more co mentions , the more nearby they are positioned ) . The size of the scholar is in the middle between the
4http://colinda.org 5http://dblpuni trierde
1053 minimum and maximum size of a node . The more publications someone coauthored with the scholar , the bigger the node . After the researcher has signed in with their Twitter account on ResXplorer they can check recent interactions . A video is available at http://youtube/QopnPvWIFzw A tooltip displays facts about the collaborations ( eg co authorships and mentions ) , ie the number of mentions for a specific conference and the the number of copublications .
We interlinked research oriented datasets such as DBLP and COLINDA with data from social media containing information about conferences and social profiles of researchers . This last data was extracted on the fly just before generation of the visualization , this way the visualization always shows the latest results . We used common vocabularies ( such as FOAF6 , SIOC7 , SWRC8 , and the Dublin Core9 ) to annotate tweets from user profiles as Linked Data . We filtered the latest 200 tweets from the user ’s timeline and hometimeline , to find those containing matching hashtags corresponding with conference abbreviations ( provided by COLINDA ) . Furthermore , each user that is mentioned in a tweet or is the creator from a tweet is identified and linked as a person . For the interlinking , we used same techniques as the ones we used before to align scholar profiles with data from web collaboration tools [ 2 ] . After extracting and converting the tweets , we identified mentions and hashtags which we interlinked with the scholar ’s bibliographic record ( on DBLP ) . We matched each scholar together with one of their coauthors , if mentioned in a tweet , with the scholar ’s bibliographic record . The result is a graph of people containing links to the conferences and co occurrences of mentions .
3 . PRELIMINARY RESULTS
For the evaluation of the visualization we were interested in two aspects : relevance , by observing the precision and recall of the visualization , essential to validate that the presented information is sufficiently applicable to the user ; and acceptance , a user survey to verify that the visualization is usable , useful and might lead to more effective scholarly networking . 3.1 Relevance
To measure precision and recall we asked 10 researchers in computer science ( who visited and contributed to at least one computer science related conference in 2014 and use Twitter ) to complete a set of tasks where they indicated how they judged the visualized nodes . The visualization for all test users combined resulted in 217 recognized people and 29 recognized conferences . We got a high precision for conferences ( 0.97 ) , because almost all detected conferences were correct . There was still a low recall ( 0.56 ) , as many conferences were missing according to the users . We noted a moderate recall ( 0.83 ) , a relatively large number of people in the network ( co authors especially ) were missing because they were not mentioned together however users expected them in the visualization . The precision for recognizing people is high ( 0.92 ) : people who where connected indeed belonged to the researchers network or the users considered adding them to their network .
Noteworthy is that overall test users in total , discovered 19 ( out of 217 ) people they considered adding to their network . Not everybody was presented the way test users expected : they indicated that 37 people were missing . This implies that the coverage does not extend to people that do no have a Twitter account . However , users could increase the number of people in their visualization 6http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/ 7http://rdfs.org/sioc/spec/ 8http://ontoware.org/swrc/ 9http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi terms/ by actively tweeting and interacting with the people they consider relevant . This implies that for conferences where Twitter is not common , the results are definitely less interesting for the users . 3.2 Acceptance
We created a set of statements by applying the Technology Acceptance Model to measure effectiveness , usefulness and usability . The same 10 test users completed the survey by answering the questions on a Likert scale from 1 to 5 , indicating the degree to which users agree with the statement or find it likely . The users response is varied , but on average and the majority ( scores between 3 and 5 ) agreed or found most of the statements likely for all of the parameters measured . A small portion of the users were not immediately convinced by the usefulness ( scores between 1 and 3 ) , mainly because for them the visualization returned few results . Some indicated this was because they were only passively using Twitter , or Twitter was not used at all during the recent conferences they visited . 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We found that the information presented in the visualization has high precision , both for people and conferences . However , the recall is moderate for people and low for conferences . This is due to the many missing conferences , typically because Twitter was not used very often or because there was a lot of noise ( unrelated tweets ) preventing the detection of the relevant context hashtag . The strength of the visualization lies in its fairly effective mapping as perceived by users . The more scholars use Twitter and use it to interact with others in the context of conferences , the more relevant results they will see in the visualization . We consider to extend the number of tweets taken into consideration , to obtain larger networks , especially for users who tweet often . However , relevancy does not tell everything , there is also a serendipity factor involved , for example showing a few targeted people to users might lead to an overall better acceptance without requiring to increase the amount of relevant results presented . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . De Vocht , A . Dimou , J . Breuer , M . Van Compernolle ,
R . Verborgh , E . Mannens , P . Mechant , and R . Van de Walle . A visual exploration workflow as enabler for the exploitation of Linked Open Data . Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop Intelligent Exploration of Semantic Data , 2014 .
[ 2 ] L . De Vocht , S . Softic , E . Mannens , M . Ebner , and R . Van de Walle . Aligning web collaboration tools with research data for scholars . In Proceedings of the of the 23rd int’l conference on World Wide Web Companion , pages 1203–1208 , 2014 .
[ 3 ] L . De Vocht , D . Van Deursen , E . Mannens , and R . Van de Walle . A semantic approach to cross disciplinary research collaboration . iJET , 7(S2):22–30 , 2012 .
[ 4 ] M J Kraak . Exploratory visualization . In Encyclopedia of
GIS , pages 301–307 . Springer , 2008 .
[ 5 ] D . Laniado and P . Mika . Making sense of Twitter . In P . F . Patel Schneider , Y . Pan , P . Hitzler , P . Mika , L . Zhang , J . Z . Pan , I . Horrocks , and B . Glimm , editors , International Semantic Web Conference ( 1 ) , volume 6496 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 470–485 . Springer , 2010 . [ 6 ] S . Softic , M . Ebner , H . Mühlburger , T . Altmann , and
B . Taraghi . @twitter mining# microblogs using# semantic technologies . 6th Workshop on Semantic Web Applications and Perspectives , pages 1–9 , 2010 .
[ 7 ] A . F . Van Raan . Scientometrics : State of the art .
Scientometrics , 38(1):205–218 , 1997 .
1054
