Interconnecting and Enriching Higher Education Programs using Linked Data
Fouad Zablith
Olayan School of Business American University of Beirut
PO Box 11 0236 , Riad El Solh , 1107 2020
Beirut , Lebanon fouadzablith@aubedulb
ABSTRACT Online environments are increasingly used as platforms to support and enhance learning experiences . In higher education , students enroll in programs that are usually formed of a set of courses and modules . Such courses are designed to cover a set of concepts and achieve specific learning objectives that count towards the related degree . However we observe that connections among courses and the way they conceptually interlink are hard to exploit . This is normal as courses are traditionally described using text in the form of documents such as syllabi and course catalogs . We believe that linked data can be used to create a conceptual layer around higher education programs to interlink courses in a granular and reusable manner . We present in this paper our work on creating a semantic linked data layer to conceptually connect courses taught in a higher education program . We highlight the linked data model we created to be collaboratively extended by course instructors and students using a semantic Mediawiki platform . We also present two applications that we built on top of the data to ( 1 ) showcase how learning material can now float around courses through their interlinked concepts in eLearning environments ( we use moodle as a proof of concept ) ; and ( 2 ) to support the process of higher education program reviews .
Categories and Subject Descriptors E.1 [ Data ] : Data Structures—Graphs and networks ; J.1 [ Computer Applications ] : Administrative Data Processing—Education
General Terms Design , Management
Keywords Curriculum data management , education graph , learning analytics , learning environments , linked data , semantic web
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082741740
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the advancements of Internet and Web technologies , higher education is undergoing major changes in the way courses and programs are delivered . For example we are witnessing new teaching methodologies , the explosion of open education in the form of massive online courses ( MOOCs ) , and new means of interaction between teachers and students . This move from an offline delivery mode , to blended and online modes is opening up new opportunities for educators to explore .
In higher education , most of the programs are designed around courses that follow a certain sequence . This sequence is usually guided by the knowledge covered in certain courses , which are entry points to further knowledge covered in subsequent courses . Traditionally , courses’ syllabi and program catalogs are used as the main source of course description . The problem is that this description is usually at a high level , prohibiting course designers the ability to build a holistic representation of what a course covers , and how the knowledge in a course connects to the knowledge covered in other courses . This lack of knowledge representation creates boundaries around courses that are hard to break , even in online settings .
We observe that online environments are not being exploited to their full extent in higher education . We believe that the Web of data can be used to break the knowledge islands in courses delivered in higher education . We present in this paper our work on conceptually interlinking courses within a higher education program . We propose a data model that goes down to the concepts taught in courses , and we use the concepts to cross connect the courses and learning material . We use a semantic Mediawiki [ 6 ] platform as an entry point to collaboratively build this linked data graph around the higher education program . We implement this wiki environment at the Olayan School of Business of the American University of Beirut . We then exploit the linked data generated in two pilot applications : the first is used to demonstrate how the taught concepts in courses can be used to cross connect moodle pages and enrich them with relevant learning material ; while the second includes a new unprecedented view of how courses interlink and share concepts , which proved to be useful in the program review exercise of the school .
We present in Section2 an overview of the related work . Then we discuss the linked data model in Section 3 . We later present in Section 4 how we generated the linked data layer by focusing on the deployment of the semantic Mediawiki
711 and the steps we followed in building the knowledge graph . In Section 5 we highlight the two applications we developed on top of the data , followed by our concluding notes and future work in Section 6 .
2 . RELATED WORK
Linked data is getting increasingly used in various contexts , higher education is no exception . In their survey , Dietze et al . [ 7 ] highlight the growing adoption of linked data by various universities . Various platforms have emerged where linked data is made available for direct consumption and reuse . This includes for example the OU ’s linked open data platform ( http://dataopenacuk ) , the University of Muenster ( http://datauni muensterde ) , the University of Oxford ( http://dataoxacuk ) , the University of Southampton ( http://datasouthamptonacuk ) among others .
Methodologies and frameworks have been proposed to trans form existing data sources into linked data [ 2 , 8 , 9 ] . In this context , available organizational data was transformed , using pre programmed transformation patterns , into linked data . Following the trend and success of social and knowledge graphs functionalities provided by Facebook1 and Google2 , there are discussions around the value of having an education graph3 [ 4 ] . Heath et al . [ 4 ] proposed in their work to create an education graph by processing courses information and learning material from various universities in the UK . In their approach , they mainly rely on bibliographical data of material repositories to identify links to course resources [ 4 ] . In our context , the aim is to interlink courses within the same institution at the level of concepts covered in course topics . To our knowledge , there is no existing vocabulary that covers this granular information about courses information . To achieve our objective , we had to go at lower ( ie more specific ) conceptual levels by enabling users to have a direct impact on reshaping how courses interconnect among them and with learning resources . This controlled environment is necessary for aligning the conceptual coverage of courses delivered by more than one instructor . We also aimed to have direct input from students to connect to and expand the graph around the education program . For example when students find an interesting material online ( eg video or article ) relevant to a specific course , we wanted to enable them to connect it back to the course by extending the graph and creating the appropriate links to the course .
3 . LINKED DATA GRAPH
We present in this section the data model we adopted and followed to capture courses’ related information . We used the information included in the courses’ syllabi template as a guide to what information to represent . A typical course syllabus follows a predefined template , which includes the course details such as course number , description , prerequisites , textbook , topical coverage and others . Furthermore ,
1http://newsroomfbcom/News/562/ Introducing Graph Search Beta 2http://wwwgooglecom/insidesearch/features/ search/knowledge.html 3http://hackeducation.com/2011/11/10/ is there an education graph/ each course has well defined learning objectives . We visualize our proposed data model in Figure 1 .
We focus in this part on the description of specific aspects that guided the development of the elements that are not covered in the syllabi content . Based on the need for conceptually connecting courses ( ie beyond the analysis of topics in common ) , we captured in the graph concepts that are taught at the level of every course topic . This design offers many advantages . First we are getting a more granular view of what is covered in each course . Second , such concepts can be used as anchors between learning material and courses . This will enable course designers to know where exactly each piece of material fits in the course , and this enables learning material to float around not only course topics , but also around the program as a whole . In other words an interesting article that can be useful in one course , can also be used in other courses if the concepts are shared between the courses .
Following the linked data principles [ 3 ] , we aimed to reuse the available ontologies that are relevant to our context . For example the CourseWare ontology4 was reused to represent information related to course types , student interaction types , number of credits , assessment methods , and others . The AIISO5 was adopted to capture the courses’ unique codes . We have also used the Dublin Core Terms6 to represent generic properties such as descriptions . In cases where no vocabularies were found , we created a local vocabulary used in our context .
4 . LINKED DATA GENERATION
We followed a collaborative process to build the graph around the higher education program . This involved professors , students and program coordinators . As courses are delivered by different professors , we required to have a system that supports collaboration , through which each professor or involved person can see , expand and modify content as seen appropriate . Another requirement was to enable students to also enrich and add to the graph in a quick and easy way online material that they find interesting . In addition to the above , another needed feature was the ability to control linked data vocabularies . In this section , we discuss how we generated linked data around our higher education program using the semantic Mediawiki , and a semantic bookmarklet for linking online resources to the courses . 4.1 Semantic Mediawiki Deployment
We have put to the test a semantic Mediawiki available at : http://linkedaubedulb/collab For controlling the data generated and vocabularies used , we created several forms that are automatically loaded when new content is to be created . In the case of creating new courses for example , the course form7 is automatically loaded8 . The advantage of using such forms is that the user is guided around what
4http://coursewarerkbexplorercom/ 5http://vocab.org/aiiso/schema 6http://purl.org/dc/terms/ 7http://linkedaubedulb/collab/indexphp/ Special:FormEdit/Course/New_Course 8For a filled form example , check the Foundations of Information Systems course at the following link:http://linked . aubedulb/collab/indexphp?title=INFO200_ _ Foundations_of_Information_Systems&action=formedit
712 Figure 1 : The Linked Data Graph . fields to fill , and the vocabularies used can be predefined in the form when the RDF is generated .
Linking data is done by controlling the field content in the wiki . By adopting the wiki forms , the fields can guide users in reusing existing concepts from the wiki . For example when specifying the course prerequisite relation , the user is prompted with the list of courses available in the knowledge space that can be chosen from . This is a core feature used for the interlinking process . Another example is at the level of concepts covered in course topics . The same concept can be covered in one or more course topic , creating the links needed .
4.2 Steps Followed for Building the Linked
Data Graph
Building the linked data graph was done in three phases . In the first phase , course syllabi are used as entry points , where the high level course information is entered . In the second phase , textbook materials used in the course are processed by the teaching assistants ( TAs ) to identify the concepts covered in the course . In the third phase , new external materials are added to the graph by instructors and students , using a semantic bookmarklet .
Phase 1 : Creating Course Information . This phase was straight forward , as course syllabi follow a predefined structure . Some difficulties were faced at the level of identifying learning goals , as some of courses’ learning goals were described as text , without a clear structure . Another complexity at this level was that course learning goals were at two levels ( as depicted in Figure 1 ) : courses with specific learning goals , which are linked to a broader list of business learning goals identified within our School of Business .
Another challenge faced at this level is when the topics of courses change with time , due for example to changes in textbook editions , or in the delivery of content across semesters . For instance , in the Foundations of Information Systems course , the Social Media topic covered in the “ Experiencing MIS ” [ 5 ] textbook has changed from the 3rd to 4th edition . In this case , while the topical coverage has changed , some of the concepts that were covered in the previous edition were still there . We handled such cases by archiving topics and removing the link to the course . This way we were able to preserve the concepts related to the old topic , and reuse them if needed in the new topic . The evolution of changes at this level can be better managed in the future . One possible improvement can be done through capturing temporal changes , coupled with the type of changes performed ( eg adding or removing concepts from the concept graph ) . While tracing such evolution patterns can be done at the data entry level , a post analysis of changes occurring on the data graph can be possibly performed . Such features are beneficial for analytics applications , and can be further explored as part of our future research . We have processed so far the 19 core courses offered at the School of Business , leaving the elective courses to be represented at a later stage . Phase 2 : Identifying Concepts Taught in Courses . This phase was the most extensive and time consuming phase . TAs were trained to identify concepts covered in the topics of the courses . Based on the model we created ( cf . Figure 1 ) , concepts are linked to the topics of a course , and not directly to the course itself . This choice of design enables grouping concepts by topic , rather than by course . This has a practical implication in filtering concepts covered in specific topics ( as we discuss later in the paper when we in
CourseLearning MaterialSubjectDescriptionCourse Learning GoalBusiness Learning GoalDescriptionNumber of Credit HoursSpecific Learning ObjectiveDescriptionCourse DescriptionCourse NumberTaught ConceptTopicAssessment MethodInstructional MethodologyOrganizationRequired Academic StandingSophomoreJuniorSeniorLearning Material TypeArticleBookVideoDescriptionURLDescriptionWikipedia ReferenceDescriptionGrade PercentageDescriptionDescriptionhasLearningGoalhasCreditHourshasSubjecthasPerformanceEvaluationhasInstructionalMethodologyhasStandingPrerequisitehasSpecificLearningGoalcoversTopicisTaughtAthasDescriptionhasCourseNumberhasDescriptionfulfillsBusinessLearningGoalhasDescriptionhasDescriptionincludesTaughtConcepthasDescriptionhasWikipediaReferencehasDescriptionhasDescriptionhasGradePercentagehasDescriptioncoversConcepthasURLhasDescriptionhasLearningMaterialType713 tegrate data in moodle ) . Another implication is at the level of program analytics . Overlap among course topics can be highlighted easily , which proved to be useful for the program review and design exercises . At this level , the TAs were going into each topic covered in the textbook to identify the main concepts , adding definitions from the book , and linking to a Wikipedia9 reference when found . When applicable , the TAs were instructed to reuse existing concepts in the repository . The concepts field in the topic form automatically provides the TAs with the list of existing concepts to choose from . One challenge at this level is when concepts from different topics share the same name , however are semantically different . For example , the Optimization concept covered in the Managerial Decision Making ( ie operations research ) , is semantically different than the optimization concept in the Managerial Economics field . This is where Wikipedia is used as an external reference for disambiguating such cases . While linking to the concepts to Wikipedia entries is currently done manually , this task can be performed ( semi)automatically by querying DBpedia [ 1 ] and aiming to find overlap between the concepts’ definition and the description in the DBpedia page . In addition to text matching , the graph of the concepts can be used as a context to highlight the degree of matching . Then the user can browse the proposed matching concepts to select the most appropriate one . Currently concepts identified are not related through an explicit relation . We are planning to capture in the future relations such as sub class and prerequisite relations among concepts . This can also have an impact on the analysis of course sequencing in the program . So far we have identified 2680 concepts covered in the core courses of the School of Business .
Phase 3 : Semantically Anchoring Learning Material to Courses . While the previous phases were mainly focusing on reorganizing internal knowledge sources , this phase is more about linking new materials to the program , by anchoring them to concepts covered in courses . Here the aim was to enable students and instructors to link any interesting online material to the graph . We developed a simple bookmarklet that can be installed in any browser . When the user links a learning material , clicking the bookmarklet will automatically extract the page link , title and description . The user is then prompted to a page pointing to our wiki platform , where the concepts covered in the material can be entered by reusing existing concepts from the graph10 . As mentioned earlier , links between a learning material and the program are done through the concepts . This somehow enables educators and students to think more around the relevance of the material around concepts . For example we witnessed a student who bookmarked an article related to Big Data11 , relevant to the Foundations of Information Systems course she was enrolled in . While anchoring this article , she reused concepts12 from the graph that indirectly spread to two other courses . Starting from an information
9wwwwikipediaorg 10A video tutorial on how to use the bookmarklet can he accessed at : http://linkedaubedulb/docs/tutorial_ material_bookmark 11http://wwwcapgeminicom/resources/ the deciding factor big data decision making 12The full list of concepts highlighted by the student can be found in Figure 2 . systems’ related material , the student indirectly linked to a management and operations management courses .
5 . CONSUMPTION OF LINKED DATA
We present in this section two scenarios where we used the linked data generated . We accessed the data through the semantic search feature of the wiki endpoint that provides querying functionalities with different output formats . The queries were formulated and passed through php to the wiki query endpoint , and results were returned in JSON for processing . 5.1 Interlinking Course Learning Material on
Moodle
The data generated was used to enrich and connect the moodle course pages . Moodle is extensively used at the School of Business as a way to communicate course related information , and to interact around course deliverables .
The suggested design of moodle course pages at the American University of Beirut is to subdivide the page using the covered topics in the course , and add topic related material , assignments and others under each section . Course instructors design their own page at the beginning of each semester , or reuse an existing one if the course was already taught by the instructor . One trend that is observed is that instructors of the same course tend to share interesting materials that could be used in classrooms . However such insights are not usually captured , and have to be re shared whenever a new instructor teaches the course . In addition to sharing constraints , another bottleneck observed is that courses are designed ( even on moodle ) in isolation . However material relevant to some courses , can potentially be relevant to others ( as perceived with the Big Data article discussed earlier ) .
The aim of this application is to break out of the static and isolated nature of content shared within a course topic on moodle . The application offers the functionality to dynamically enrich moodle pages , without leaving it , with material relevant to the topics of the course .
A video tutorial was used as a guide for students and instructors to follow13 . This application can be launched by pressing a bookmarklet in the browser , and the following sequence of steps is performed :
1 . Scan the topics available in the moodle page : the executed code first will launch a javascript that will scan the moodle page for the topics header .
2 . Enable the buttons on the moodle page : the buttons are dynamically added to the moodle page , with the corresponding topic and course code embedded inside the button links .
3 . Send query to the wiki endpoint : when the user presses the button , a query is passed to the wiki endpoint with the topic and course code . As per our model in Figure 1 , the link between the course and material is done at two levels , through the topic and then through the taught concepts . So the query is built to first fetch the concepts covered in a topic , and then filter the learning material based on the concepts in focus .
13http://linkedaubedulb/docs/tutorial_extract_ material/
714 Figure 2 : Learning Material Cross Connecting Courses .
4 . Parse and visualize query results : the query results are returned in a JSON output , and parsed to identify the different types of related material ( so far we have video material , articles , and books ) . Finally the results are used to populate the page where users can read articles or play videos .
Figure 2 highlights how the Big Data article mentioned earlier is linked to various courses through the commonly taught concepts . This design can place the material automatically under the right topic on the moodle page . 5.2 Using Linked Data for Program Review
Another context where we used linked data was in the program review process at the School of Business . Every four years , the curriculum has to be reviewed for changes , where courses are studied to be added or removed from the program . Another task that is part of the review process is the course sequencing . To achieve this purpose , traditionally each course is studied on its own , and compared to other courses , and to the learning objectives in the program . However it was not possible to perform an in depth analysis beyond the syllabi content , and hence it was hard to know exactly what is covered in each course , and what are the concepts that are repeated across different courses .
Course mapping was highlighted to be one of the major tasks required for adjusting course sequencing and coverage . Our platform provided an unprecedented view of how courses overlap , going to the concept level . We deployed a visualization showing how courses connect through topics and taught concepts . This visualization is dynamically generated based on the wiki content . A visualization example around the Foundations of Informations Systems course can be accessed online at : http://linkedaubedulb/collab/ indexphp/Learning_Concepts_Graph This visualization is created using the HyperGraph tool14 . However this visualization proved to be a bit complex to analyze in a systematic way .
14http://hypergraphsourceforgenet
Another view that we built on top of the data was a tabular representation of the courses , along with the topics and overlapping concepts . The table can be accessed online15 , and we show part of the table in Figure 3 . The users were able to see the list of courses ( course codes are on the top row of the table ) , and in each row we present the list of topics and their corresponding concepts . The “ X ” marks the number or occurrences of this concept in the whole program . When more than one “ X ” is in the cell , the user can roll the mouse over the table cell to see where this concept occurs in other courses . For example Figure 3 indicates that the concept Audit is mentioned in the Accounting 210 course , and in the Marketing 222 course . We also fetch the topics where the concepts are covered . This tool proved to be useful in the program review process , as it enabled the program coordinators and instructors to highlight the parts of the courses that need adjustment .
6 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We presented in this paper our work on connecting higher education program information at a conceptual level using linked data . The data model we designed captures and connects courses information , going down to the topical coverage and concepts taught . The concepts are then used as anchors between learning materials and the higher education program .
We highlighted our continuous work on collaboratively building this linked data graph by involving people around a semantic Mediawiki . The wiki offers a platform where instructors can reach a consensus around what is taught in their courses , by having a controlled environment to manage the reuse of existing knowledge and appropriate vocabularies for creating linkages .
One advantage of linked data is the ease of building applications that make use of the data generated . In our work we showed how we can bring learning materials in the context of a course , and place them under its corresponding topic .
15http://linkedaubedulb/apps/tablebrowser/table php
InformationSystemsManagementOperations ManagementBigDataOperations DecisionsSocial MediaAutomated ProcessOrganizational SilosDecisionInternet ServicesBusiness Process ReengineeringIntuitive Decision MakingLearning MaterialTaught ConceptsMoodle Courses715 Figure 3 : View of the Table Listing Concepts Covered in Courses with Overlap Detection .
[ 2 ] M . d’Aquin . Linked data for open and distance learning . Commonwealth of learning report , 2012 .
[ 3 ] T . Heath and C . Bizer . Linked Data : Evolving the Web into a Global Data Space . 2011 .
[ 4 ] T . Heath , R . Singer , N . Shabir , C . Clarke , and
J . Leavesley . Assembling and applying an education graph based on learning resources in universities . In Linked Learning ( LILE ) Workshop , 2012 .
[ 5 ] D . Kroenke , D . Bunker , and D . N . Wilson .
Experiencing mis . Prentice Hall , 2010 .
[ 6 ] M . Krotzsch , D . Vrandecic , and M . Volkel . Semantic mediawiki . In The Semantic Web ISWC 2006 , pages 935–942 . Springer , 2006 .
[ 7 ] Stefan Dietze , Salvador Sanchez Alonso , Hannes Ebner ,
Hong Qing Yu , Daniela Giordano , Ivana Marenzi , and Bernardo Pereira Nunes . Interlinking educational resources and the web of data . Program , 47(1):60–91 , Feb . 2013 .
[ 8 ] F . Zablith , M . d’Aquin , S . Brown , and
L . Green Hughes . Consuming linked data within a large educational organization . 2011 .
[ 9 ] F . Zablith , M . Fernandez , and M . Rowe . Production and consumption of university linked data . Interactive Learning Environments , 23(1):55–78 , 2015 .
The use of taught concepts as anchors between the materials and courses gave us a great flexibility in fetching material that stretch the boundaries of courses delivery , which can improve the learning experience of students and highlight how courses cross connect in the degree program they are enrolled in .
Another scenario where we applied the use of linked data is at the level of program analysis and review . Program designers at the School of Business were offered a unique view that was not possible before on how courses conceptually connect . They were able to see how concepts are repeated in courses , enabling them to make better decisions around required changes in the program .
We believe that this work is only a glimpse of what can be done with this new linked data layer . We are planning to evaluate the impact of having such data layer in learning environments through a guided user study coupled with evaluation measures . We are currently working on capturing social interactions around our education program . By merging the social and education graphs , we anticipate that we will be able to granularly analyze how teachers and students interact around concepts delivered during their higher education journeys . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the University Research Board grant at the American University of Beirut . I would like to thank my colleagues and students who contributed to the extension of the graph through the wiki , and supported me in the implementation of the tools . I would also like to thank the students who have used the bookmarklet to bookmark the interesting materials that triggered invaluable insights and observations .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] C . Bizer , J . Lehmann , G . Kobilarov , S . Auer ,
C . Becker , R . Cyganiak , and S . Hellmann . DBpedia a crystallization point for the web of data . Web Semantics : Science , Services and Agents on the World Wide Web , 7(3):154–165 , 2009 .
716
