Pushing the Limits of Instance Matching Systems :
A Semantics Aware Benchmark for Linked Data
Tzanina Saveta
ICS FORTH , Greece jsaveta@icsforthgr Irini Fundulaki
ICS FORTH , Greece fundul@icsforthgr
Evangelia Daskalaki ICS FORTH , Greece eva@icsforthgr Melanie Herschel
IPVS University of Stuttgart ,
Germany melanie.herschel@ ipvsuni stuttgartde
Giorgos Flouris ICS FORTH , Greece fgeo@icsforthgr Axel Cyrille
Ngonga Ngomo
IFI/AKSW
University of Leipzig , Germany ngonga@informatik . uni leipzig.de
ABSTRACT The architectural choices behind the Data Web have led to the publication of large interrelated data sets that contain different descriptions for the same real world objects . Due to the mere size of current online datasets , such duplicate instances are most commonly detected ( semi )automatically using instance matching frameworks . Choosing the right framework for this purpose remains tedious , as current instance matching benchmarks fail to provide end users and developers with the necessary insights pertaining to how current frameworks behave when dealing with real data .
In this poster , we present the Semantic Publishing Instance Matching Benchmark ( SPIMBENCH ) which allows the benchmarking of instance matching systems against not only structure based and value based test cases , but also against semantics aware test cases based on OWL axioms . SPIMBENCH features a scalable data generator and a weighted gold standard that can be used for debugging instance matching systems and for reporting how well they perform in various matching tasks .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Instance matching ( IM ) , refers to the problem of identifying instances that describe the same real world object [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ] . For Linked Data , novel IM techniques have recently been proposed [ 6 , 7 ] , surveyed in [ 8 ] .
With the increasing adoption of Semantic Web Technologies and the publication of large interrelated RDF data sets and ontologies that form the Linked Data Cloud1 , it is crucial to develop IM techniques adapted to this setting that is characterized by an unprecedented number of sources across
1http://linkeddata.org/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742729 which to detect matches , a high degree of heterogeneity both at the schema and instance level , and rich semantics that accompany schemas defined in terms of expressive languages such as OWL , OWL 2 , and RDFS .
This paper presents the Semantic Publishing Instance Matching Benchmark [ 9 ] , SPIMBENCH for short , a novel IM benchmark for the assessment of IM techniques for RDF data with an associated schema . Essentially , SPIMBENCH proposes and implements : ( i ) a set of test cases based on transformations that distinguish different types of matching entities , ( ii ) a scalable data generator , ( iii ) a gold standard documenting the matches that IM systems should find , and ( iv ) evaluation metrics .
SPIMBENCH extends the state of the art IM benchmarks for RDF data in three main aspects : it allows for systematic scalability testing , supports a wider range of test cases implemented by means of transformations and provides an enriched gold standard . SPIMBENCH is the first benchmark to support semantics aware test cases that go beyond the standard RDFS constructs . More precisely , it is the first benchmark to support the OWL constructs for instance ( in)equality , class and property equivalence and disjointness , property constraints , as well as complex class definitions . SPIMBENCH also supports simple test cases ( implemented using the aforementioned transformations applied on different triples pertaining to the same instance ) , as well as complex test cases ( implemented by combinations of individual transformations on the same triple ) .
2 . SPIMBENCH 2.1 Transformations
In SPIMBENCH we propose a set of value based , structure based , and semantics aware test cases , as well as simple and complex ones .
Value based test cases refer to scenarios implemented using transformations on instance data type properties and refer to mainly typographical errors and the use of different data formats . Each transformation takes as input a data type property as specified in SPIMBENCH ’s schema and a severity that determines how important this modification is . We used SWING [ 10 ] to implement the supported transformations , which are a superset of those considered in the
105 state of the art IM benchmarks . Structure based test cases are based on the use of transformations applied on properties of instances such as splitting , aggregation , deletion , and addition .
In addition , SPIMBENCH is the first benchmark to support semantics aware test cases that go beyond the standard RDFS constructs . These are primarily used to examine if the matching systems take into consideration OWL and OWL 2 axioms to discover matches between instances that can be found only when considering schema information . The axioms that we consider in SPIMBENCH are : • instance ( in)equality ( owl:sameAs , owl:differentFrom ) • class and property equivalence ( owl:equivalentClass , • class and property disjointness
( owl:disjointWith , owl:AllDisjointClasses , owl:propertyDisjointWith , owl:AllDisjointProperties ) • class and property hierarchies ( rdfs:subClassOf , rdfs:• property constraints ( owl:FunctionalProperty , owl:In• complex class definitions ( owl:unionOf , owl:intersec owl:equivalentProperty ) subPropertyOf ) verseFunctionalProperty ) tionOf )
Furthermore , in SPIMBENCH we consider combinations of the aforementioned test cases . We distinguish between simple test cases based on value , structural and semanticsaware test cases , applied on different triples pertaining to one instance . We also consider complex test cases that are based on combinations of test cases applied to a single triple . A sample of generated datasets can be found at [ 9 ] , and are omitted due to lack of space . 2.2 Data Generation
The SPIMBENCH data extends the one proposed by the Semantic Publishing Benchmark ( SPB ) [ 11 ] and produces RDF descriptions of creative works that are valid instances of classes of the ontologies provided by BBC . This class collects all RDF descriptions of creative works ( also called journalistic assets ) created by the publisher ’s editorial team . In generating test datasets to be used for IM , we first generate a synthetic source dataset , ensuring that this dataset does not contain any matches itself . Next , we generate matches and non matches to entities of the source dataset to cover the test cases described above . As a result , we obtain a synthetic target dataset that contains matches that IM methods should identify . Our data generation process allows the generation of arbitrary large datasets , thus supporting the evaluation of both the scalability and the matching quality of an IM system . 2.3 Gold Standard
To improve the debugging of instance matching tools and algorithms , we assign weights to each pair of instances that should be matched . In essence , the weight of a match ( ui , u i ) quantifies how easy it is to detect this match automatically . We adopt an information theoretical approach to compute the weight of ( ui , u i ) by measuring the information loss that results from applying transformations to the source data to generate the target data . The basic idea behind our approach is to apply multi relational learning ( MRL ) L to the input knowledge base K and the transformed knowledge base K . By comparing the description of ui in L(K ) i in L(K ) , we should then be able to quantify how and u much information was lost through the transformation of K to K . We implement this insight in the current version of SPIMBENCH by using RESCAL [ 12 ] as MRL approach . 3 . FUTURE WORK
We ran our benchmark against a well known IM system ( LogMap [ 13 ] ) which generally performed well , except in cases where multiple semantics aware transformations exist ( see [ 9 ] for details ) ; in the future , we plan to run the benchmark in more state of the art IM systems . We are currently working on a domain independent instance matching test case generator for Linked Data , whose aim is to take any RDF dataset as source and to produce a target dataset that will implement the test cases discussed earlier . We are also studying how we can define more sophisticated metrics that take into account the difficulty ( weight ) of the correctly identified matches , to be used in tandem with the standard precision and recall metrics .
Acknowledgements . This work was partially supported by the FP7 European Project Linked Data Benchmark Council ( LDBC ) ( #317548 ) . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] I . Bhattacharya and L . Getoor . Entity resolution in graphs . Mining Graph Data . Wiley and Sons , 2006 .
[ 2 ] A . K . Elmagarmid , PG Ipeirotis , and VS Verykios . Duplicate Record Detection : A Survey . TKDE , 19(1 ) , 2007 .
[ 3 ] C . Li , L . Jin , and S . Mehrotra . Supporting efficient record linkage for large data sets using mapping techniques . In WWW , 2006 .
[ 4 ] J . Noessner , M . Niepert , C . Meilicke , and
H . Stuckenschmidt . Leveraging Terminological Structure for Object Reconciliation . In ESWC , 2010 .
[ 5 ] P . Christen . Data Matching Concepts and
Techniques for Record Linkage , Entity Resolution , and Duplicate Detection . Data Centric Systems and Applications . Springer , 2012 .
[ 6 ] R . Isele , A . Jentzsch , and C . Bizer . Silk Server
Adding missing Links while consuming Linked Data . In COLD , 2010 .
[ 7 ] A C Ngonga Ngomo and Soren Auer . LIMES A
Time Efficient Approach for Large Scale Link Discovery on the Web of Data . IJCAI , 2011 .
[ 8 ] K . Stefanidis , V . Efthymiou , M . Herschel , and
V . Christophides . Entity resolution in the web of data . In WWW , Companion Volume , 2014 .
[ 9 ] SPIMBENCH description . Available at http://wwwicsforthgr/isl/spimbench/
[ 10 ] A . Ferrara , S . Montanelli , J . Noessner , and
H . Stuckenschmidt . Benchmarking Matching Applications on the Semantic Web . In ESWC , 2011 . [ 11 ] I . Fundulaki , N . Martinez , R . Angles , B . Bishop , and V . Kotsev . D222 Data Generator . Technical report , Linked Data Benchmark Council , 2013 . Available at http://ldbceu/results/deliverables
[ 12 ] D . Krompass , M . Nickel , X . Jiang , and V . Tresp .
Non Negative Tensor Factorization with RESCAL . In TML , 2013 .
[ 13 ] E . Jim´enez Ruiz and B . C . Grau . Logmap :
Logic based and scalable ontology matching . In ISWC , 2011 .
106
