Pivotality of Nodes in Reachability Problems Using
Avoidance and Transit Hitting Time Metrics
Golshan Golnari , Dan Boley ,
Computer Science & Engineering
University of Minnesota Minneapolis , MN , USA
[ golnari , boley]@csumnedu
Yanhua Li , and Zhi Li Zhang
Computer Science & Engineering
University of Minnesota Minneapolis , MN , USA
[ yanhua , zhzhang]@csumnedu
ABSTRACT Reachability is crucial to many network operations in various complex networks . More often than not , however , it is not sufficient simply to know whether a source node s can reach a target node t in the network . Additional information associated with reachability such as how long or how many possible ways node s may take to reach node t . In this paper we analyze another piece of important information associated with reachability – which we call pivotality . Pivotality captures how pivotal a role that a node k or a subset of nodes S may play in the reachability from node s to node t in a given network . We propose two important metrics , the avoidance and transit hitting times , which extend and generalize the classical notion of hitting times . We show these metrics can be computed from the fundamental matrices associated with the appropriately defined random walk transition probability matrices and prove that the classical hitting time from a source to a target can be decomposed into the avoidance and transit hitting times with respect to any third node . Through simulated and real world network examples , we demonstrate that these metrics provide a powerful ranking tool for the nodes based on their pivotality in the reachability .
Categories and Subject Descriptors G22 [ Graph Theory ] : Network problems , Graph algorithms
Keywords Reachability ; Pivotality ; Hitting time
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Reachability is crucial in any type of complex networks , be them communication and computer networks , power grids , transportation networks or social networks [ 15][8][12 ] . More often than not , however , it is not sufficient simply to know that a node s can reach another node t in the network . Additional information associated with reachability such as how long ( eg , in terms of number of intermediate nodes to be traversed or some other measures of time or cost ) or how many possible ways ( eg , in terms of paths ) for node s to reach node t . Such information is essential for selecting
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082744713 paths for packet routing or information/commodity delivery , flow scheduling , power management , traffic control , load balancing and so forth in communication and computer networks , power grids and transportation networks . In social networks , such information provides a measure of the strength of social ties between nodes and the role of nodes in these networks .
The shortest path distance is a commonly used metric to measure the reachability from a source s to a target t . Its drawback lies in that it fails to capture the “ path diversity ” between the two nodes . Information about path diversity is important for load balancing , resilient routing and other network operations , and more broadly , for analyzing the overall network robustness . Path diversity can perhaps be best captured via random walks on the ( weighted , directed or undirected ) graph associated with the underlying network : The hitting time ( sometimes referred to as the random walk distance ) , Hst , measures the expected numbers of steps it takes for a random walker starting from node s to reach node t for the first time . This metric is in general asymmetric , Hst = Hts , even the underlying graph is undirected . The ( symmetric ) commute time , defined as Cst = Hst + Hts , is also known as the effective resistance distance due to its connection to electric resistive networks [ 3 ] .
In this paper , we analyze another piece of important information associated with reachability – which we call pivotality . Pivotality captures how pivotal a role that a third node k or a subset of nodes S may play in the reachability from node s to node t in a given network by quantifying how many ( and how long ) paths from s to t go through k or S , and how many do not . Such information is critical for load balancing , protection routing , fast rerouting , robustness analysis and other network operations in various types of complex networks . For example , k can represent a “ middlebox ” ( eg , firewall ) and S a set of application proxy servers in the cloud ; one would like to quantify the overhead incurred for routing traffic from s via k or S to t . Likewise , k or S can represent a single or multiple congested or failed nodes , or potentially compromised , vulnerable or untrustworthy nodes ; one would like to quantify the overhead incurred for routing traffic from s to t by completely bypassing k or S .
For these purposes , we introduce two inter related metrics : avoidance and transit hitting times which extends and generalizes the classical notion of hitting times : the avoidance hitting time from a node s to another node t with respect to k or S is the expected number of steps it takes for a random walker starting from node s to first hit node t without ever hitting node k or any node in S ; whereas the transit hitting time from a node s to another node t with respect to k or S is the expected number of steps it takes for a random walker starting from node s to first hit node k or any node in S and then hit node t for the first time . We establish that both avoidance and transit hitting times can be computed from the fundamental matrices associated with the appropriately defined random walk transition probability matrices . We further show that with respect to any third node k , hitting time Hst can be decomposed into the avoidance hitting time and transit hitting time with respect to k . By exploiting relationships between the hitting time and avoidance/transit hitting times , we quantify the role and impact of node k in the connectivity/reachability from node s to t . Finally we use several simulated and real world network examples to illustrate the advantages and utility of avoidance and transit hitting times , especially in comparison with existing metrics proposed in the literature .
2 . RELATED WORK
The notions of centrality and betweenness have been widely studied in the literature to capture various roles that nodes play in social and other complex networks . These metrics are commonly defined in terms of the shortest paths between pairs of nodes . For example , in social network analysis the ( shortest path ) centrality of a node s is the average ( shortest path ) distance from node s to all other nodes in the network . Freeman ’s well known ( shortest path ) betweenness [ 6 ] counts the number of shortest paths ( from any source s to any target t ) that pass through a given node k . Hence larger the betweenness value of a node k , more vital it is to the reachability to many pairs of nodes in the network . As mentioned earlier , a main drawback of metrics defined solely in terms of shortest paths is that it does not capture the path diversity in the network . For this reason , various centrality measures based on random walks on graphs have been proposed in the literature . By exploiting the connection between random walks and current flows in electrical resistive networks [ 3 ] , Newman [ 11 ] proposes a random walk betweenness ( or current flow betweenness ) metric which measures the total sum of current flows passing through a given node k from all sources to all sinks ( “ targets ” ) in a network . Fouss et al . [ 5 ] use the hitting time ( and commute time ) associated with random walks on graphs as the measure of similarity between nodes in a recommendation system application . Sarkar et al . [ 14 ] develop a fast proximity search in large graphs by means of hitting time . Chen et al . [ 2 ] present a clustering algorithm via hitting time on directed graphs . All of these studies are confined to applying the classical hitting time to solving graph/network problems .
Closely related to what we study in this paper , Ranjan and Zhang [ 13 ] introduce the notion of ( forced ) detour cost of a random walker from a source s to a target t with respect to a third node k , which is := Hsk + Hkt − Hst . Namely , the ( forced ) detour defined as ∆H(k ) st cost is the additional steps incurred when a random walker starts at source node s and is forced to first visit the third node k , and then starts from node k to reach target node t vs . the number of the steps it takes starting at source node s and hitting target node t for the first time . Ranjan and Zhang show [ 13 ] that aggregated over all pairs of sources and targets , ∑s ∑t ∆H(k ) kk is the diagonal entries of L+ , the Penrose Moore pseudo inverse of the graph Laplacian L = D−A , where A = [ ai j ] is the adjacency matrix of a graph ( network ) and D = diag[di ] , di = ∑ j ai j , is the diagonal degree matrix . Based on this ( forced ) detour cost as well as several other interpretations of the diagonal entries L+ kk of L+ , Ranjan and Zhang advocate C∗(k ) := 1/L+ kk as a new node centrality measure – referred to as the structural or topological centrality , and demonstrate that C∗(k ) := 1/L+ kk indeed better captures the structural/topological roles that node k plays in a network than existing centrality metrics , in particular in terms of their roles in the overall network robustness . Motivated by the results in [ 13 ] , in this paper we aim to provide a more precise characterization of how pivotal a role a third node k may play in the random walks from a source kk . Here L+ st = L+
Table 1 : List of Notations
F ( j ) F ( j ) im
F ( S ) F ( S ) im Q(¯k ) i j Hi j Hi,S H(¯k ) i j H(ˇk ) i j
Fundamental matrix for target j The im th entry of Fundamental matrix F ( j ) . It represents the expected number of passages through node m , starting from i and before hitting j Fundamental matrix for a target set S , say , S = { j,k} The im th entry of the fundamental matrix F ( S ) The probability of hitting j before k when starting from i Hitting time from i to j . It is i j th entry of the hitting time matrix H Hitting time from i to a target set S , say , S = { j,k} Avoidance hitting time from i to j conditioned on avoiding k Transit hitting time from i to j conditioned on transiting k node s to a target node t by probabilistically quantifying the number of paths from source s to target t that circumvent node k vs . those that traverse node k that the random walker is likely to take . This leads us to introduce two inter related metrics , avoidance and transit hitting times , to measure the pivotality of node k in the random walks from source s to target t .
3 . THEORY OF AVOIDANCE AND TRAN
SIT HITTING TIMES
In this section , we first provide an overview of the existing theory on random walks on a general weighted and directed networks and introduce the classical notions of hitting and commute times . We then define the new notions of avoidance and transit hitting time metrics and demonstrate how they can be computed . The section culminates with the Hitting Time Decomposition Theorem . 3.1 Background and Notations
A network can be abstractly modeled as a weighted and directed graph , denoted by G = ( V,E,A ) . Here V is the set of nodes in the network such as routers or switches in a communication network or users in a social network ; E is the set of ( directed ) edges representing the ( physical or logical ) connections between nodes ( eg , a communication link from a node i to a node j ) or entity relations ( eg , follower followee relation between two users ) . The affinity ( or adjacency ) matrix A = [ ai j ] is assumed to be nonnegative , ie , ai j ≥ 0 , where ai j > 0 if and only if i , j ∈ E . We remark that here ai j captures certain “ affinity ” or “ closeness ” from node i to node j , ie , the communication capacity from node i to node j , or strength of social tie between node i and node j . Hence larger ai j is , “ closer ” node i is to node j – in other words , A can be viewed as a “ similarity ” matrix . This is in contrast to a “ cost ” or “ distance ” matrix C = [ ci j ] that is sometimes used to denote link weights , where larger ci j is , “ farther away ” ( or “ dissimilar ” ) node i is from node j . ( One can easily convert a cost matrix C to an affinity matrix A , eg , by setting ai j = 1/ci j . ) Throughout the paper , we assume that networks under consideration are strongly connected , namely , there is at least one path from any node i to any other node j . Given G , a random walk on G is a Markov chain on G given by the transition probability matrix P = D−1A , where D = diag[di ] and di = ∑ j ai j ( di is often referred to as the ( out )degree of node i and D is the ( diagonal ) degree matrix ) . Given a random walk starting at node s , at each step i the random walker picks an out going edge . The hitting time Hst is derandomly with probability Pi j = fined as the expected time ( or number of steps ) it takes for a random walk starting at node s to reach ( “ hit ” ) node t for the first time . Intuitively , the larger Hst is , the farther node t is located from node s . Hitting times can be computed directly using the fundamental ma ai j ∑ j ai j trix F [ 3 ] for absorbing Markov chains . Let n =|V| . For each j ∈V , we use P| j to denote the ( n− 1)× ( n− 1 ) sub matrix after deleting the row and column j from the transition probability matrix P . Then the fundamental matrix F ( j ) is defined as F ( j ) := ( I− P| j)−1 . It can be proved that the ik th entry of the matrix F ( j ) , F ( j ) ik , yields the expected number of passages through node k for a random walk starting at node i and before hitting j . Then the hitting time from source i to target j is given by Hi j = ∑m F ( j ) im , namely the sum over the expected number of passages through all the other nodes before hitting the target [ 3 ] . More generally , we can define the hitting time from a source node i to a set of target nodes S , denoted by Hi,S . Hi,S is defined as the expected number of steps for a random walk starting at node i and hitting one of the nodes in S for the first time . For example , for S = { j,k} , Hi,{ j,k} is the expected number of steps for a random walk starting at node i and hitting either j or k for the first time . Again we can compute Hi,S using an appropriately defined fundamental matrix . Let P|S denote the ( n−|S|)× ( n−|S| ) submatrix after deleting the rows and columns corresponding to the indices j ∈ S from P , and define F ( S ) := ( I − P|S)−1 . Hence Hi,S = ∑m F ( S ) im . Table 1 summarizes some of the notations used in this paper . 3.2 Avoidance and Transit Hitting Times
We are now in position to introduce two inter related metrics , avoidance and transit hitting times by extending and generalizing the classical notion of hitting times . Consider a target set S consisting of two target nodes j and k . Recall that the hitting time Hi,S = Hi,{ j,k} is the expected number of steps for a random walk starting at node i to first hit either target j or target k . Since both target nodes j and k are absorbing , there are only two possible ways for the random walk to hit the target set S = { j,k} : either the random walk first hits node j without ever hitting node k or it first hits node k without ever hitting node j . We use Q(¯k ) to dei j note the probability that the random walk first hits target node j . It is not too hard to see that Q(¯k ) Pm j . Then the probability that the random walk first hits target node k is then given by Q( ¯j ) Pmk . Using these relations , we can analyze the ( random ) paths taken by a random walk starting at node i and first hitting target node j while avoiding a particular third node k and quantify the probability such paths are taken by the random walker . This leads us to define the notion of avoidance hitting time . For any third node k , the avoidance hitting time H(¯k ) is i j the expected number of steps taken by a random walk which starts at node i and hits node j for the first time while without ever hitting node k in between ( ie , by always avoiding node k on its way to target node j ) . We have the following theorem , the proof of which is delegated to the Appendix . i j = ∑m F ( { j,k} ) i j = ∑m F ( { j,k} ) ik = 1 − Q(¯k ) im im
THEOREM 1 . ( Avoidance Hitting Time )
Hitting time from node i to node j conditioned on avoiding node k can be computed using the following equation :
H(¯k ) i j =
∑m F ( {k , j} ) im Q(¯k ) i j
Q(¯k ) m j
.
( 1 )
Closely related to the avoidance hitting time is the notion of transit hitting time . For any third node k , the transit hitting time H(ˇk ) is i j the expected number of steps taken by a random walk which starts at node i and always traverse node k before hits target node j for the first time . Using the avoidance hitting time , we can express H(ˇk ) i j as
Figure 1 : Network Example 1 follows :
H(ˇk ) i j = H( ¯j ) ik + Hk j .
( 2 ) Using the avoidance and transit hitting times , we can now divide the paths ( or walks ) between a source node i to a target node j into two groups with respect to an arbitrary third node k : those paths that exclude or avoid node k and those that include or transit node k . The probability that a random walk takes either a path/walk from the first group vs . that from the second group is given by Q(¯k ) i j and Q( ¯j ) ik . This yields the following Hitting Time Decomposition Theorem , the proof of which can be found in the Appendix .
THEOREM 2 . ( Hitting Time Decomposition )
The hitting time from node i to node j can be decomposed into an “ avoidance" hitting time component and a “ transit" hitting time component with respect to any node k as follows :
Hi j = Q(¯k ) i j H(¯k ) i j + Q( ¯j ) ik H(ˇk ) i j
.
( 3 )
The transit and avoidance hitting times can be generalized to an arbitrary ( sub)set of nodes , H( ˇS1 ) , and combined , H( ˇS1 , ¯S2 ) , where the last term represents the hitting time from node i to node j conditioned on traversing any node in S1 while avoiding all nodes in S2 . Due to space limitation , we will not elaborate here ; more details can be found in [ 7 ] .
, H( ¯S2 ) i j i j i j
4 . NODE PIVOTALITY IN NETWORK REACH
ABILITY
In this section we examine and quantify how pivotal a role a node k plays in reachability from a source node s to a target node t using our proposed avoidance and transit hitting metrics . In particular , we propose the avoidance transit hitting time pivotality metric ( ATH ) . For a given node k with respect to a pair of source and target nodes s and t , it is defined as follows : eAT H ( k ) = Hst − H(ˇk )
( 4 ) Note that if all paths from node s to node t go through a node k∗ , then eAT H ( k∗ ) = 0 . In this case , k∗ is the most “ pivotal ” point of any path from s to t in that all paths rely on k∗ . We claim that in such a case , for any other node k , eAT H ( k ) ≤ 0 ; due to space limitation , we will omit the proof here . In general , eAT H ( k ) can be either positive , indicating that paths going through node k are overall shorter than an “ average ” path from node s to node t ; or negative , indicating that paths going through node k are overall longer that an “ average ” path from node s to node t . st = Hst − ( H(¯t ) sk + Hkt ) .
For comparison , we also consider other metrics proposed in the literature . We define the shortest path pivotality metric ( SHP ) to measure the pivotality of node k using the shortest paths only : eSHP(k ) = shpst − ( shpsk +shpkt ) . The maximum flow pivotality metric ( MF ) , eMF ( k ) , measures the amount of the maximum flow from s to t that goes through node k in a flow network , where the weight of edges
Figure 3 : Network example 3
Table 2 : Pivotality metrics in Network Example 1 : source node 1 and target node 4 nodes eSHP eMF eCH eAT H
2 1 0.5 3.5 0.5
3 1 0.5 3.5 0.5
5 0 0.5 3.5 0.5 ity as it enhances the overall “ capacity ” from node s to node t ; however larger L2 will diminish its pivotality as longer paths increase the “ cost ” of using these parallel paths . Despite such intuitions regarding the relative pivotality values of node k1 and node k2 , if L2 > 2 the SHP pivotality metric will always rank node k1 higher than k2 independently of N2 ( for L2 = 2 gives the same ranking to them ) . Whereas , as long as N2 > 1 , the MF pivotality metric will always rank node k2 higher than node k1 independently of L2 . Hence both these two metrics fail to capture the differing roles of node k2 with varying N2 and L2 . To evaluate the performance of CH and ATH pivotality metrics in capturing the differing roles of node k2 with varying N2 and L2 , some example values are shown in Table 3 . Based on these results , the CH pivotality metric ranks node k2 higher than node k1 as long as N2 > 1 , and ranks them the same when N2 = 1 no matter how large is L2 , behaving the same as the MF pivotality metric . However , the ATH pivotality metric ranks successfully node k1 higher than node k2 when N2 is close to 1 and L2 is quite larger than 2 . the term H(¯t ) sk
The subtle difference in the behaviors of the CH and ATH pivotality metrics lies in the term Hsk in eq.(5 ) vs . in eq(4 ) Namely , in accounting for the ( forced ) detour cost , the CH method allows and includes paths/walks from the source node s to the third node k that may have already traversed the target node t ; in network example 2 , increasing L2 has a destructive effect on the CH pivotality metric of k1 by accounting the paths passing through t before hitting k1 , such as the walk ( s−k2−t−s−k2−t−−s−k1 ) , and increasing the term Hsk1 in eq.(5 ) as the result . In contrast , the ATH method excludes such paths/walks in accounting for the detour cost . As a result , the ATH provides a more precise quantification of the detour cost when a random walker is “ forced ” to transit a third node k , and thereby how pivotal a role node k plays in the reachability from a source to a target .
The ATH metric allows us to identify nodes that are “ superfluous ” with respect to the reachability of a source to a target . This can be best illustrated by the two simple examples shown in Fig 3 . In both examples , consider node 1 as the source and node 2 as the target . It is obvious that node 3 is “ superfluous ” with respect to this source target pair in that node 3 plays no part in the reachability from node 1 to node 2 . In other words , if node 3 fails or is removed from the network , the reachability from node 1 to node 2 ( and the associated “ capacity ” ) is not affected at all . This can be captured by the fact that in both networks in Figs . 3 ( a ) and ( b ) , the
Figure 2 : Network Example 2 indicate their capacity . The ( classical ) hitting time pivotality metric ( CH ) is defined as the negative of the ( forced ) detour cost defined in [ 13 ] , eCH ( k ) := −∆H(k ) st = Hst − ( Hsk + Hkt ) .
( 5 ) Notice the similarity between eAT H ( k ) and eCH ( k ) , except the terms H(¯t ) sk and Hsk . Due to the triangle inequality of the shortest path distance and the hitting time , eSHP(k ) ≤ 0 and eCH ( k ) ≤ 0 whereas by definition , eMF ( k ) ≥ 0 for all k and all pairs of source and target nodes , s and t . Despite these differences , in terms of ranking of nodes based on their pivotality using each metric , what matters is their relative values : as long as e(k1 ) < e(k2 ) , node k2 is more “ pivotal ” than k1 in terms of reachability from s to t . 4.1 Understanding Pivotality Metrics : Exam ples
Using several simple network examples , in this section we illustrate and compare the behavior of the pivotality metrics defined above . First consider the simple network example shown in Fig 1 where the weight of all edges is 1 , ie , ai j = 1 . With node 1 being the source and node 4 the target , it is intuitively apparent that node 5 is more “ pivotal ” than node 2 or node 3 , given that it is on the shorter path . The pivotaliy metrics computed using the four methods are shown in Table 2 . We say that both the MF and CH metrics fail to rank the nodes correctly in that they are not able to recognize the higher pivotality of node 5 over nodes 2 and 3 .
Figure 2 provides a more general network example which can help illustrate the different behaviors of the pivotality metrics under study . In this network , there exists a shortest path of length 2 from source s to target t ( gray colored path ) interconnected to two groups of ( blue colored ) paths passing through k1 and k2 : a threehop path from source s via node k1 to target t , whereas there are N2 parallel paths going through node k2 , the length of which are L2 +1 . If L2 = 2 and N2 = 1 the network is symmetric with respect to k1 and k2 and yields equal pivotality for k1 and k2 in reachability from s to t ( second row of Table 3 ) . However , if N2 ≈ 1 and L2 * 2 , intuitively node k1 plays a more pivotal role than k2 . On the other hand , as the number N2 of parallel paths going through k2 increases while their length L2 + 1 is not significantly much longer than 3 , say , L2 = 3 , node k2 will play an increasingly more pivotal role in delivering traffic , information or other commodity from node s to node t . Intuitively , there is a trade off between N2 and L2 : more parallel paths going through node k2 will increase its pivotal
Figure 4 : Node pivotality ranking in a Fat tree network for the reachability of the source node s to target node t : red indicates highest pivotality and black shows non pivotality .
Figure 5 : Node pivotality ranking in the ESNet network for the reachability of the source node s to target node t : red indicates highest pivotality and black shows non pivotality .
Table 3 : Pivotality metrics ( CH and ATH only ) in Network Example 2 for various choices of N2 and L2
L2 = 1,N2 = 2 L2 = 2,N2 = 1 L2 = 2,N2 = 2 L2 = 20,N2 = 2 L2 = 20,N2 = 1 eCH k1,k2 7, 2.5
514, 514 817, 292 2917, 1042 1514, 1514 eAT H k1,k2
075,036 014, 014 017, 006 1033, 756 786, 1014 probability of hitting node 3 before node 2 is zero , ie , Q(¯2 ) 13 = 0 . Thus the denominator of the term H ¯2 13 in eq.(1 ) becomes zero and 13 = ∞ . This renders eAT H ( 3 ) = −∞ ( see eq.(4) ) , indicatthus H ¯2 ing the non pivotality of node 3 . In contrast , the CH metric and SHP metric yield eCH ( 3 ) = −3 and eSHP(3 ) = −3 for Fig 3(a ) and eCH ( 3 ) = −4 and eSHP(3 ) = −2 for Fig 3(b ) respectively . 4.2 Node Pivotality Ranking using the ATH
Metric
Lastly we apply the node pivotality ranking using our ATH metric to two real world networks : Fat Tree [ 10 ] and the ESNet [ 4 ] . Fat tree is a special h ary ( h ≥ 2 ) “ tree shaped ” structure first proposed in [ 10 ] for efficient communication with uniform bi section bandwidth , and for this reason it has been adopted in data center networks [ 1 ] . Fig ( 4 ) shows 3 ary fat tree structure with 99 nodes , where the node colors are shaded based on their ATH pivotality measures with respect to the reachability from the source s to the target node t . In the figure , the color spectrum from red to white and then to black shows the range of the ATH value from high to low : the nodes with the larger ATH value , are more pivotal to the reachability from s to t are represented with red and “ reddish ” colors ; in contrast , the nodes that play no part in the reachability from s to t are represented with black color . The results for the ESNet , the DoE energy science network with 68 nodes [ 4 ] are shown in
Fig ( 5 ) . Both examples illustrate the efficacy of the ATH metric in correctly capturing and ranking the pivotality of nodes in the reachability from a source node to a target node . Due to space limitation , we do not elaborate on them . 5 . CONCLUSION
In this paper we have extended and generalized the classical notion of hitting times to include the options of avoiding or transiting a specific node in random walks . We proved that the classical hitting time can be decomposed into avoidance hitting time and transit hitting time . We showed that these new metrics provide a powerful tool for assessing pivotality of nodes in the reachability of a source node to a target node . Intuitively , high pivotal nodes are the ones that make the reachability occur in shorter distance as they are traversed by a large of ( shorter ) paths for the reachability of source to target . Using some simple network examples , we compare our pivotality metric – the avoidance transit hitting time ( ATH ) metric – with other metrics defined using the shortest paths , maximum flow or classical hitting time methods and demonstrated that these existing metrics fail to properly capture and assess the pivotality of nodes in the reachability from a source to a target while our ATH metric can . Finally , we applied the ATH method to two real world network examples to rank the nodes based on their pivotality for the reachability from a source to a target . We visualized the results to demonstrate the performance of our proposed method . Acknowledgment . This research was supported in part by DTRA grants HDTRA1 09 1 0050 , HDTRA1 14 1 0040 , DoD ARO MURI Award W911NF 12 1 0385 , and NSF grants CNS 10171647 , CRI 1305237 and IIS 1319749 . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Al Fares , A . Loukissas , and A . Vahdat . A scalable , commodity data center network architecture . In SIGCOMM . ACM New York , NY , USA , 2008 .
[ 2 ] M . Chen , J . Liu , and X . Tang . Clustering via random walk hitting time on directed graphs . In AAAI , volume 8 , pages 616–621 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] P . G . Doyle and J . L . Snell . Random walks and electric networks . Carus mathematical monographs , 22 , 2000 .
[ 4 ] ESNet . Us energy science network . http://wwwesnet/
[ 5 ] F . Fouss , A . Pirotte , J M Renders , and M . Saerens .
Random walk computation of similarities between nodes of a graph with application to collaborative recommendation . Knowledge and data engineering , ieee transactions on , 19(3):355–369 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] L . C . Freeman . A set of measures of centrality based on betweenness . Sociometry , pages 35–41 , 1977 .
[ 7 ] G . Golnari and Z L Zhang . Foundamental tensor , avoidance and transit hitting times and their applications , 2015 . Research Manuscript in Preparation .
[ 8 ] A . R . Khakpour and A . X . Liu . Quantifying and querying network reachability . In Distributed Computing Systems ( ICDCS ) , 2010 IEEE 30th International Conference on , pages 817–826 . IEEE , 2010 .
[ 9 ] C . K . Koc and G . Chen . Inversion of all principal submatrices of a matrix . Aerospace and Electronic Systems , IEEE Transactions on , 30(1):280–281 , 1994 .
[ 10 ] C . E . Leiserson . Fat trees : universal networks for hardware efficient supercomputing . Computers , IEEE Transactions on , 100(10):892–901 , 1985 .
[ 11 ] M . E . Newman . A measure of betweenness centrality based on random walks . Social networks , 27(1):39–54 , 2005 .
[ 12 ] M . Parandehgheibi and E . Modiano . Robustness of interdependent networks : The case of communication networks and the power grid . In Global Communications Conference ( GLOBECOM ) , 2013 IEEE , pages 2164–2169 . [ 13 ] G . Ranjan and Z L Zhang . Geometry of complex networks and topological centrality . Physica A : Statistical Mechanics and its Applications , 392(17):3833–3845 , 2013 .
[ 14 ] P . Sarkar , A . W . Moore , and A . Prakash . Fast incremental proximity search in large graphs . In Proceedings of the 25th international conference on Machine learning , pages 896–903 . ACM , 2008 .
[ 15 ] G . G . Xie , J . Zhan , D . A . Maltz , H . Zhang , A . Greenberg ,
G . Hjalmtysson , and J . Rexford . On static reachability analysis of ip networks . In INFOCOM 2005 , volume 3 , pages 2170–2183 . IEEE , 2005 .
0
PT A IAA
PT T
7 . APPENDIX Proof of Theorem 1 : We divide the nodes into two groups : one consists of node k and j , and the other one includes the rest . The first group is called absorbing A and the second one is transient T . Reordering the nodes , transition probability matrix can be written as follows : P = . To obtain the conditional expected time from node i to node j given that not passing k at all , we need to calculate the conditional probabilities of all possible paths that end in node j and do not pass through k . In other words , for each path length l , where l is an integer number , we calculate the conditional probability Prl ( i , j ) ∑l Prl ( i , j ) of hitting node i at the l th step conditioned on hitting node j sooner than node k . Prl(i , j ) is the probability of the random walk being in one of the transient nodes in step 1 to l − 1 and entering node j at its l th step . ∑l Prl(i , j ) is the total probability of hitting node j sooner than node k . T T PT A ](i , j ) = eiPl−1
Prl(i , j ) = [ Pl−1
T T PT A ( : , j ) , where ei is a row vector of all zeros except its i th entry which is equal to 1 . Note that PT A ( : , j ) represents the column vector of transition probabilities from transient nodes to node j . So the conditional expected time from node i to node j avoiding node k can be calculated as follows :
H(¯k ) i j =
∑l lPrl(i , j ) ∑l Prl(i , j )
∑l l[Pl−1 ∑l[Pl−1 The numerator can be re written as follows : ∑ T T PT A ](i , j ) = ei(I + 2PT T + 3P2 l[Pl−1
= l
T T PT A ](i , j ) T T PT A ](i , j )
T T + )PT A ( : , j )
= ei(I − PT T )−2PT A ( : , j ) = eiF2PT A ( : , j ) = eiFQ(¯k ) = ∑
F ( {k , j} )
Q(¯k ) m j im m
Also , note that the denominator is simply the probability of absorption by node j sooner than node k starting from node i , which is equal to Q(¯k ) i j : ∑
[ Pl−1 T T PT A ](i , j ) = ei(I + PT T + P2
T T + )PT A ( : , j )
= ei(I − PT T )−1PT A ( : , j ) = eiFPT A ( : , j ) = Q(¯k ) i j . l
'
Proof of Theorem 2 :
Based on Schur complement theory and the relation of matrix inverse with its sub matrix inverse [ 9 ] , the following equation holds :
F ( { j,k} ) im
= F ( k ) i j F ( k ) im − F ( k ) jm F ( k ) j j
,
( 6 ) where F ( k ) i j F ( k ) j j can be substituted by Q(¯k )
Q(¯k ) i j = ∑ m m im
F ( { j,k} )
Pm j = ∑ im Pm j − F ( k ) i j F ( k ) F ( k ) j j
∑ m
= ∑ m F ( k ) i j F ( k ) j j
= i j as follows : i j F ( k ) im − F ( k ) jm ( F ( k ) F ( k ) j j
)Pm j
F ( k ) jm Pm j = F ( k ) i j − F ( k ) i j F ( k ) j j
( F ( k ) j j − 1 )
Taking sum over m for both sides of Eq ( 6 ) , the following equa tion is obtained :
Hi,{ j,k} = Hik − Q(¯k ) i j Hjk
( 7 )
On the other hand , we have the following relation based on the definition of the avoidance hitting time : i j H(¯k )
Hi,{ j,k} = Q(¯k ) ik H( ¯j ) Eq ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) together yield the following result : i j H(¯k ) ik + Hk j ) = Q(¯k )
Hi j = Q(¯k ) i j + Q( ¯j ) i j + Q( ¯j ) ik ( H( ¯j ) ik i j H(¯k ) i j = H( ¯j ) ik + Hk j . where H(ˇk ) ' i j + Q( ¯j ) ik H(ˇk ) i j
( 8 )
,
