User Review Sites as a Resource for Large Scale Sociolinguistic Studies
University of Copenhagen ,
University of Copenhagen ,
University of Copenhagen ,
Anders Johannsen Center for Language
Technology
Denmark
Njalsgade 140
Anders Søgaard Center for Language
Technology
Denmark
Njalsgade 140
Dirk Hovy
Center for Language
Technology
Denmark
Njalsgade 140 dirk@cst.dk ajohannsen@humkudk soegaard@humkudk
ABSTRACT Sociolinguistic studies investigate the relation between language and extra linguistic variables . This requires both representative text data and the associated socio economic meta data of the subjects . Traditionally , sociolinguistic studies use small samples of hand curated data and metadata . This can lead to exaggerated or false conclusions . Using social media data offers a large scale source of language data , but usually lacks reliable socio economic meta data . Our research aims to remedy both problems by exploring a large new data source , international review websites with user profiles . They provide more text data than manually collected studies , and more meta data than most available social media text . We describe the data and present various pilot studies , illustrating the usefulness of this resource for sociolinguistic studies . Our approach can help generate new research hypotheses based on data driven findings across several countries and languages . Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Natural Language Pro cessing General Terms Human Factors ; Experimentation Keywords Language analysis techniques ; Multi lingual and crosslingual analysis and mining ; Social science research based on social media ; Insights from natural language analysis of social media ; Novel applications 1 Sociolinguistic studies investigate the relation between language use and extra linguistic socio economic variables , such as regional origin , gender , social class , or age [ 17 , 29 ,
Introduction
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3469 3/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27362772741141
25 , 27 , 9 ] . These studies thus require both a representative corpus of text data and meta data about the socio economic variables . Traditionally , these studies have relied on individual interviews and questionnaires and their manual transcriptions to collect data and meta data . Due to the effort in curating them , the resulting corpora are often of moderate size , and sometimes include less than five subjects [ 27 ] . However , small sample sizes may lead to false research findings , as elaborated on in [ 8 ] ( albeit for neuro sciences ) . Sociolinguistic studies , in other words , often lack statistical power to either establish relationships between language use and socio economic variables ( because they are limited to detect only large effects ) , or are liable to present exaggerated claims ( if they report spurious effects due to a small sample size ) . Web data , on the other hand , presents a source of large amounts of text data . In addition , a lot of web data is personalized text ( ie , not canonical ) , such as blogs and other social media texts . language use , rather than a prescriptively normed ( standard ) variant . This allows sociolinguistic studies with sufficient statistical power , but requires a web mining approach . Indeed , the natural language processing ( NLP ) community has recently shown a growing interest in sociolinguistic research questions , applying modern data driven methods to social media data . This interest was in part driven by the availability of some meta data ( eg , location and time ) in social media platforms such as Twitter [ 14 , 13 , 12 , 5 ] .
Ie , they represent actual
The meta data for social media , however , is partial at best and often unreliable , and so most previous work has only considered regional origin and time as extra linguistic variables . This severely limits the types of sociolinguistic research questions that can be addressed , because most traditional studies are concerned with socio economic factors such as age , gender , or class , which are not present in social media meta data . To remedy this problem of incomplete meta data , a whole branch of previous work has thus focused on building predictive models for age and gender [ 7 , 4 , 10 ] to add user information . Some social media data sets , like Facebook , contain more meta data , but are difficult or impossible to obtain .
This paper proposes a novel source of data for sociolinguistic studies , namely user review sites . We show that these sites contain textual data ( reviews ) that is linked to various extra linguistic information , namely age , gender , and location of the reviewer , as well as time stamps . The language in the reviews , while not as informal as eg , Twitter , is much
452 less canonical than newswire , and thus likely to reflect the socio economic background of the user . More importantly , some user review sites contain up to millions of user reviews and thus provide the statistical power to study the influence of socio economic variables on language use .
In our case , we extract data from the website of Trustpilot1 . On Trustpilot , users review online and brick andmortar companies they shopped at , and leave a one to five star rating , as well as a written review . The website offers reliable information about the time the review was posted , so it can be used to track some diachronic development . In addition , users often supply information about their location , age , and gender . The data is available for 24 countries , using 13 different languages ( Danish , Dutch , English , Finnish , French , German , Italian , Norwegian , Polish , Portuguese , Russian , Spanish , Swedish ) , and thus contains comparable text across socio economic variables in several languages , spanning several years .
We explore this new data source and its usefulness to test sociolinguistic hypotheses with sufficient statistical power . Our contributions We show how publicly available user review sites can be used for large scale sociolinguistic experiments . The size of the corpus allows for statistically more powerful analyses than manually collected corpora . The sites also contain more meta data ( information about the speaker , including age , gender , and location ) than social media data .
We describe the process of collecting data from the Trustpilot website , and how to augment missing information . The scripts for harvesting and preprocessing the corpora are made publicly available.2
We analyze the resulting corpus with respect to representativeness for all age ranges , both genders , and various regions . Since the data consists of user reviews , we also study the distribution of ratings across socio economic variables . We then present a series of pilot studies across several languages . The studies are based on hypotheses found in sociolinguistic literature and include gender specific lexical differences , the distribution of regional/dialect markers , the decline of grammatical constructions , and spelling variations . Our results indicate that user review sites can provide informative data for large scale sociolinguistic studies . 2 Related Work Sociolinguistic and variational studies have a long tradition , correlating speakers’ linguistic traits with socioeconomic background and variables such as origin , social class , age , and gender .
Labov ’s seminal studies [ 19 ] investigated the influence of regional origin and class on phonology . In recent years , sociolinguistic studies have investigated the influence of age [ 27 ] , gender [ 17 , 27 ] , class [ 24 , 22 , 23 ] , and ethnicity [ 9 , 27 ] . All of them find that language use is highly influenced by these factors , although a statistical correlation is sometimes tenuous or absent .
With the widespread availability of Twitter , recent studies in NLP have focused on exploring linguistic features such as phonological , lexical , and morphological variation , and how they are influenced by spatial resolution [ 14 , 13 , 28 , 12 , 5 ] ,
1http://trustpilot.com 2http://wwwlowlandsdk/results gender [ 6 ] , and ethnicity [ 32 ] . Some of these research questions , such as which phonological features influence written language on social media , are interesting on their own , and NLP offers tools for answering these questions [ 13 ] . Other sociolinguistic research questions coincide with important topics in NLP , eg , language change , which challenges the robustness of the predictive models used in the field [ 14 , 30 ] . While Twitter provides a large amount of constantly updated data , it is notoriously difficult to verify sociolinguistic traits of the speakers . Some inferences can be made by correlating linguistic differences to census data [ 13 ] . In this work , we use a resource that provides both textual and meta data .
There is also an active research area in predicting sociolinguistic traits of authors , mainly focusing on age and gender [ 4 , 10 , 21 ] using information such as linguistic choice and names as input . [ 26 ] presented a study where they caution that humans apparently use various other factors to assess a user ’s age and gender . [ 20 ] recently presented a relationextraction inspired approach to inferring a user ’s spouse , education , and job by using distant supervision from various social networks . While interesting , these “ acquired ” features are only secondary to language use .
Areal studies of language variation across time have existed systematically at least since the neo grammarians . Georg Wenker collected 30k transcriptions of dialect variations in the 1880s . However , they do not include metainformation about the speakers themselves , other than the name of the transcriptor ( local school teachers ) . The results were mapped out to show regional variations and have recently been published along with the questionnaires by [ 29 ] . Similar work , but with a focus on computer aided clustering and mapping of Dutch dialects , has been undertaken by [ 25 ] . A more historical approach to data driven areal linguistic studies and language phylogeny was presented by [ 11 ] .
Other studies that investigate linguistic variation , albeit across languages and stylistic variation , include [ 16 ] and [ 18 ] .
3 Data collection 3.1 Data format
Users
Name , ID , profile text , country ) , gender , year of birth location ( city and
Reviews Title , text , rating ( 1–5 ) , User ID , Company
ID , Date and time of review
Company Name , categories ( eg , electronics ) , number of ratings , description , address , location ( city and country )
Table 1 : Meta information available in the Trustpilot Corpus
The Trustpilot Corpus consists of user reviews from the Trustpilot website . In order to make the data usable for our purposes , we crawl the website and extract publicly available information into JSON format with objects ( dictionaries ) that correspond to the various entities . Apart from the reviews , these are users and companies . Table 1 contains a list of the fields that are available for each type of entity .
453 Users Age
Sex Place
All
United Kingdom 1,424k France 741k 671k Denmark 648k United States 592k Netherlands Germany 329k 170k Sweden 132k Italy 56k Spain 51k Norway Belgium 36k 31k Australia 16k Finland 15k Austria 14k Switzerland Canada 12k 12k Ireland
7 % 62 % 3 % 53 % 23 % 87 % 8 % 59 % 9 % 39 % 8 % 47 % 5 % 64 % 10 % 61 % 6 % 37 % 5 % 50 % 13 % 42 % 8 % 36 % 6 % 36 % 10 % 43 % 8 % 41 % 10 % 19 % 8 % 30 %
5 % 4 % 2 % 1 % 17 % 16 % 7 % 4 % 7 % 5 % 6 % 4 % 4 % 3 % 8 % 6 % 5 % 3 % 4 % 3 % 11 % 8 % 7 % 5 % 5 % 3 % 7 % 5 % 7 % 4 % 9 % 4 % 7 % 4 %
Table 2 : Number of users for a given variable per country ( after applying augmentations ) . Table contains only countries with 10,000+ registered Trustpilot users .
Users need to register with a username in order to leave reviews , but many also opt to fill in a public profile . There are no mandatory fields – other than the name – but many users also supply their birth year , gender , and location , as well as a short profile text .
Companies are represented in our data with their location , a short description ( presumably self supplied ) , and a classification based on the type of business ( eg , electronics ) .
We assign unique identifiers to both users and companies and use those to link up reviews . Reviews further contain a star rating , the review text , and a time stamp . We did not include any replies to reviews written by the companies .
We collect data that spans a period of seven years . The fields we are most interested in here are the socio economic variables supplied by the users , ie , age , gender , and location , in combination with the written reviews .
Note that the countries differ in the amount and type of information available . Table 2 gives an overview . In our experiments , we restrict ourselves to the countries with more than 250k users : Denmark , France , Germany , the United Kingdom and the United States .
The high number of users in Denmark ( one tenth of the country ’s population ) might be due to the fact that Trustpilot is Danish company and thus existed there longer than in other countries . Danish users provide ( in relative terms ) more information about themselves than any other country , so that even in absolute numbers , there is oftentimes more available information than for larger countries like France , where users are more reluctant to disclose information .
For these reasons , and due to a higher level of linguistic expertise on that language in our group , we use Danish as a case study . 3.2 Data augmentation We augment the retrieved data set in two ways , namely by adding 1 . gender information based on first names , and 2 . geotagging information ( latitude and longitude ) .
In order to add gender information when it is not supplied , we collect statistics for each occurrence of the name where gender information is available . This provides us with a distribution over genders for each name . If a name is found with sufficient frequency in our data , and predominantly for one gender , we propagate this information to all occurrences of the name that lack gender information . In our experiments , we used a gender ratio of 0.95 ( name occurs with one gender at least 95 % of the time ) and a minimum frequency of 3 ( name appears at least 3 times with gender information in the data ) . Since the gender of some names is country specific ( eg , Simone is a male name in Italy , but female in Germany or France ) , we repeat this step for each country separately . This augmentation step typically doubles the amount of available data with gender information for any language , while minimizing the risk of introducing false positives .
To add geographical information , we use the Geonames database3 to attach latitude and longitude information to the user . This allows areal distribution analysis of the data . Since the place names are entered as free text by the user , we apply various heuristics to get an acceptable match percentage . We remove short suffixes ( eg , “ k ” from “ københavn k ” ) , spaces , and punctuation , spell out abbreviations , and try to correct misspellings with an edit distance of 1 from a known place name . Latitude and longitude values allow us to precisely place the user review on a map .
One problem with locations is the ambiguity of some place names , say “ Nykøbing ” , “ Neustadt ” , or “ Springfield ” . In many cases there is a “ canonical ” town with this name in a country , typically the largest one ( one such example is “ Kastrup ” in Denmark , which refers to two cities on Sealand , as well as several villages in Jutland , but is generally understood to refer to the one close to the eponymous airport in Copenhagen ) . We determine the canonical location using a set of heuristics based on a population database . When the heuristics fail ( eg when towns are of similar size , or more than one town has a population above a certain threshold ) , the location is left out of the analysis . Another , for now unanswered , problem is that the stated location most likely refers to the current residence of the user , and thus provides no information about their birthplace or where they grew up ( typically important variables in variational linguistics ) . 4 Representativeness Since the user information is given voluntarily and not verified , some birth years are presumably spurious ( it seems unlikely that 2 year olds or 110 year olds review businesses on the Internet ) . In our experiments involving age , we thus restrict ourselves to the range from 16 to 80 .
Apart from the outliers , the age distributions for both genders follow a reasonable distribution ( see Figure 1 ) . Additionally , the median age in our data is typically close to the country ’s median value according to the CIA World Factbook [ 3 ] ( see Table 3 ) , deviating slightly to both sides . For women , our mean absolute error ( MAE ) over all countries is 0.74 , for men 044 This indicates that the distributions are reasonably representative for the generations as a whole .
For gender , however , the differences are larger . Within each country , the gender distributions look similar , but there
3wwwgeonamesorg
454 we explore some language dependent questions for Danish ( Section 7 ) and German ( Section 8 ) .
In all studies , our methodology is to use the reviews to extract lexical variation and compute correlations of the variants with a socio economic variable , ie , gender , age , or region . Eg , we count how often a certain word X and its variant Y are used by a certain socio economic group , and how much the variation is correlated with the group . In the case of gender , we compute χ2 over the contingency matrix . For correlation of variants with age and region , we use the Spearman coefficient . We are only interested in highly significant correlations , so we set our p < 0001 6 General 6.1 Discovering gender specific words If we already have a pre defined sociolinguistic hypothesis , it is easy to verify it with enough data . However , such hypotheses require already existing knowledge about the target variables . This limits what we can explore , and can also introduce bias from the researcher , by restricting the alternatives that are considered . One of the advantages of a large data collection is the ability to discover variations in a purely data driven manner . [ 15 ] presented a datadriven approach to discover ethnicity specific words using l1,∞ regularization . In this pilot study , we look at gender , and use a simpler method ( tf idf ) to learn salient expressions .
In order to find the most gender specific words , we separate the reviews from each language into two sub corpora , based on the reviewers stated or inferred gender . We then compute tf idf on each sub corpus separately and normalize them . Tf idf weighs content words that occur in fewer documents higher than common words ( prepositions , forms of to be , etc ) We can now compare the relative tf idf scores for both genders and compute the difference by subtracting one from the other . This gives us a gradient , with predominantly “ female ” words on one and predominantly “ male ” words on the other end of the spectrum .
Table 4 gives an overview of the 10 most gender specific words for each language . In general , women tend to express satisfaction ( “ tilfreds ” , “ satisfaite ” , “ content ” “ pleased ” ) in all languages ( except German ) , while men seem to talk more about problems ( “ problemer ” , “ probl`eme ” ) and agreement ( “ aftalt ” , “ conforme ” ) . For French , where adjectives in sentences like “ I am ADJ ” are inflected according to the gender of the speaker , we see that the word for “ satisfied ” appears in both top 10 . For both varieties of English , we find that certain words are associated more with women than with men ( “ loved’ , “ pleased ” ) .
We do not attempt to interpret these findings any further , but point out that this might be a valuable approach to collect information about gender specific differences in a data driven way . 6.2 Emoticons , age , and gender Emoticons have traditionally been seen as markers of adolescent language . We thus expect to see emoticons of all sorts used more by younger speakers .
We correlate emoticon usage with age and gender . We define emoticons to be a combination of eyes ( such as : , ; , or X ) , nose ( , or none ) , and mouth ( ) , ( , [ , * , etc ) . Overall , we check for 66 variations and record the ratio of emoticons in the overall number of words used in the category .
Figure 1 : Age distribution per gender for all countries are always more male than female users . The exact distributions differ from country to country : in Germany and the US , the distributions are skewed towards younger men . Naturally , this does not reflect the actual demographics . However , it is easy to control for this bias in our data , for example by downsampling the male data .
We note a slight dip around the mid thirties for both genders and in most countries ( except the US ) , which is consistent with the actual age distribution of those countries .
While most users tend to leave only one or two reviews , the average number of reviews per user is around 4 due to some prolific reviewers . Very few users did either not leave a review after setting up an account , or were not captured during our crawl .
For the EU countries , we can compare the population per region in our data ( as given by the geocodes ) to the official statistics . Figure 2 shows the comparison . Again , we see that our data is a reasonable approximation of the underlying distribution .
5 Pilot studies In the following , we present a series of pilot studies to explore the usefulness of our resource . All of the studies are based on sociolinguistic problems , yet use a solely datadriven approach .
We first conduct several language independent studies across five different languages ( Danish , French , German , and English from both the US and the UK ) ( Section 6 ) , before
455 women men mean median off . median mean median off . median
38.80 Denmark 42.03 France Germany 40.64 United Kingdom 44.51 United States 40.79
38 41 40 45 40
41.6 41.2 45.3 41.5 38.1
39.07 41.92 38.97 43.87 36.70
38 41 38 43 33
39.8 38.2 42.3 39.4 35.5
Table 3 : Mean and median age for both genders over all countries , in data and official median
Figure 2 : Regional coverage of our data . The figure compares geographical distribution of the population by region with the distribution in our dataset . Source : [ 2 ] .
We find that for all countries , use of emoticons is strongly anti correlated with age ( Spearman ρ = −0.99 over all countries , see Table 5 ) at p < 0001 In other words , as expected , the older a user is , the less likely they are to use emoticons .
The presence or absence of a nose is a distinguishing feature of emoticon use , and seems to vary a lot . We suspect that this is correlated with user age . We select the most frequent emoticons ( : ) , ; ) , and : D ) and collect counts over the occurrences with and without a nose .
For gender , we find that women use emoticons almost twice as often as men do ( 0.10 % vs 0.18 % of the respective words across all languages ) . The difference in the ratios is significant for all languages but French and German , although for the aggregated total of all languages , it is significant .
We find that for all ages , the use of a nose is highly anticorrelated with age ( at p < 0001 ) Figure 3 shows the distribution over all languages , which shows a different interesting fact : there are two distributions at work . Use of a nose increases steadily with age , until at around 34 , it overtakes the use of no nose . Given that there are fewer older
456 Denmark
France
Germany
UK
US female male nemt bestille varer tilfreds rigtig handle dejligt nem hjemmeside mine lovet deres problemer alt aftalt virker tiden ok pris 00 gerne qualit¨at tolle wir satisfaite contente suis produits chaussures ware ´etiquettes sont ma ´et´e spartoo probl`eme rien bonne mat´eriel conforme ldlc service sans bon satisfait bestellen sind karten bestellung vielen dank keys g¨unstig service mmoga support weiter so top key guter gerne wieder customer service love we flowers really pleased thank you pleased definitely lovely love quickly received impressed wife parts deal product 00 an first class tyres could find best really petflow free shipping thank you our food these guys parts geek fast partsgeek prices best shipping customer part parts
Table 4 : The 10 most gender specific words per language , based on relative tf idf country
Denmark France Germany UK US Total age Spearman ρ signif . male gender female signif .
0.96 0.93 0.95 0.98 0.93 0.99 yes yes yes yes yes yes
0.24 % 0.47 % 0.06 % 0.05 % 0.14 % 0.15 % 0.04 % 0.06 % 0.03 % 0.05 % 0.10 % 0.18 % yes no no yes yes yes
Table 5 : Correlation of emoticons with age , and % of words for gender in different countries . Significance tests at p < 0.001 users and that the use of emoticons declines with age , this effect is likely to be even more distinct .
With respect to gender , we find that women tend to use the noseless variant significantly more than men , except for France , where the difference between genders is not statistically significant at the chosen level . country
Spearman ρ significant age gender significant
Denmark France Germany UK US
0.89 0.63 0.83 0.83 0.82 yes yes yes yes yes yes no yes yes yes
Table 6 : Correlation of nose use in emoticons for age and gender in different countries . All correlations significant at p < 0.001
Figure 3 : Usage of emoticons with and without nose by age group , aggregated over all countries
6.3 Ratings , categories , gender , and age
Gender Apart from the linguistic data , we also have ratings associated with the reviews . Users rate the business on a 5 point Likert scale . We restrict ourselves to 1 , 3 and 5 start ratings ( borrowed from the sentiment analysis categories positive , negative , neutral ) and record the distribution for each gender to see whether any differences emerge .
Table 7 shows the distributions of labels over gender and age . We find that men tend to vote slightly more negative than women , using fewer 5 star and more 1 star reviews . While the difference between genders on those two ratings
457 Figure 4 : Distribution of the 30 most frequent categories per gender label male female
U35 O45 negative neutral positive
5.92 4.46 89.61
4.09 4.21 91.70
12.56 4.72 82.72
9.96 3.82 86.23 non reflexives hans/hendes/dens/dets ( “ his ” ) . Ie , there is no distinction between “ He met his ( own ) wife ” and “ He met his ( =someone else ’s ) wife ” .
Table 7 : Percentage of labels for each sub group is statistically significant , the overall difference between the two distributions is not .
Similarly , people in the younger group are more likely to use negative ratings than people in the older group ( see Table 7 ) . While the differences are small , they show that there are measurable differences worth modeling .
The categories used to classify businesses show a very different behavior . Figure 4 shows that the categories are highly gender specific . With the exception of Hotels and Fashion Accessories , the two distributions are almost opposites . AgeWe also hypothesized that users of different age would exhibit different rating behavior . Again , we collected all available data . Rather than mapping a distribution for each age , we compute the average rating score .
While all ages have an average rating above 4 , we find that older users tend to be more generous ( or satisfied ) , which is reflected in a Spearman ρ of 0.92 , ie , a a strong correlation between user age and average rating . The correlation is significant at p < 0001 7 Denmark 7.1 Reflexive possessive pronouns One of the distinguishing features of the western Danish dialect of Jutland is the missing distinction between the reflexive possessive pronouns sin/sit ( “ his/her own ” ) and the
Figure 5 : Regional distribution of “ sin/sit ” ( ratio of all pronouns per NUTS 2 region )
In order to investigate this phenomenon in a data driven way , we record the frequency of sin/sit and the joint frequency of all possessive pronouns . We then compute the ratio of the former in all pronouns . That is r = count(sin , sit ) count(sin , sit , hans , hendes , dens , dets )
( 1 )
If the merger is still reflected in written language , we should expect to see a higher ratio of sin/sit in areas that do not make the distinction ( i.e , in the western part of Denmark ) , because it is used in all contexts .
458 Overall , we find 420 locations that contain reviews with the possessive pronouns . Note that if the reviews for a location do not include sin/sit , the ratio is 0 . If these are the only pronouns recorded for a location , the ratio is 1 .
In order to find a regional distribution , we divide our data into NUTS 2 regions . Figure 5 shows the regional distribution according to these regions .
The map shows two distinct parts , at a line drawn at 11 degrees longitude . It approximately divides the country into two even parts , with Sealand ( with the capital , Copenhagen ) and Bornholm in the east , and Fyn and Jutland in the west . We have 159 data points in the eastern part , 261 in the western . Aggregating over all ratios for each of the two part , we find a ratio of 0.27 in the west , and of 0.21 in the east . The χ2 test on the contingency matrix comes out highly significant , ie , the ratio of sin/sit among the possessive pronouns is highly correlated with regions . This is likely due to the merger in the west , and is in line with the traditional dialectological distinction .
In this case , we were able to confirm a dialectological dis tinction with our data driven approach . 7.2 Swear words across location , gender , and age
Traditionally , dialectal language is tightly linked with the region where it is natively spoken , to the degree that it is rarely heard ( or understood ) outside that region . One way this happens is when speakers of a dialect change to the standard language when addressing non dialect speakers . On the internet , however , it is not always obvious whether the audience is local or global . The question is whether people still use dialect when they are writing reviews , which will be publicly available on the internet .
We consider the word træls , which is primarily found in the Jutland dialect . Used as an adjective , it suggests that some situation or state of affairs is unpleasant or unwanted . Interestingly , the word has no exact translation equivalent in standard language , which might make it harder for people to abandon the use of the word as they move outside their home region , virtually or physically .
Figure 6 maps out the regional distribution of the word following NUTS 2 regions . The map shows that the word is mostly found in the western part of the country . Of the 841 reviews with at least one occurrence of træls , 84 % were written by people living west of the 11 degrees longitude line dividing Sealand and Funen . The word is also used by people living in Copenhagen ; the number of users there , however , is small compared to the population of the city . These are most likely Jutlandic citizens living in Copenhagen .
Furthermore , træls has a gender and age distribution which deviates from the population as a whole . Notably , as can be seen in Figure 7 , it is much more prevalent in the younger age groups , and the rate of usage falls sharply off as people get older . This might be explained by the fact that the word does not belong to the standard language , and as people grow older , they tend to use more conservative language .
Finally , for comparison , we plot the age and gender distribution of the word lort . Lort is a curse word ( literally : feces ) , although not strong enough to be considered offensive in most contexts , and is frequently used to characterize the same types of situations as træls . Here , too , we see that the principal users of the word are young people , although women use this stronger version less than the men of the
Figure 6 : Regional distribution of the word træls ( ratio of all words per NUTS 2 region ) . same age group . This is in line with the findings of [ 31 ] that the use of swear words/expletives reduces with age . However , contrary to her study , we do find gender differences , with women using the “ softer ” ( and more dialectal ) version more than men .
Figure 7 : Two words expressing negative emotions . Lort is stronger than træls .
7.3 Compounds and multi word expressions In Danish , a considerable part of lexicon entries are multiword units , such as the words for “ today ” ( i dag ) , “ yesterday ” ( i g˚ar ) , or “ furthermore ” ( i øvrigt ) . These expressions have traditionally been written apart , ie , with an intervening white space between the two words . However , in daily use , these expressions are no longer identified by the speakers as composed of two elements , but grammaticized , ie , they are interpreted as a single linguistic unit .
Compound words , on the other hand , are officially always written in one word , ie , without white space . They are often made up on the spot and thus usually analyzable as two elements . Compounds are a productive source of new words in Danish , and potentially unlimited . In English , in contrast , compounds are almost always written with white
459 selv om i g˚ar ud over i dag i orden i øvrigt inden for hjemme side ind til lyn hurtig super service i det super hurtig super god translation even though yesterday apart from today alright furthermore inside home page into lightning fast super service in that super fast super good
% sep . % joint
ρ
0.28 0.61 0.47 0.67 0.84 0.66 0.54 0.03 0.38 0.17 0.97 0.73 0.94 0.95
0.72 0.39 0.53 0.33 0.16 0.34 0.46 0.97 0.62 0.83 0.03 0.27 0.06 0.05
0.98 0.82 0.79 0.78 0.74 0.52 0.54 0.59 0.70 0.77 0.79 0.86 0.88 0.90
Table 8 : Frequency of spelling variations and Spearman correlation of separate spelling with age . Positive ρ = older users prefer separate spelling . Correlations significant at p < 0.001 space between the nouns , and this seems to influence how young Danes write compounds . To complicate matters , the official spelling has been reformed within the last 50 years , and many words that used to be written together are now written apart .
As a result , there is a multitude of different spellings in Danish for both compounds and multiword adverbial expressions . We hypothesize that there are age related differences in the preference for one the various spelling variants . Specifically , we expect younger Danes to split noun compounds more often than older ones , due to the influence of English , while grammaticizing multiword adverbial expressions such as i dag . We expect older language users to maintain the separate writing for adverbials and to not split noun compounds .
In order to analyze this , we collect all combinations of two words ( bigrams ) that occur more than 10 times in our corpus , and record for each age how often they are written apart or together . We exclude all bigrams that contain the article suffixs en or et , as well as all verb forms of “ to be ” , and function words . This filters out some false positives ( such as varen ( “ the goods ” ) vs . var en ( “ was a ” ) ) .
For the resulting list , we compute the ratio of the twoword spelling for each expression and analyze its correlation with respect to age via Spearman correlation . Table 8 shows the Spearman correlation of the separate spelling with age for some of the results , together with the overall distribution of the two spellings in the language .
We find that the separate spelling variant of i dag ( “ today ” ) and i g˚ar ( “ yesterday ” ) are strongly correlated with age , ie , older speaker prefer to write it in two words . However , surprisingly , for i øvrigt ( furthermore ) , we see a slight anti correlation ( Spearman ρ = −052 ) This means that older speakers tend to write it in one single word . This goes against our expectations . Comparison to a dictionary from 1957 [ 1 ] , however , reveals that these were indeed the prescribed spellings , with i øvrigt written in one word . Older speakers thus seem to continue to use prescriptive writing norms acquired in their youths .
For compounds , we find that the most distinct cases involve the extremely productive adjectival prefix super , either as an adjective intensifier , or as an adjectival modifier of a noun . Interestingly , older speakers also prefer to use the one word spelling , while younger speakers tend to prefer the separate spelling . There are three examples in our top 20 , and in all of them the separate spelling is strongly anti correlated with age ( see Table 8 ) .
In German , where compounds famously abound , words can be combined with a hyphen or simply by concatenation . However , while there are some words that show variation , we do not find any significant correlations with age or gender . This seems to indicate that in German , compound spelling is not as free as in Danish . 8 German 8.1 Spelling reform “ ss ” vs . “ ß ” Germany underwent a spelling reform in 1996 , with the main goal to simplify spelling . After a transition period , the new spelling was legally binding for schools from 2007 on . One of the most pervasive ( and contentious ) changes was the replacement of ß with ss after short vowels . Two of the most frequent words affected by this reform were the conjunction dass/daß , “ that ” , and the modal m¨ussen/m¨ußen , “ to must ” . Younger people ( born after 1980 ) were thus predominantly taught the new spelling in school , so we expect to see predominant use of dass/m¨ussen , with occasional uses of the old form ( depending on at which age the new spelling was acquired ) , while older speakers retain the traditional spelling they acquired in their youth to a much greater extent .
Again , we collect frequency counts for the two variants of the conjunction , and expect to see a correlation of the traditional spelling ( with ß ) with older users .
Indeed , when we run significance tests , we see that usage of the old spelling ( daß/m¨ußen ) is significantly correlated with age ( Spearman ρ 084 ) Most occurrences of the old spelling crop up for users older than 30 , ie , people who started school in 1990 and encountered the new spelling only after they had left elementary school ( when most of spelling is learned ) . If we divide the data into two bins , the most significant difference between the usage in the two groups occurs when splitting at the age of 40 . We do note , though , that use of the old form is lower than use of the new form for all ages .
Our findings indicate that while the spelling reform has been largely accepted , there is a residual use of the old forms , significantly correlated with age . We do not find a gender effect for this spelling variation . 9 Conclusion Traditional sociolinguistic studies often lack statistical power to draw valid conclusions , while big data approaches to language studies mostly lack extra linguistic information that would enable sociolinguistic studies .
In this paper , we presented user review sites as a possible solution to this dilemma . The data provides a combination of non canonical textual information with meta information about the authors , including age , gender , and location , as well as time stamps .
We presented several pilot studies that show how linguistic features are highly correlated with these socio economic
460 variables . This includes the use of emoticons ( with and without nose ) , detection of gender specific words , and rating behavior , as well as phenomena in Danish ( reflexive pronouns , swear words , and compounding ) and German ( spelling reform ) .
The focus of this work has been to evaluate the suitability of the resource . Given the robustness of our findings , we plan on investigating the consequences of language variation among groups for NLP tools . More concretely , do NLP tools perform equally well for all demographic groups , and if not , can we use the findings of our study to improve them ?
We also plan to a ) relate the data to extra linguistic information and b ) augment it with information on the grammatical information . 10 Acknowledgements This research is funded by the ERC Starting Grant LOWLANDS No . 313695 . The authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their helpful suggestions . 11 References
[ 1 ] Ordbog over det danske sprog . Gyldendal , 2nd edition edition , 1967 .
[ 2 ] EUROSTAT regional yearbook 2013 . EUROSTAT ,
2013 .
[ 3 ] C . I . Agency . Field Listing – Median Age , 2014 . [ 4 ] J . S . Alowibdi , U . A . Buy , and P . Yu . Empirical evaluation of profile characteristics for gender classification on twitter . In Machine Learning and Applications ( ICMLA ) , 2013 12th International Conference on , volume 1 , pages 365–369 . IEEE , 2013 .
[ 5 ] D . Bamman , C . Dyer , and N . A . Smith . Distributed representations of geographically situated language . In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 828–834 . ACL , 2014 .
[ 6 ] D . Bamman , J . Eisenstein , and T . Schnoebelen .
Gender identity and lexical variation in social media . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 18(2):135–160 , 2014 .
[ 7 ] C . Boulis and M . Ostendorf . A quantitative analysis of lexical differences between genders in telephone conversations . In Proceedings of ACL , pages 435–442 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2005 .
[ 8 ] K . Button , J . Ioannidis , C . Mokrysz , B . Nosek ,
J . Flint , E . Robinson , and M . Munafo . Power failure : why small sample size undermines the reliability of neuroscience . Nature Reviews Neuroscience , 14:365–376 , 2013 .
[ 9 ] P . M . Carter . Shared spaces , shared structures : Latino social formation and african american english in the us south . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 17(1):66–92 , 2013 .
[ 10 ] M . Ciot , M . Sonderegger , and D . Ruths . Gender inference of twitter users in non english contexts . In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , Seattle , Wash , pages 18–21 , 2013 .
[ 11 ] H . Daum´e III . Non parametric bayesian areal linguistics . In Proceedings of NAACL , pages 593–601 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2009 .
[ 12 ] G . Doyle . Mapping dialectal variation by querying social media . In EACL , 2014 .
[ 13 ] J . Eisenstein . Phonological factors in social media writing . In Workshop on Language Analysis in Social Media , NAACL , 2013 .
[ 14 ] J . Eisenstein . What to do about bad language on the internet . In NAACL , 2013 .
[ 15 ] J . Eisenstein , N . Smith , and E . Xing . Discovering sociolinguistic associations with structured sparsity . In ACL , 2011 .
[ 16 ] J . Ganitkevitch , B . Van Durme , and
C . Callison Burch . Ppdb : The paraphrase database . In Proceedings of NAACL HLT , pages 758–764 , 2013 . [ 17 ] J . Holmes . Women , language and identity . Journal of
Sociolinguistics , 1(2):195–223 , 1997 .
[ 18 ] R . Jones and A . Irvine . The ( un)faithful machine translator . In ACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage , Social Sciences , and Humanities ( LaTeCH ) , 2013 .
[ 19 ] W . Labov . The social stratification of English in New
York City . PhD thesis , Columbia university , 1964 .
[ 20 ] J . Li , A . Ritter , and E . Hovy . Weakly supervised user profile extraction from twitter . In ACL , 2014 .
[ 21 ] W . Liu and D . Ruths . What ’s in a name ? using first names as features for gender inference in twitter . In Analyzing Microtext : 2013 AAAI Spring Symposium , 2013 .
[ 22 ] R . Macaulay . You’re like ‘why not?’ the quotative expressions of glasgow adolescents . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 5(1):3–21 , 2001 .
[ 23 ] R . Macaulay . Extremely interesting , very interesting , or only quite interesting ? adverbs and social class . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 6(3):398–417 , 2002 .
[ 24 ] L . Milroy and J . Milroy . Social network and social class : Toward an integrated sociolinguistic model . Language in society , 21(01):1–26 , 1992 .
[ 25 ] J . Nerbonne . Linguistic variation and computation . In
Proceedings of EACL , pages 3–10 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2003 .
[ 26 ] D . Nguyen , D . Trieschnigg , A . S . Dogru¨oz , R . Gravel ,
M . Theune , T . Meder , and F . D . Jong . Predicting Author Gender and Age from Tweets : Sociolinguistic Theories and Crowd Wisdom . In Proceedings of COLING 2014 , 2014 .
[ 27 ] J . Rickford and M . Price . Girlz ii women :
Age grading , language change and stylistic variation . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 17(2):143–179 , 2013 .
[ 28 ] R . B . Russ . Examining Regional Variation Through
Online Geotagged Corpora . PhD thesis , The Ohio State University , 2013 .
[ 29 ] J . E . Schmidt and J . Herrgen . Digitaler Wenker Atlas ( DiWA ) . Bearbeitet von Alfred Lameli , Tanja Giessler , Roland Kehrein , Alexandra Lenz , Karl Heinz M¨uller , Jost Nickel , Christoph Purschke und Stefan Rabanus . Erste vollst¨andige Ausgabe von Georg Wenkers “ Sprachatlas des Deutschen Reichs ” , 2001 .
[ 30 ] A . Søgaard . Zipfian corruptions for robust pos tagging . In NAACL , 2013 .
[ 31 ] A B Stenstr¨om . Taboos in teenage talk . Stockholm studies in English , 85:71–79 , 1995 .
[ 32 ] I . Stewart . Now we stronger than ever :
African american syntax in twitter . EACL 2014 , page 31 , 2014 .
461
