Understanding Multilingual Social Networks in Online
Immigrant Communities
Evangelos E . Papalexakis
Carnegie Mellon University
5000 Forbes Avenue
Pittsburgh , USA epapalex@cscmuedu
A . Seza Do˘gruöz Tilburg University PO Box 90153
Tilburg , The Netherlands asdogruoz@gmailcom
ABSTRACT There are more multilingual speakers in the world than monolingual ones . Immigration is one of the key factors to bring speakers of different languages in contact with each other . In order to develop relevant policies and recommendations tailored according to the needs of immigrant communities , it is essential to understand the interactions between the users within and across sub communities . Using a novel method ( tensor analysis ) , we reveal the social network structure of an online multilingual discussion forum which hosts an immigrant community in the Netherlands . In addition to the network structure , we automatically discover and categorize monolingual and bilingual sub communities and track their formation , evolution and dissolution over a long period of time .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ DATABASE MANAGEMENT ] : Database applications— Data mining ; H43 [ INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS ] : Communication Applications—Bulletin boards ; J.5 [ ARTS AND HUMANITIES ] : Linguistics
Keywords multilingual , social networks , internet
INTRODUCTION
1 . Speaking more than one language is more common than speaking a single language for millions of speakers around the world [ 4 ] . Bilingual speakers switch across language boundaries or mix them , depending on their communication partners , the topic of conversation and social factors in context [ 2 ] . Similar to face to face communication , bilingual speakers also switch across languages in online environments .
Human mobility through immigration is one of the main reasons for contact between speakers of different languages . We perceive multilingualism within immigrant communities as an enrichment to the host community rather than as an obstacle . It is essential for the policy makers to understand the social dynamics , topics of discussion , needs and expectations of the immigrant communities in order to make well informed decisions and provide them with better recommendations ( eg education , health , jobs ) . In this study , we propose a large scale social network analysis of an online multilingual community using a novel analytic method ( ie tensor analysis ) .
More specifically , we focus on an online immigrant Turkish community in the Netherlands . Turkish has been in contact with Dutch due to labor immigration since the 1960s and the Turkish community is the largest minority group ( 2 % of the whole population ) in the Netherlands [ 5 ] . Although the first generation did not learn Dutch beyond the basic level , second and third generations speak both Turkish and Dutch [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] . In addition to Turkish and Dutch , Arabic and English occur occasionally in communication as well .
We focus on the three aspects of social interaction in this study : • Discovering Sub communities : In addition to the pre determined sub forums created by moderators of the online forum , are there also sub communities that emerge naturally ? What are the common factors which bring these sub communities together ?
• Communication Patterns : Within each sub community , what are the emerging social interaction patterns ?
• Temporal Evolution : Sub communities are dynamic and their evolution ( from formation to dissolution ) is triggered by a variety of temporal events . How does the temporal aspect relate to the evolution of sub communities ?
Our contributions are as the following : • We introduce a novel method based on Tensor Analysis to model and analyze the multilingual communication in an immigrant online community .
• We identify the latent sub communities which are not directly visible by pre determined sub forums created by moderators .
• We analyze the largest ( in size ) and longest ( in duration ) mul tilingual online dataset for immigrant communities so far .
• We leverage automatic language identification in order to minimize human intervention throughout our analysis .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082743004
The rest of the paper is structured as follows : Section 2 outlines related work on multilingual communities . Section 4 provides a sketch of our proposed methodology , while Section 3 gives a concise overview of our data set . Section 5 shows our preliminary evaluation on our data set . Finally , we provide future directions and conclude our discussion in in Section 6 .
2 . RELATED RESEARCH
4 . METHODOLOGY
Multilingual communication has been widely investigated using small scale and mostly spoken data in Sociolinguistics [ 3 ] [ 22 ] [ 19 ] . In immigrant communities , it is very common to mix languages and/or switch across languages depending on the context and the communication parties involved . Each language contact situation is unique and it has been hard to reach a consensus about the terminology , constraints and types of language mixing [ 28][24][23 ] . Social factors are predicted to influence the communication between multilingual speakers more than the linguistic factors [ 26 ] [ 11 ] . Multilingual conversations have also been qualitatively analyzed in online environments [ 1][27][13 ] from various aspects . Some studies suggest a link between the topic of discussion and the language choices of multilingual communities [ 14 ] , [ 1 ] and [ 25 ] .
There is a growing interest within computational areas of research towards automatic language identification for multilingual texts [ 20 ] [ 18 ] [ 16 ] and compilation of mixed language corpora ( eg [ 6 ] for Arabic ) . More recently , there are also studies focusing on the social aspects of communication between the members of multilingual social networks [ 15],[10 ] , [ 12 ] . These studies mostly make use of Twitter data which differ from real life communication in terms of style and length of conversations .
In contrast to the prior work , we analyze a non Twitter data set ( ie online discussion forum ) which is closer to informal spoken communication in real life . Our proposed methodology enables us to track the temporal evolution of the online community and the topics that are discussed in sub communities that are not directly visible . 2.1 Challenges
Throughout this work , we face the following modelling and com putational challenges :
• We extract social networks through the comments posted on the online discussion forum . However , social media texts often include unconventional spellings .
• We need automatic language identification for topic model ing and building language profiles of users .
• We seek to extract dense sub communities of users who post specific tokens to a subset of subforums . Our data are already very sparse . When we introduce time as an additional dimension , the data become even sparser and make such extraction a computational challenge ( see Sections 4.3 and 53 )
3 . DATA
The data are extracted from an online forum that mainly hosts Turkish immigrants living in the Netherlands . The forum is online for fifteen years and has pre determined sub forums ( 28 ) on a variety of topics ( eg fashion , technology , food ) . Within the sub forums , moderators or users pose questions ( thread title ) for each thread . English and Arabic are used for less than 1 % for borrowed words and fixed multi word units . The data we record spans across 2741 days ( from June 2005 until December 2012 ) . The total number of users is over 14 thousand and the total number of posts throughout this period of time is over 4.5 million .
We used an automatic language identifier to label the language of the words in posts . In particular , we employ the technique used in [ 20 ] that achieves a word accuracy of 97 % ( [20 ] compares different techniques , however we chose the one that achieved the higher word level accuracy ) .
Our method is based on Tensor Analysis , a very powerful analytical tool that has a plethora of applications [ 17 ] . First , we will provide an introduction to tensors and tensor decompositions . Secondly , we describe how we model a multilingual online community within this framework . Finally , we sketch our tensor based algorithms in order to 1 ) discover latent bilingual sub communities automatically , 2 ) infer communication ties between members of each ( sub) community , 3 ) track the temporal profile of the hidden subcommunities . Tensors are denoted as X , matrices as X , and vectors as x . A n mode tensor is an n dimensional matrix ( eg a matrix is a two mode tensor , and a data cube is a three mode tensor ) . A detailed outline of tensor decompositions are available in [ 17 ] . For the current study , we focus on the Canonical ( PARAFAC decomposition ) , which is a simple , easy to interpret and highly used model in this area of research :
X ≈ F af ◦ bf ◦ cf f =1 where a ◦ bc is a rank one tensor ( or a rank one component of the decomposition ) and its ( i , j , k) th element is equal to a(i)b(j)c(k ) . We represent the decomposition as a set of three matrices A , B , C whose f th column is af , bf , cf respectively . 4.1 Automatic Discovery of Latent Sub Com munities
Currently , sub forums of a variety of topics are pre determined sub forums by the moderators and dedicated to the discussion of a variety of topics ( eg fashion , food ) in a top down manner . However , these sub forums are often very general and do not instantly reveal the sub communities that are dynamic and evolve over time . Instead , we follow a bottom up data driven approach to reveal the latent sub communities .
Our definition of sub community is a set of users , posting consistently a certain set of tokens on a particular set of sub forums . A token can be anything in a post ( eg a single term , a smiley/emoticon , a multi word expression , even a link to external content ) . Our methodology is generic enough to support a great variety of tokens . Therefore , each sub community has a notion of a latent discussion topic and a dominant language associated with that topic . The dominant language emerges through prominent tokens used by the particular sub community .
By accommodating a general set of tokens that a user can post ( eg emoticons , links etc ) , we face the challenge of assigning a language to a token that may not be a simple word . If a token refers to a link of external content , the language of that token is inferred via the dominant language of the external content . In the case of emoticons , we encounter two cases : some emoticons transcend language , eg : ) and some emoticons are specific to a particular language , eg [ smiley:liefde ] ( where “ liefde ” means “ love ” in Dutch ) which is a valid emoticon code in our online forum . For the purposes of the present work , we use the language tag that a token has received during the automatic language recognition step . An alternative choice would be to assign a neutral language label to such tokens . We leave analyzing the sensitivity of each particular choice for future work .
Sub communities as tensor components .
Figure 1 illustrates how we model and analyze the forum data into sub communities . As a first step , we model the forum as a three mode tensor , where the modes are ( user , subforum , token ) ; thus , the ( i , j , k ) value of tensor X indicates how many times user as a weighted sum of her participation to all F sub communities ( given by the user to sub community embedding matrix A ) and the Turkish and Dutch labels of those sub communities , respectively . Determining the individual user profiles are helpful for developing recommendation systems that are customized to the needs and preferences of a particular user or the sub communities that have members with similar profiles .
One straightforward way to achieve this goal is exhaustively enumerating all tokens posted by a user and measure the percentage of Turkish and Dutch words she uses . However , using the summary provided by the tensor decomposition has the following advantages :
• We can intuitively understand the language label of a user based on her participation in a variety of sub communities . For instance , if we know that a certain user participates by 80 % to an entirely Turkish sub community and by 20 % to an entirely Dutch one , then this user uses 80 % Turkish and 20 % Dutch by our definition . Looking back , we can argue why a user was profiled this way . Without the notion of a sub community ( which is introduced by our method ) , such intuitive explanation of a user ’s language profile is not possible .
• We use automatic language tagging , which is remarkably accurate , albeit not perfect . Automatic summarization of the data helps us to highlight the most prominent activity in the forum and underplays less frequent activity which is more prone to mislabelling .
Language Profiles of Subforums .
The online forum already contains a pre defined set of subforums ( 28 ) , roughly divided according to the topic of discussions . However , our sub communities span across more than one subforum . Therefore , it is worth investigating the language profile of a subforum given the language profiles of the sub communities that it is part of . We calculate the language profile per subforum the same way we did for users but we now use the latent embeddings of subforums to sub communities ( ie matrix B that stores the latent vectors bf of Fig 1 ) . 4.2
Inferring Communication Patterns & Uncovering the Hidden Social Network
Given the decomposition , we infer high degrees of communica tion between certain users . i posted token k on subforum j . Note that we start with a static representation of the forum to establish our methodology , and later incorporate time as an additional dimension ( see Section 43 )
Given tensor X , we analyze it using the PARAFAC decomposition and obtain a sum of rank one tensors ( ie a sum of triplets of vectors ) . Vectors af , bf , cf within a triplet are latent embeddings that correspond to users , sub forums , and tokens respectively . Each latent dimension of the embeddings defines a sub community , and the values of the embeddings declare the membership of each user , sub forum and token associated with each sub community . An intuitive way to interpret these embeddings is the following : High values on af refer to users with frequent participation in a certain sub community f . Accordingly , vectors bf and cf are interpreted similarly .
Figure 1 : Pictorial example of decomposing the forum into subcommunities by using the CP/PARAFAC decomposition .
Language Profiles of Sub communities .
Representing language profiles of the sub communities in an unsupervised way gives us invaluable insights about what holds the community together . We identify the main language of the latent topics discussed within each sub community automatically based on the tensor decomposition of the online forum . The decomposition produces latent embeddings for the users , sub forums and tokens .
The latent embeddings of the tokens that describe the latent topic of a particular sub community are the cf vectors , as shown in Fig 1 . For the f th sub community , the nonzero values of vector cf serve as membership coefficients of tokens to the latent topic of discussion in the sub community . We use a fully automatic method to tag every post based on the language of the tokens . In this way , we simply count the percentage of Turkish and Dutch tokens that belong to sub community f and assign a language label to the subcommunity . Depending on the particular mixture of the two languages , we label a sub community as mostly Turkish , mostly Dutch or bilingual ( Turkish and Dutch ) . We do not define a clear cut off for bilingual versus monolingual sub communities . If the Turkish and Dutch profiles of a sub community are within about 10 % then the sub community is most likely to be bilingual . As the percentage of a language decreases , the profile of the sub community shifts to monolingual .
Language Profiles of Users .
We determine the language profiles by assigning language labels to the sub communities but also to the individual users based on their level of participation in each sub community . More specifically , we compute the percentage of Turkish and Dutch she uses
Figure 2 : Inferring the hidden communication patterns
Figure 2 illustrates how we uncover the communication patterns between users at the sub community level by using the user embed
X + … + a1 aF b1 bF c1 cF user subforum Sub community1 ≈ user%1%user%2%Poli,ek%binnen%%%%%%%%%Chit3Chat%%%Mode%lifestyle%%user%2056%user%2057%Sub community F !"#"$%"$&"$'"$%"$&"$'"(%"(&"('"a1 a1T Sub community #1 Graph a1 b1 c1 $%"$&"$'"!"#"$%"$)"$%"$)"(%"()"(%*"a2 a2T Sub community #2 Graph a2 b2 c2 $%"$)"$%*"$%*"$%*" dings , ie vectors af as shown on Fig 1 . The non zero values of vector af indicate the users who participate in the particular subcommunity . In order to obtain the adjacency matrix of the graph between those users , we multiply af aT f , as shown in Fig 2 and obtain a user by user matrix .
We apply the same procedure to all F sub communities , deriving graphs that capture the communication patterns within each subcommunity . Subsequently , we use the local graphs to synthesize the inter sub community graph , that captures the interactions across different sub communities . To do so , it suffices to sum up all local adjacency matrices into a single adjacency matrix . Since the result is not always sparse , we set very small values on the adjacency matrices to zero , deciding the cut off point automatically . We do 2 means clustering on a vector that contains the non zero values of the matrix . Then , we take the cluster with the maximum mean and choose the cut off value to be equal to the smallest value in that cluster , such that any value below that threshold is zeroed out . In this way , we avoid interpreting the noise as connections between users in the same sub community or across sub communities . 4.3 Tracking the Sub Communities over Time So far , we described how we model the online multilingual community as a three mode tensor , ( user , sub forum , token as the modes ) . However , sub communities are not static . On the contrary , we observe various temporal profiles for each sub community . For instance , some sub communities are persistent over time , when the topic of discussion pertains to a relatively ( temporally ) stable topic . Whereas other sub communities are seasonal ( when their underlying topic recurs periodically : the fasting month of Ramadan every year , UEFA ’s Champions League for football ) , or even singular time events that last for a certain period of time and then disappear forever .
Our analysis sheds light to this temporal aspect . When we introduce a fourth mode ( ie date ) to our tensor in addition to the existing ones ( user , subforum , token ) , we extend the PARAFAC decomposition , introducing factors df that capture the temporal profile of each one of the f sub communities . More specifically , :
X ≈ F af ◦ bf ◦ cf ◦ df
5.1 Automatic Discovery of Latent Sub Com munities
First , we show results on the ( user , subforum , token ) tensor , extracting 15 sub communities . Table 1 is an indicative subset of the extracted sub communities ( we omit the user names for clarity and for privacy issues ) . One example of a bilingual sub community is #1 of Table 1 , where the underlying topic of discussion seems to be revolving around soccer ( popular soccer teams such as galatasaray and fenerbahce appear ) .
In addition to these sub communities , Figure 3 contains the language profiles of ( a ) sub communities , ( b ) users , and ( c ) subforums . We observe a variety of sub communities ( in terms of language profile ) spanning across the entire spectrum of almost entirely monolingual to bilingual ( with nearly equal participation of both Turkish and Dutch ) . This is in line with the previous literature which suggests that multilingual users utilize different languages or mix them for different topics of discussion [ 25 ] . 5.2
Inferring Communication/Social Ties
Figure 4 is a so called spy plot of the user to user interaction adjacency matrix obtained through our analysis of the forum to 15 sub communities . The rows and columns of the figure correspond to users of the forum , and a blue dot between the i th row and the j th column represents an inferred connection between those users . The upper part of the graph ( roughly corresponding to about 2000 users ) shows high degrees of activity and dense interconnection between users . The rest of the users ( which are the majority ) show very faint , close to none , interconnection . In other words , the user communication is highly skewed in this forum . It is common for many users in social media to create an account and rarely use it for various possible reasons ( eg losing interest , losing log in credentials , creating fake or secondary accounts for activities like trolling ) . On the other hand , there is an an active subset of users who are in the core of the community and engage in daily conversation with each other . The next step is to identify these highly active users and develop recommendation systems targeting their needs and expectations . f =1 and , as previously , we represent the temporal profiles of all F subcommunities as the columns of matrix D . By augmenting our analysis with a fourth mode , we introduce a new challenge that is not obvious at first sight . Suppose that our data have a certain number of observed ( non zero ) entries , which are distributed across the three modes of ( user , sub forum , token ) . When we introduce the fourth mode , we keep the number of observed entries constant , while increasing the space that these entries can occupy . This results in greater sparsity of data which were already highly sparse and poses challenges for the extraction of coherent components .
5 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS From the forum data , we create two different tensors : a three mode ( user , subforum , token ) tensor of size 14593× 28× 3053917 ( with density 7×10−5 ) and a time evolving ( user , subforum , token , day ) of size 14593 × 28 × 3053917 × 2741 ( with density 3 × 10−8 ) . We define the density as the number of non zero entries in the data , divided by the product of the dimension ( ie a fully dense tensor will have density equal to 1 ) . As expected , the data we are dealing with are high dimensional and highly sparse . We use ParCube [ 21 ] , a fast and scalable tensor decomposition algorithm that handles data of this volume efficiently .
Figure 4 : Inferred network between users with strong communication ties
5.3 Tracking the Sub Communities over Time To track down the temporal profile of sub communities , we introduced the “ day ” mode , which is included in the four mode ( user ,
Sub community #
Subforums
Tokens
Jongeren & seksualiteit
Politiek binnen & buitenland
[ smiley:grin ] , een , je , : ) , galatasaray , als , te , yok , iyi , [ smiley:bleh ] , sonra , wat , cok , fenerbahche ,
1
4
8
10
Islam & Ik Verhalen Feedback Islam & Ik Islam & Ik
Mode lifestyle & trends
Politiek binnen &
Turks uitgaan & Vrije tijd
Islam & Ik Chit Chat mi , gol , adam , bi , degil , son , icin , ilk [ smiley:grin ] , allah , hz , icin , sonra cok , yok , ebu , [ smiley:bleh ] , mi , bi , degil , : ) sana , zaman , iyi , kabul , sezon , milli , guzel , hadis je , een , te , als , ajanslar , wat , mensen , bakanÄ´s politie , worden , moslims , turkije , wordt , buitenland , deze bildirildi , twee , hier , veel , turkmenlerin , gaat , doen , land . kaydetti , tegen je , een , te , wat , [ smiley:grin ] , [ smiley:bleh ] , echt , ga , mensen , weet , hier , doen , wil , goed , mn , man , nee , vind , gaan , gaat
Language Distribution ( TR/Dutch )
0.52 / 0.48
0.72 / 0.28
0.2 / 0.8
0.04 / 0.96
Table 1 : This table illustrates 4 different sub communities with different language distributions . Top to bottom : bilingual , mostly Turkish , mostly Dutch , almost exclusively Dutch . For each sub community we show the participating subforums ( in ranked order ) , and the top tokens .
( a ) Per Sub community
( b ) Per User
( c ) Per Subforum
Figure 3 : Language profiles as computed using our method . subforum , token , day ) tensor . This mode records the day when a particular user posted a token in a particular subforum . Including time as a mode is very crucial to our analysis but it comes with a price . When we include it , the density of the tensor drops from 7 × 10−5 to 3 × 10−8 . The number of non zero entries remains constant but the dimensions grow . This increased sparsity makes the extraction of dense sub communities a computationally harder problem . Although ParCube [ 21 ] can handle this , we do not obtain the exact same sub communities as in the three mode case . This is an unavoidable side effect of the increased sparsity .
In Figure 5 , we show the temporal profile of a sub community on a daily basis . In particular , the sub community , which our method profiled as bilingual , appears to be active the entire life time of the forum , exhibiting spikes of activity that appear to have periodic behavior . Via manual inspection of the tokens , we conclude that the discussion topic is religion and the activity of the sub community peaks around the month of Ramadan every year . This is a single example of temporal behavior that we encountered . Other examples contain single spikes of activity which indicate the formation and ending a sub community during the lifetime of the forum . We reserve further investigation of such temporal dynamics in detail for future work .
Figure 5 : Temporal profile of a bilingual sub community discussed in Section 5.3
6 . CONCLUSIONS
We have presented preliminary work on modelling and analyzing large scale , online multilingual communities in an immigrant setting . We propose a novel and effective methodology that automatically identifies the sub communities within an online multilingual community , classifies them per language usage , discovers the hidden , underlying social networks between the users who participate in discussions and track the formation , evolution , and dissolution of sub communities over time . We apply our method to the largest and longest in duration multilingual online forum data set , showing promising and intuitive results of our proposed methodology .
1234567891011121314150020406081Sub−community #Language Distribution per Sub−community DutchTurkish0500010000150000020406081UserLanguage Distribution per User DutchTurkish0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Islam & Ik Turks uitgaan & Vrije tijd Turkse jongeren Liefde & relaties Uiterlijke verzorging & Verhalen Feedback Chit Chat Politiek binnen & buitenland Jongeren & seksualiteit Turkse Muziek Films & Boeken Sport Contact gezocht Huwelijk & Islam Studie & Werk Turkse trouwpartijen Geschiedenis Kunst & Cultuur Turks nieuws & actualiteiten Comedy hoekje Ramadan Special Turkish Delight & Cuisine Vraag & Aanbod Poetry Games Software & Wannahaves Vakantie & uitstapjes Mode lifestyle & trends Islam & verhalen Overige Levensbeschouwingen Wetenschap en filosofie Language Distribution per Subforum Dutch Turkish 05001,00015002,0002500001020304DayActivity Although preliminary , our results are encouraging for recommendation systems and policy making . Data driven approaches are especially necessary to assist policy makers in making well informed decisions for immigrant communities . Future studies are welcome to analyze the communication patterns in other immigrant communities around the world to make comparisons and learn from the practices of each other . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The first author was supported by the National Science Foundation Grant No . IIS 1247489 . The second author was supported by Digital Humanities Research grant from Tilburg University ( Netherlands ) . Any opinions , findings , and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the funding parties . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Androutsopoulos . The Multilingual Internet , chapter Language choice and code switching in German based diasporic web forums , pages 340–361 . Oxford University Press , 2007 .
[ 2 ] P . Auer . A conversation analytic approach to code switching and transfer . Codeswitching : Anthropological and sociolinguistic perspectives , 48:187–213 , 1988 .
[ 3 ] P . Auer . Code switching in conversation : Language , interaction and identity . Routledge , 2013 .
[ 4 ] P . Auer and L . Wei . Handbook of multilingualism and multilingual communication . , chapter Introduction : Multilingualism as a problem ? Monolingualism as a problem , pages 1–14 . Berlin : Mouton de Gruyter , 2007 . [ 5 ] Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek . Bevolking , generatie , geslacht , leeftijd en herkomstgroepering . 2013 . , 2013 .
[ 6 ] R . Cotterell , A . Renduchintala , N . Saphra , and
C . Callison Burch . An algerian arabic french code switched corpus . In LREC , 2014 .
[ 7 ] A . S . Do˘gruöz and A . Backus . Postverbal elements in immigrant Turkish : Evidence of change ? International Journal of Bilingualism , 11(2):185–220 , 2007 .
[ 8 ] A . S . Do˘gruöz and A . Backus . Innovative constructions in Dutch Turkish : An assessment of ongoing contact induced change . Bilingualism : Language and Cognition , 12(01):41–63 , 2009 .
[ 9 ] A . S . Do˘gruöz and S . T . Gries . Spread of on going changes in an immigrant language Turkish in the Netherlands . Review of Cognitive Linguistics , 10(2 ) , 2012 .
[ 10 ] I . Eleta and J . Golbeck . Bridging languages in social networks : How multilingual users of twitter connect language communities ? Proceedings of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 49(1):1–4 , 2012 . [ 11 ] P . Gardner Chloros and M . Edwards . Assumptions behind grammatical approaches to code switching : When the blueprint is a red herring . Transactions of the Philological Society , 102(1):103–129 , 2004 .
[ 12 ] S . A . Hale . Global connectivity and multilinguals in the twitter network . In Proceedings of the 32nd annual ACM conference on Human factors in computing systems , pages 833–842 . ACM , 2014 .
[ 13 ] V . Hinnenkamp . Deutsch , Doyc or Doitsch ? Chatters as languagers–The case of a German–Turkish chat room . International Journal of Multilingualism , 5(3):253–275 , 2008 .
[ 14 ] J . W . Y . Ho . Code mixing : Linguistic form and socio cultural meaning . The International Journal of Language Society and Culture , 21 , 2007 .
[ 15 ] S . Kim , I . Weber , L . Wei , and A . Oh . Sociolinguistic analysis of twitter in multilingual societies . In Proceedings of the 25th ACM Conference on Hypertext and Social Media , HT , volume 14 , pages 243–248 , 2014 .
[ 16 ] B . King and S . P . Abney . Labeling the languages of words in mixed language documents using weakly supervised methods . In HLT NAACL , pages 1110–1119 , 2013 . [ 17 ] T . Kolda and B . Bader . Tensor decompositions and applications . SIAM review , 51(3 ) , 2009 .
[ 18 ] M . Lui , J . H . Lau , and T . Baldwin . Automatic detection and language identification of multilingual documents . Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2:27–40 , 2014 .
[ 19 ] C . Myers Scotton . Social motivations for codeswitching :
Evidence from Africa . Oxford University Press , 1995 .
[ 20 ] D . Nguyen and A . S . Do˘gruöz . Word level language identification in online multilingual communication . In Proceedings of EMNLP 2013 , 2013 .
[ 21 ] E . E . Papalexakis , C . Faloutsos , and N . D . Sidiropoulos . Parcube : Sparse parallelizable tensor decompositions . In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases , pages 521–536 . Springer , 2012 .
[ 22 ] S . Poplack . Sometimes i’ll start a sentence in spanish y termino en espanol : toward a typology of code switching1 . Linguistics , 18(7 8):581–618 , 1980 .
[ 23 ] S . Poplack , D . Sankoff , and C . Miller . The social correlates and linguistic processes of lexical borrowing and assimilation . Linguistics , 26(1):47–104 , 1988 .
[ 24 ] S . Romaine . Bilingualism ( 2nd edn ) . Malden , MA : Blackwell
Publishers , 1995 .
[ 25 ] D . Tang , T . Chou , N . Drucker , A . Robertson , W . C . Smith , and J . T . Hancock . A tale of two languages : strategic self disclosure via language selection on facebook . In Proceedings of the ACM 2011 conference on Computer supported cooperative work , pages 387–390 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 26 ] S . G . Thomason and T . Kaufman . Language contact .
Edinburgh University Press Edinburgh , 2001 .
[ 27 ] L . Tsaliki . Globalization and hybridity : the construction of greekness on the internet . The Media of Diaspora , Routledge , London , 2003 .
[ 28 ] L . Wei . Codeswitching in conversation : Language , interaction and identity , chapter The ’why’ and ’how’ questions in the analysis of conversational codeswitching , pages 156–176 . Routledge , 1998 .
