Topic aware Social Influence Minimization
Qipeng Yao1,2 , Chuan Zhou2 , Ruisheng Shi1 , Peng Wang2and Li Guo2
1Education Ministry Key Laboratory of Trustworthy Distributed Computing and Service ,
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications , Beijing , China
2 Institute of Information Engineering , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing , China
{zhouchuan,guoli,wangpeng}@iieaccn,shiruisheng@bupteducn yaoqipeng0706@gmail.com ,
ABSTRACT In this paper , we address the problem of minimizing the negative influence of undesirable things in a network by blocking a limited number of nodes from a topic modeling perspective . When undesirable thing such as a rumor or an infection emerges in a social network and part of users have already been infected , our goal is to minimize the size of ultimately infected users by blocking k nodes outside the infected set . We first employ the HDP LDA and KL divergence to analysis the influence and relevance from a topic modeling perspective . Then two topic aware heuristics based on betweenness and out degree for finding approximate solutions to this problem are proposed . Using two real networks , we demonstrate experimentally the high performance of the proposed models and learning schemes . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications Data Mining General Terms Method , Performance Keywords Influence Minimization ; Blocking Nodes ; Social Networks 1 .
INTRODUCTION
The online social networks can launch diffusion including not only positive information such as innovations , hot topics , and novel ideas , but also negative information like malicious rumors and disinformation [ 2 ] . Take the rumor for example , even with a small number of its initial adopters , the quantity of the ultimately infected users can be large due to triggering a word of mouth cascade in the network . Therefore , it is an urgent research issue to design effective strategies for reducing the influence coverage of the negative information . This problem has received a good deal of attention by the data mining research community in the last decade [ 3 , 4 ] , but quite surprisingly , the characteristics of the item being the subject of the influence minimization has been left out of the picture .
In this paper , we aim to minimize the spread of an existing undesirable thing by blocking a limited number of nodes in a network from a topic modeling perspective . More
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742767 specifically , when some undesirable thing starts with some initial nodes and diffuses through the network under the topic aware independent cascade ( TIC ) model , we consider finding a set of k nodes such that the resulting network by blocking those nodes can minimize the expected contamination area of the undesirable thing , where k is a given positive integer . We refer to this combinatorial optimization problem as the influence minimization problem . For this problem , we fisrt employ the HDP LDA and KL divergence to analysis the authoritativeness , influence and relevance from a topic modeling perspective . Then we propose two topic aware heuristics based on betweenness and out degree for finding approximate solutions to the problem . With two large real networks including Sina microblog and Facebook , we experimentally demonstrate that the proposed topic aware noderemoval heuristics outperform the well studied notions of centrality measures . 2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION
To model the topic aware social influence , we adopt the Topic aware Independent Cascade ( TIC ) Model [ 1 ] , where the user to user influence probabilities depend on the topic . Therefore , for each arc ( v , u ) ∈ E and each topic z ∈ [ 1 , K ] we are given a probability pz v,u , representing the strength of the influence exerted by user v on user u on topic z . Moreover for each item i ∈ I that propagates in the network , we have a distribution over the topics , that is for each topic z ∈ [ 1 , K ] we are given γz i = 1 . In this model a propagation happens like in the IC model : when a node v first becomes active on item i , has one chance of influencing each inactive neighbor u , independently of the history thus far . The tentative succeeds with a probability that is the weighted average of the link probability wrt the topic distribution of the item i : pi i = P ( Z = z|i ) , withK v,u =K z=1 γz v,u . i pz z=1 γz
Under the directed graph G = ( V , E ) , the influence spread of the initially infected set S , which is the ultimately expected number of infected nodes , is denoted as σ(S|V ) .
Now we present a mathematical definition for the influence minimization problem . Assume the negative information spreads in the network G = ( V , E ) with initially infected nodes S ⊆ V , our goal here is to minimize the number of ultimately infected nodes by blocking k nodes ( or vertices ) of set D ∈ V , where k ( |V | ) is a given const . It can be formulated as the following optimization problem :
∗
D
= arg min
( 1 ) where σ(S|V \D ) denotes the influence ( number of ultimately infected nodes ) of S when the node set D is blocked .
D⊆V,|D|≤k
σ,SfifiV \D
139 3 . ANALYSIS AND SOLUTION
The problem of learning the parameters of the TIC models takes in input the social graph G = ( V , E ) , a log of past propagations D , and an integer K , which can be learnt by the Latent Dirichlet Allocation based on Hierarchical Dirichlet Process ( HDP LDA ) method . The propagation log is a relation ( User,Item,Time ) where a tuple ( u , i , t ) ∈ D indicates that user u adopted item i at time t . The output of the learning problem is the set of all parameters of the TIC propagation model , which we denote Θ : these are γz i and v,u for all i ∈ I , ( v , u ) ∈ E , and z ∈ [ 1 , K ] . Assuming that pz each propagation trace is independent from the others , the likelihood of the data given the model parameters Θ , can i∈I log L(Θ ; Di ) . We then adopt the standard EM inference of parameters Θ for TIC . We calculate the topic distributions of each uninfected node w and negative information i via HDP LDA , then calculate the KL divergences d(w , i ) between node w and information i from the topic perspective . be expressed as : L(Θ ; D ) =
Now we are back to the optimal problem ( 1 ) , any straightforward method for exact solution suffers from combinatorial explosion for a large network . Therefore , we consider approximately solving the problem , while a natural idea is to block the nodes in the neighborhood of infected set . Specifically , given the initially infected set S and the negative information i , define the neighborhood set N ( S ) like
N ( S ) :=(v ∈ V \S : ∃u ∈ S , s . t . ( u , v ) ∈ E ) .
We want to block k susceptible nodes in the set N ( S ) to minimize the negative influence . Since the set N ( S ) is usually very large ( ie |N ( S)| * k ) , a natural question arises , how to select k susceptible nodes from the set N ( S ) to block in order to make the ultimate influence as small as possible ? In this paper , given the negative information i ∈ I , we introduce two scoring methods for the nodes in N ( S ) , and then select k nodes with the highest scores as the objectives to block . that the smaller d(w , i ) is , the more susceptible the node w is ; and the bigger b(w ) or o(w ) is , the more pivotal the node w is . Hence blocking the nodes with the highest topicaware betweenness and outdegree score should be effective for preventing the spread of contamination in the network .
4 . EXPERIMENT RESULTS
We experimentally evaluate the performance of our proposed approaches on two networks . One is crawled from Sina microblog containing 2,000 nodes , 14,426 edges and the propagation log . The other is Facebook data acquired from Stanford Network Analysis Project containing 4,039 nodes and 88,234 edges , where the topic probability for each user is created by the HDP LDA model . We use the Gibbs sampling method to estimate the hyper parameters γ , α0 and H in HDP LDA . We employ the Monte Carlo simulation of TIC model to estimate the influence spread .
From the results in Fig 1 , we can observe that the ultimate influence spreads by Topic aware heuristics are significantly reduced compared to that by Out degree and Betweenness centralities , especially in the early stage . For the infected set S with |S| = 50 on Sina microblog , we can observe that the proposed method can reduce the negative spread from 320 to 180 by blocking 60 nodes . Here the blocked 60 nodes only accounts to 15 % of the nodes that are connected to infected nodes . Although the performance is improved greatly , the time cost of topic aware heuristics are still in the same magnitude with centrality measures . b(w ) = u∈S,v∈V \S n(w ; u , v ) N ( u , v )
( 2 )
Figure 1 : Experiment result on two data sets
Topic aware Betweenness scoring method . Given the initially infected nodes S , the betweenness score b(w ) of a node w ∈ N ( S ) is defined as follows : where N ( u , v ) denotes the number of the shortest paths from node u to node v in G , and n(w ; u , v ) denotes the number of those paths that pass w . Here we set n(w ; u , v)/N ( u , v ) = 0 if N ( u , v ) = 0 . We defined the topic aware betweenness as tb(w ) = b(w ) d(w , i )
.
( 3 )
Topic aware Out degree scoring method . Previous work has shown that simply removing nodes in order of decreasing out degrees works well for preventing the spread of contamination in most real networks [ 4 ] . Here we focus on the contaminated set S and the corresponding i ∈ I . We define the out degree score o(w ) of node w ∈ N ( S ) as the number of non contaminative nodes around w . We defined the topic aware out degree as to(w ) = o(w ) d(w , i )
.
( 4 )
Definition ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are reasonable , since we can find
Acknowledgement . This work was supported by National Grand Fundamental Research 973 Program of China under Grant No.2013CB329605 , Chinese Universities Scientific Fund under Grant No.BUPT2014RC0701 , National Science and Technology Support Program of China under Grant No.2013BAH43F00 01 , and Strategic Leading Science and Technology Projects of CAS ( NoXDA06030200 )
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] N . Barbieri , F . Bonchi , and G . Manco . Topic aware social influence propagation models . In Proc . ICDM 2012 , pages 81–90 . IEEE Computer Society .
[ 2 ] C . Budak , D . Agrawal , and A . El Abbadi . Limiting the spread of misinformation in social networks . In Proc . WWW 2011 , pages 665–674 . ACM .
[ 3 ] M . Kimura , K . Saito , and H . Motoda . Minimizing the spread of contamination by blocking links in a network . In AAAI , volume 8 , pages 1175–1180 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] S . Wang , X . Zhao , Y . Chen , Z . Li , K . Zhang , and J . Xia . Negative influence minimizing by blocking nodes in social networks . In AAAI ( Late Breaking Developments ) , 2013 .
140
