whoVIS : Visualizing Editor Interactions and Dynamics in
Collaborative Writing Over Time
Computational Social Science Group
GESIS Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences
Fabian Flöck fabianfloeck@gesisorg
Maribel Acosta
Institute AIFB
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology maribelacosta@kitedu
ABSTRACT The visualization of editor interaction dynamics and provenance of content in revisioned , collaboratively written documents has the potential to allow for more transparency and intuitive understanding of the intricate mechanisms inherent to collective content production . Although approaches exist to build editor interactions from individual word changes in Wikipedia articles , they do not allow to inquire into individual interactions , and have yet to be implemented as usable end user tools . We thus present whoVIS , a web tool to mine and visualize editor interactions in Wikipedia over time . whoVIS integrates novel features with existing methods , tailoring them to the use case of understanding intra article disagreement between editors . Using real Wikipedia examples , our system demonstrates the combination of various visualization techniques to identify different social dynamics and explore the evolution of an article that would be particularly hard for end users to investigate otherwise . Categories and Subject Descriptors [ Collaborative and social computing ] : Collaborative content creation ; [ Human centered computing ] : Visual analytics Keywords Visualization , Interface , Graph models , Social Networks , Wikipedia , Online Collaboration , Social Dynamics
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Wikipedia as a socio technical system has received its fair share of attention over the last decade . Yet , understanding the collaborative writing history of an article as a casual user , editor or even researcher in an easy , intuitive way ( ie , without relying on elaborate statistical analysis ) is still a hard task . There is a lack of transparency regarding the editing process on Wikipedia : it is fully documented in the revision history , but not in a way that is straightforward to browse , inspect and analyze by humans in all its intricacy . For instance , one cannot easily discover which words were contributed by what author or what specific dynamics governed the rise of disagreement between editors on particular content in the article . This information would be key to enable accountability and social transparency , as has been argued by Suh et al . [ 4 ] , but is effectively hidden from the user due to the innate complexity .
While some related interactive visual interfaces like , eg , “ Wikidashboard ” , “ Wikitrust ” and community solutions have been proposed,1 tools that allow readers to visually explore the dynamic relationships between editors that emerge from the main activity in 1(a ) For community tools see http://enwikipediaorg/ wiki/Wikipedia:Tools . ( b ) Wikidashboard [ 4 ] visualizes edits over time by contributors , but does not track changed content . the system – the collaborative writing process of adding , deleting and restoring specific content – are not available or are not equipped for the purpose of accurately reflecting all relevant interactions of editors with each other and the content .
In this work , we therefore construct and visualize editor editor networks over time ( per revision ) , derived from the collaborative editing actions on the word level of single articles.2 We introduce whoVIS , a novel , interactive Web tool for investigating the collaborative writing process of a Wikipedia article that combines all of the following features : ( i ) mining ( re)introduction and delete actions of editors on each other ’s written text at word granularity with proven accuracy , to infer and model editor editor disagreement , ( ii ) a custom graph drawing method for disagreement edges in Wikipedia editing that offers a meaningful depiction of the ongoing disputes in the article , ( iii ) an interface for interactively exploring the emerging network graph in a specific article over revisions , enriched with meta information on editors and edges , ( iv ) a drill down feature to learn how a specific edge between editors was constructed and which words were disagreed about ( “ edge context ” ) and ( v ) several auxiliary metrics over time that can be employed for better exploration and understanding of the main network graph .
The principal contribution of this work is a working and usable system built on top of established techniques to mine and visualize Wikipedia interactions , which are enriched with new features tailored for this use case ( in particular , revision wise graph exploration over time , and edge context ) . In doing so , we showcase how authorship and interaction mining from revisioned , collaborative writing can be transformed into a useful visual interface for exploring social dynamics and the provenance of content .
A demonstration of the system is available online at http:// kmaifbkitedu/sites/whovis/demohtml .3
2 . RELATED WORK
Some scientific works treat the construction of intra article , editorto editor networks based on the edit actions of users . Suh et al . [ 5 ] construct and draw networks of editors where a “ negative ” edge ( u,v ) indicates editor u completely reverting a revision submitted by v , removing v ’s content . Still , in [ 5 ] disagreement is detected only where an editor resets the article content to an exact duplicate of an earlier revision . Although this method covers a large part of edit actions , it does not comprise all reverts and disagreement ac
( c ) Wikitrust provides word provenance information , but not interactions of editors : http://wikitrustsoeucscedu/ 2In contrast to inferring editor networks based on co editing of pages . While it is possible to ex post merge several networks of articles via editors they share , we focus here on the interactions that lead up to the content of a specific article revision . 3For wider public access we consider anonymization of editors . tions ( eg , partial reverts ) . Consequently , Brandes et al . , who initially proposed a similar approach , recognize in later work [ 1 ] that this method does “ not consider who deletes how much of whose edits or who restores whose edits deleted by whom . However , [ ] it is exactly this information that enables us to characterize individual authors and groups of authors ” . To enable a more fine grained network construction and depiction , they hence improve this method in [ 1 ] to infer an edge ( v,u ) , weighted with the exact words written by editor u that were subsequently ( dis)agreed on by editor v .
Similarly , Maniu et al . [ 3 ] infer a signed network of positive ( agree ) and negative ( disagree ) relations between editors by ( among other relationships ) extracting changed words via text deltas . However , to verify if an edit actually constitutes a revert to a former revision , the actual text editing actions are not taken into account but only the fairly sparse edit comments .
None of these approaches have seen an implementation as an interactive web interface for revision wise network exploration yet , and neither offers possibilities for exploring from what content dissent specific edges were constructed .
3 . NETWORK CONSTRUCTION AND VI
SUALIZATIONS
3.1 Mining of editor text interactions
As a basis for the construction of the editor interaction network , we use the “ WikiWho ” algorithm [ 2 ] that computes , per revision , the authorship of each word ( token ) within a Wikipedia article.4 WikiWho has been shown to fulfill this task more accurately ( avg . 95 % correct authorship attribution ) and efficiently than previous solutions . It thereby can guarantee a certain degree of quality of the base data we build our editor interaction extraction upon . In this work , we extend WikiWho5 to track which editors add , delete and reintroduce which tokens of the article text . In case of deletion , our extension of WikiWho monitors who has originally , ie , for the first time , written the text ; in case of reintroduction , it keeps track of the original author and the deleter of the restored text , as well as any additional delete or reintroduce actions by any later editors . 3.2 Network model Constructing interaction edges between editors over time
To model how the edit actions of an editor relate her to other editors , we extend the model introduced by Brandes et al . [ 1 ] . Yet , as outlined in Section 1 , we aim to provide the editor interaction network graph for each revision of the article to illustrate its evolution over time , instead of showing only the state of the network at the last available revision . Moreover , even when drawing the network of every revision ri in the sequence , merely aggregating for all editors all interaction edges stemming from all previous revisions r1 , , ri is not sufficient for our visualization use case for two reasons . ( i ) The network graph quickly grows to be cluttered with a high amount of nodes and edges ( already at around 70 90 revisions for most articles ) and it thus becomes impractical for a user to distinguish interactions between individual editors or see patterns in a sub graph as nodes and edges highly overlap . ( ii ) The “ current state ” of recent interactions patterns for a revision is not ( easily ) observable if graph elements generated in older revisions never disappear and thus can be hardly distinguished from recently created elements that might highlight a currently more relevant editing dynamic . On these grounds , we draw the editor network for each re4 “ Tokens ” are in most cases natural language words , but can also refer to special characters , see the definition in [ 2 ] . 5Source code : https://github.com/wikiwho/whovis vision ri by excluding all actions previous to a threshold ( window ) ri−ω ; we used ω = 50 for the presented implementation .
In the following , we provide a formal definition of the network interactions employed in this work . Given a Wikipedia page p and its history of revisions r1 , , rN , the edit interaction network associated with p is defined as an N tuple Gω = ( G1 , , GN ) where ω is the window size and each Gi is defined as follows : Gi = ( Vi , Ei , αi , wi ) is the graph of interactions occuring within the window , ie , between revisions ri−ω and ri .
The nodes Vi correspond to editors that have done at least one edit on p between ri−ω and ri , or authors with at least one word originally written by them still present in ri . The set of edges Ei ⊆ Vi × Vi encodes the edit interactions among editors . An edge ( u , v ) ∈ Ei if editor u performed one of the following actions towards v : ( a ) u deletes text that has been originally written by v ; the number of words deleted by u in ri and written by v at earlier revision rj(rj < ri ) is denoted as deletei(u , v ) ;
( b ) u undoes a delete by v by reintroducing the deleted text ; the number of words restored by u in ri , deleted by v at revision rj(rj < ri ) is denoted by undo_deletei(u , v ) ;
( c ) as an extension to [ 1 ] we include a further crucial relation that often appears in conflicts or after vandalism : u undoes a reintroduction of text by v , while the text originally could have been written by a different author ; undo_reintroi(u , v ) denotes the number of words deleted by u in revision ri , reintroduced by v at revision rj(rj < ri ) . This type of action is always linked to a delete action that triggers the creation of an edge ( u , w ) ∈ Ei , since u deletes words originally written by w during the undo of the reintroduction of v in ri . αi : Vi → N , for each node u ∈ Vi , αi(u ) corresponds to the number of words in ri that are originally authored by u .
: Ei → N corresponds to the edge weight function . wi It measures the disagreement between editors u and v . For each ( u , v ) ∈ Ei , wi(u , v ) is calculated as follows : i deletej ( u , v ) + undo_deletej ( u , v ) + undo_reintroj ( u , v ) j=i−ω
In accordance with Brandes et al . , these relationships are interpreted as disagreement ( or negative ) edges between editors . Positive relationships are not included for this work.6 3.3 Auxiliary metrics
We define several metrics that can help to guide a user by ( i ) providing additional information about the editor relations and patterns explorable in the interaction graph ( described in Section 3.5 ) to better understand their meaning and ( ii ) by highlighting potentially interesting phases in the development of the article for targetoriented navigating of the sequence of network states per revision . Given a graph Gi = ( Vi , Ei , αi , wi ) of the edit interaction network , we define : ( i ) Number of Disagreement Actions : The total number of negative actions , computed as the sum of all the values in wi . ( ii ) Bipolarity [ 1 ] : Degree of how well editors are divided into two poles of disagreement . ( iii ) Authorship Gini Coefficient : Measures how equal the authorship of tokens is distributed over the editors that have contributed to the content of revision ri . Let c be the sequence of the n editors that own at least one token in ri , indexed in non decreasing order of authorship ( α ) , we define : authorship_ginii = 6Although “ agreement ” relations between u and v ( eg , “ restore ” and “ redelete ” ) can be inferred by our method , we reserve this extension for future work , as they are neither crucial for the used drawing method ( cf . Section 3.5 ) , nor easily combinable with it .
2·n n j=1 j·αi(cj ) j=1 αi(cj ) − n+1 n
Figure 1 : Inspection of the highlighted edge between SuperMagician and Derek.cashman in “ Tropical Storm Alberto ( 2006 ) ” via edge context ( compressed illustration ) reveals a dispute about style policies for headings , while parallel disagreements are minor or concern fact updates rather than clashes of opinions .
Figure 2 : Top : two instances of temporal bipolar graph structures can be identified for targeted inspection at mark up #1 and #2 in the bipolarity chart underneath . Bottom : auxiliary metrics , marked at the jumps of authorship concentration ( #2 ) and total negative actions/reciprocal disagreement ( #3 ) help finding changed editing dynamics after “ featured article ” status is reached ( featured article indicator from “ additional metrics ” not shown ) .
3.5 Visualization Implementation wi(u,v ) z∈Vi wi(u,z )
( iv ) Disagreement Focus : High values indicate that the negative actions performed in ri by u are particularly targeting editor v ; calculated as : f ocusi(u , v ) = ( v ) Reciprocity : Mutual disagreement over time between editors u and v in ri , denoted as reciprocityi(u , v ) , is modeled as a weight function ( weight φ ∈ [ 0.0 ; 1.0 ] ) of the portion of content in disagreement between u and v in ri and the average disagreement focus of u and v in the window ω : φ · min(wi(u,v),wi(v,u ) ) ( 1 − φ ) · avgi−ω≤j≤i({f ocusj(u , v ) , f ocusj(v , u)} ) 3.4 Edge Context : Explaining Disagreement max(wi(u,v),wi(v,u ) ) +
In existing solutions for depiction of editor interaction in Wikipedia it is close to impossible for a user to understand what exactly editors were ( dis)agreeing about from the plain network edges and hence what originated the edges in the first place . We thus introduce edge context . When clicking an edge , all disagreement actions leading to the creation of that edge in the graph will appear below the graph , so as to understand the disagreement in better detail . The context lists all revisions that contained the delete , undo_delete and undo_reintro actions the selected edge is based on , from node u to node v and vice versa ( listed left and right , cf . Figure 1 ) . Each token being target of a specific action is highlighted and depicted with the closest four tokens to the left and to the right as seen by the editor at the time she took the action . If the direct neighbour tokens of two affected tokens overlap , they are merged . Removals of tokens ( delete , undo_reintro ) are highlighted in red , adding of tokens ( undo_delete ) in green . The edit comment and the source and target revisions for the action are displayed , and a link is given to the Wikipedia “ diff ” for the revision.7 7Text diff by Wikiwho and Mediawiki can differ in some instances , which does not imply one of the methods being objectively wrong . by u , ie , ratioi(u ) = αi(u)/
The visualization ( Fig 1 ) is implemented using libraries based on D3;8 our extension of “ WikiWho" was realized in Python 276 After selecting an article , users visualize the editor network and a plot of the metrics from Section 33 Users can navigate the editor network over time via a slider or skip buttons . In addition , whoVis offers two more view tabs : “ ownership ” , and “ additional metrics ” . Given a revision ri , the ratio of a node u ∈ Vi in the graph is proportional to the percentage of words in ri that were authored v∈V i αi(v ) . A minimum ratio is defined to make nodes visible even if the editor did not author any text in ri . Every node is assigned a color ; this allows for easily tracking nodes when their position changes over time . The node of the editor of ri is highlighted with a dark colored border . Nodes can be dragged to clear any potential overlap of graphical elements ; hovering over a node will highlight all connected nodes .
The coordinates of nodes are computed with the approach by Brandes et al . [ 1 ] . This technique is the most fitting as nodes are unvaryingly placed in the center of the graph if they are neutral to each other or only do small corrections , while high disagreement nodes get “ pushed out ” to the periphery . The algorithm computes the eigenbasis of the matrix A , A(u , v ) being the disagreement between editors u and v , and vice versa . We build a matrix Ai for each ri , with Ai(u , v ) = wi(u , v ) + wi(v , u ) . Then , the two most negative eigenvalues of Ai and their eigenvectors xi and yi are computed , resulting in the x and y coordinates of nodes in ri , respectively . Editors in window ω that did not cause a disagreement edge ( eg , by just adding content ) are not displayed in the main graph but on a separate “ non disagreeing editors “ line , to keep track of recently active editors . An additional row lines up all nodes that represent authors of any content in ri that did not edit in ω at all .
8wwwd3org
An edge ( u , v ) ∈ Ei is drawn as a grey line with width proportional to the value Ai(u , v ) . The edge coloring is changed to red if the disagreement is mutual , ie , values wi(u , v ) and wi(v , u ) are both > 0 . The opacity of the red color starts with minimal value and increases according to the reciprocity metric .
4 . USAGE AND USE CASES
As an example , we look at the article Tropical Storm Alberto ( 2006 ) , given in [ 1 ] as an instance of a “ featured ” ( ie , high quality ) article with low bipolarity , meaning that the aggregated network of the last revision exhibits multipolar disagreement structures instead of , eg , two dominant disagreeing groups ( cf . Figure 2 in [ 1] ) . Exploring the history of interactions in whoVIS ( Figure 2 ) , we can first see in the line chart under the network graph that the bipolarity of the network can , in fact , be very high at times , even when the aggregated graph for the last revision shows low bipolarity . This can be explained by the fact that over time , we see ephemeral bipolar disagreement “ camps ” of different editor combinations emerge and disappear . For instance , the high bipolarity spikes at SrevID ≈ 280 ( SrevID = “ sequential revision id ” , assigned by whoVIS for this article ) and SrevID ≈ 360 indicate disagreements between editors CrazyC83 and Super Magician , while the spike at , eg , SrevID ≈ 520 shows a disagreement between Hurricanehink vs . Thegreatdr and Titoxd ( see Figure 2 ) . The revision wise exploration hence allows us to deconstruct and better understand the aggregate disagreement network in terms of its dynamic evolution by identifying temporal sub structures of disagreement .
Going through the network graph chronologically , we can see that after the foundation of content by CrazyC83 , a phase of indicated disagreement between several editors follows starting at about SrevID ≈ 80 . We can see mutual disagreement mainly between CrazyC83 and Super Magician , with several editors entering into a “ disagreement triangle ” with them before the dissent dies down towards SrevID ≈ 280 ( Figure 1 shows an intermediate step ) . We observe this development mirrored in the average reciprocity and total negative actions charts . Inquiring into the ( mostly highly reciprocal ) disagreement edges via edge context in this phase reveals that the mutual editing of the actors , for the most part , concerns updates relating to recent developments of the titular “ Storm Alberto ” rather than a major clash of subjective viewpoints . This can be gleaned from the actions performed ( largely date related updates ) , the comments ( “ 7 pm update ” ) and the high edit rapidness ( via the corresponding line chart in “ additional metrics ” ) . Yet , mixed into this “ live reporting ” spurt are genuine opinion clashes about how to write the article , eg , the disagreement edge emerging between Derek.cashman and Super Magician at SrevID ≈ 184 , arguing whether to include links in section headers and citing the pertaining Wikipedia policies , as illustrated in Figure 1 . Later , we see disputes about , eg , the veracity of a report between Weatherfreak111 vs . Ajm81 and Hurricanehink ( SrevID ≈ 470 ) ; and vandalism fighting , as surfacing at SrevID ≈ 648 between the IP 19051xx and several registered users amidst other , content related disagreements , which develop ( quite literally and visually ) orthogonal to the vandalism fight ( cf . Crisco1492 vs . Juliancolton around the same time ) .
These examples showcase , with the help of the edge context and revision wise exploration , that “ disagreement ” , modeled as textdeletes and reintroductions can have highly different meanings in specific situations and in fact moves on a spectrum between mere “ corrections ” , “ profound disagreement ” and “ outright conflict ” , a distinction that can be easily overlooked when boiling down real human editor interactions into statistical graph representations . These different disagreement types can overlap , co exist in parallel or appear at different points in time . Edge context hence enables a crucial qualitative assessment of editor interactions by augmenting the information captured in the network graph .
Another interesting observation in the article is the development towards “ featured article ” status , which it reaches at SrevID = 584 ( captured in “ additional metrics ” ) . The Authorship Gini curve shows a significant increase in authorship concentration before that event , at SrevID ≈ 510 ( Figure 2 ) , which , upon inspection of the “ word ownership ” of the top authors in the respective whoVIS tab , can be attributed to a large “ writing sprint ” by user Hurricanehink . This editor contributes a vast amount of content with some deletion/rewriting of authors Titoxd , Thegreatdr and Ajm81 , but without being antagonized , and mostly adding new material of his own . After reaching featured article status , however , we see a burst of disagreement following SrevID ≈ 635 , which is caused by many new editors doing small corrections but also partly due to vandals appearing , eg , at SrevID ≈ 648 ( IP 19051xx ) . By tracking authorship concentration , the top editors’ authored content and other metrics over time , as well as monitoring important wiki templates in the article , whoVIS can inform a targeted inspection of editing interaction dynamics in the network by indicating significant phases in the article lifecycle through aggregate metrics over time . 5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In conclusion , we have indicated that a variety of disagreements patterns exists and that their evolution over time merits investigation . We further showed how the innovative data presentation of whoVIS can help discover those intricate details of collaborative writing that would else be hard or impossible to glean from existing end user tools . We are not aware of a tool solution that provides the revision wise exploration of the interaction network ( as proposed by research ) in conjunction with the qualitative exploration offered trough edge context and auxiliary metrics ( especially authorship tracking ) that together allow for novel views of collaborative writing dynamics .
Our approach could also be adapted to non Wiki environments as , eg , code repositories like GitHub , which might similarly benefit from a visual analysis of their collaboration patterns . Other future developments of our tool will likely include ( i ) automatically and visually distinguishing types of disagreement , ( ii ) inclusion of positive edges describing support of another editor ’s content , and ( iii ) a more comprehensive version of the edge context . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] U . Brandes , P . Kenis , J . Lerner , and D . van Raaij . Network analysis of collaboration structure in wikipedia . In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’09 , pages 731–740 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 2 ] F . Flöck and M . Acosta . Wikiwho : Precise and efficient attribution of authorship of revisioned content . In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’14 , pages 843–854 . ACM , 2014 .
[ 3 ] S . Maniu , B . Cautis , and T . Abdessalem . Building a signed network from interactions in wikipedia . In Databases and Social Networks , pages 19–24 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 4 ] B . Suh , E . H . Chi , A . Kittur , and B . A . Pendleton . Lifting the veil : Improving accountability and social transparency in wikipedia with wikidashboard . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , CHI ’08 , pages 1037–1040 . ACM , 2008 .
[ 5 ] B . Suh , E . H . Chi , B . A . Pendleton , and A . Kittur . Us vs . them : Understanding social dynamics in wikipedia with revert graph visualizations . In Visual Analytics Science and Technology , VAST , pages 163–170 . IEEE , 2007 .
