The Role of Data Cap in Optimal Two part
Network Pricing
Xin Wang† , Richard T . B . Ma∗ , Yinlong Xu†
† School of Computer Science and Technology , University of Science and Technology of China
∗ School of Computing , National University of Singapore yixinxa@mailustceducn , tbma@compnusedusg , ylxu@ustceducn
6 1 0 2 r p A 0 2
] I
N . s c [
5 v 4 1 5 1 0
.
3 0 5 1 : v i X r a
Abstract—Internet services are traditionally priced at flat rates ; however , many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) have recently shifted towards two part tariffs where a data cap is imposed to restrain data demand from heavy users . Although the two part tariff could generally increase the revenue for ISPs and has been supported by the US FCC , the role of data cap and its optimal pricing structures are not well understood . In this article , we study the impact of data cap on the optimal two part pricing schemes for congestion prone service markets . We model users’ demand and preferences over pricing and congestion alternatives and derive the market share and congestion of service providers under a market equilibrium . Based on the equilibrium model , we characterize the two part structures of the revenue and welfare optimal pricing schemes . Our results reveal that 1 ) the data cap provides a mechanism for ISPs to transition from the flat rate to pay as you go type of schemes , 2 ) both of revenue and welfare objectives move the pricing towards usage based schemes with diminishing data caps , and 3 ) the welfare optimal tariff comprises lower fees than the revenue optimal counterpart , suggesting that regulators might want to promote usage based pricing but regulate the lump sum and per unit fees .
I . INTRODUCTION
Traditionally , Internet service providers ( ISPs ) use flatrate pricing [ 4 ] for network services , where users pay fixed monthly fees for unlimited data usage . Flat rate pricing was widely adopted because it was easy for ISPs to implement and was preferred by users for its simplicity . However , with the rapid development and growing popularity of data intensity services , eg , online video streaming and cloud based applications , the Internet traffic keeps growing more than 50 % per annum [ 5 ] , which exposes some disadvantages of the flat rate scheme . Because flat rate does not count the users’ data usage , “ bandwidth hogs ” [ 6 ] consume an unfair share of capacity and are subsidized by normal users , and ISPs cannot generate enough revenues to recoup their costs , especially for the mobile providers . As a consequence , most mobile LTE providers [ 7 ] and even broadband ISPs , eg , Verizon [ 8 ] and AT&T [ 9 ] , start to introduce a data cap and adopt a twopart tariff structure , a combination of flat rate and usage based pricing . Under such a two part scheme , additional charges are
The updated version serves an erratum to prior papers [ 1–3 ] , which studied the role of data cap in optimal two part tariffs . In Section VI and V of [ 1 ] and [ 3 ] , and Section III and VI of [ 2 ] , the theoretical analysis and simulation results of the optimal pricing do not hold in general . In this present article , we combine the models from the original papers with new corrected results in Section IV and V . imposed if a user ’s data demand exceeds the data cap and the exceeded amount is charged based on a per unit fee .
Although prior work [ 6 , 10–12 ] has shown that data capped schemes could help ISPs generate higher revenues than that under the flat rate pricing and the FCC chairman has recently backed usage based pricing for broadband to penalize heavy Internet users [ 13 ] , little is known about 1 ) the data cap ’s role and impact on the revenue optimal two part pricing , and 2 ) potential regulations on two part pricing for protecting social welfare from monopoly providers .
In this paper , we focus on a generic congestion prone service market , eg , mobile , broadband or cloud services , and study the data cap under two part pricing schemes . Unlike physical commodities , the quality of network service is intricately influenced by a negative network effect ( or network externality ) : the more users access the service simultaneously , the worse performance it provides . We model this service congestion as a function of providers’ capacity and their data load . We characterize users by their demand and values on data usage , and analyze the market shares and congestion levels of the providers under varying pricing and market structures . Based on our model , we analyze the effect of data cap on the provider ’s optimal revenue and pricing structure . We also analyze and compare the revenue optimal and welfare optimal two part schemes , and derive regulatory implications . Our main contributions and findings include the following .
• We model users’ optimal data usages and preferences over various pricing schemes and exogenous levels of congestion ( Section III ) . We characterize the existence and uniqueness ( Theorem 1 ) of a market equilibrium and show its monotonic dynamics ( Theorem 2 ) under varying pricing and market structures .
• We analyze the impact of data cap on a provider ’s optimal revenue and pricing decision under two part tariff ( Section IV ) . We find that diminishing the data cap transforms revenue optimal pricing from flat rate to pay as you go type of schemes , during which the provider ’s revenue changes from a minimum to a maximum ( Theorem 3 ) . • We characterize the dynamics of welfare optimal two part tariff ( Section V ) . We find that the optimal social welfare varies from a minimum to a maximum with decreasing data cap ( Theorem 4 ) and the welfare optimal pricing imposes lower fees than the revenue optimal counterpart . The results suggest that regulators might want to encour age the use of two part pricing with limited data cap , while regulate the lump sum and per unit fees .
We believe that our work provides new insights into the role of data cap in the optimal structure of two part tariff . Our results could help service providers design revenue optimal pricing schemes and guide regulatory authorities to legislate desirable regulations .
II . RELATED WORK
Early studies of two part tariff came from economics . Oi [ 14 ] first studied the price discrimination via quantity discounts in the monopoly Disneyland market . Calem et al . [ 15 ] examined and compared the revenue optimal prices by a multiproduct monopoly and a differentiated oligopoly . Littlechild [ 16 ] studied the explicit characterizations of welfare optimal pricing and the effect of consumption externalities . Scotchmer [ 17 ] explored the nature of Nash equilibrium among profitmaximizing shared facilities . However , all of these work were confined to a special case where the data/usage cap is set to be zero . Our work studies the impact and dynamic of data cap on the two part pricing , which generalizes the special case .
As the demarcation between the lump sum and usagebased fees , data cap plays a crucial role in the two part tariff structures . Prior work [ 6 , 10–12 , 18 ] demonstrated that datacapped schemes can increase providers’ revenue compared with the traditional flat rate pricing [ 4 ] . Odlyzko et al . [ 19 ] showed that ISPs could also reduce network congestion by imposing data caps . Our analysis and results also confirm these observations . Furthermore , we focus on understanding the impact of data cap on the structures of revenue optimal and welfare optimal tariffs . The impact and optimal design of data cap have been empirically studied . In a qualitative study of households users under bandwidth caps , Chetty et al . [ 20 ] studied how the uncertainties of user types and demand would impact the setting of data cap and operator ’s revenue , and proposed new tools to help users manage their caps . Poularakis et al . [ 21 ] proposed a framework to calculate the optimal data caps and empirically evaluated the gains of ISPs when they adopt data caps based on traffic datasets . Unlike these efforts , our work adopts an analytical approach to characterize the desirable data cap and the optimal structure of the two part pricing schemes .
More generally , there have been several works that study the usage based Internet pricing . Hande et al . [ 22 ] characterized the economic loss due to ISPs’ inability or unwillingness to price broadband access based on the time of use . Li et al . [ 23 ] studied the optimal price differentiation under complete and incomplete information . Basar et al . [ 24 ] devised a revenuemaximizing pricing under varying user scale and network capacity . Shen et al . [ 25 ] investigated optimal nonlinear pricing policy design for a monopolistic service provider and showed that the introduction of nonlinear pricing provides a large profit improvement over linear pricing . In this paper , we focus on the two part pricing . Besides optimizing the revenue from the provider ’s perspective , we also look into the welfare optimal solution , through which we derive regulatory implications .
From a modeling perspective , Chander [ 26 ] , Reitman [ 27 ] , Ma [ 28 ] and our work all consider the service market with congestion externalities . Chander [ 26 ] studied the quality differentiation strategy of a monopoly provider and Reitman [ 27 ] studied a multi provider price competition . Both of them modeled the market as a continuum of non atomic users , each of which is characterized by a quality sensitivity parameter . However , this one dimensional model only applies for flatrate pricing and the distribution of users was often assumed to be uniform for analytical tractability . To faithfully characterize the utility of users under two part tiered pricing , we establish a novel two dimensional model that describes users by their data demand and valuation on data usage . Furthermore , we analyze a class of distributions , including the uniform distribution , to understand the impact of user demand and value on the optimal pricing structures of the providers . Ma [ 28 ] also considered a two dimensional user model ; however , the author only focused on the pay as you go pricing , a special case of the two part tariff structure studied in this paper .
III . MODEL
A . Model of Users and Their Data Demand
We model each user by two orthogonal characteristics : her average value of per unit data usage v and desirable data demand u . The user ’s data usage is measured by what she is billed , eg , the number of bits transmitted or the amount of time being online .
We denote q as the congestion level of an ISP . Given the network congestion q , we denote ρ(u , q ) as the user ’s achievable demand . Assumption 1 : ρ(u , q ) : R+ × R+ → R+ is a continuous function , increasing in u and decreasing in q . It has an upperbound ρ(u , 0 ) = u and satisfies q→+∞ ρ(u , q ) = 0 . lim
Assumption 1 states that a user ’s achievable data demand equals its desirable demand u under no congestion and decreases monotonically when the network congestion q becomes more severe .
Beside network congestion , the user ’s actual data usage also depends on her ISP ’s pricing . We consider an ISP that adopts a two part tiered pricing structure θ = ( g , f , p ) , where g , f and p denote a data cap , a lump sum service fee and a per unit usage fee , respectively . Under this scheme , we denote t(y , θ ) as the user ’s charge when y units of data are consumed , defined as t(y , θ ) f + p(y − g)+ .
Intuitively , if a user ’s usage is below the data cap g , the ISP only collects the lump sum fee f ; otherwise , extra charges are imposed on the usage above the data cap with the per unit usage fee of p . This two part structure is also a generalization of flat rate , ie , g = +∞ , and pay as you go [ 28 ] pricing , ie , f = 0 and g = 0 . We denote π(y ) as the user ’s utility when she consumes y units of data , defined by π(y ) vy − t(y , θ ) , ie , the total traffic value minus the charge . We assume that users determine their optimal data usages that maximize their utilities . In other words , each user tries to solve the following problem :
Maximize π(y ) = vy − t(y , θ ) subject to
0 ≤ y ≤ ρ(u , q ) ,
( 1 ) where a user ’s actual data usage is constrained by the achievable demand ρ(u , q ) under the network congestion q . We define φ = ( u , v ) as the type of the user and denote y∗(φ , θ , q ) as its optimal usage under ISP ’s pricing scheme θ and congestion q . By solving the optimization problem in ( 1 ) , we derive the unique optimal solution for any user type φ as y∗(φ , θ , q ) = ρ(u , q ) −.ρ(u , q ) − gfi+
1{v<p} .
( 2 )
Intuitively , if a user ’s achievable demand ρ(u , q ) is beyond the data cap g and her value v is lower than the per unit usage fee p , she will avoid consuming extra usage above g which would result in reducing her utility , and thus the optimal data demand equals the data cap , ie , y∗ = g ; otherwise , the optimal data demand equals her achievable demand , ie , y∗ = ρ(u , q ) . Equation ( 2 ) also shows that the optimal demand will increase if the value v or desirable demand u increases , or the provider ’s per unit fee p or data cap g or congestion q alleviates .
B . Users’ Preferences over Providers
We consider a market that comprises of a set N of providers . We denote θ = ( θi : i ∈ N ) and q = ( qi : i ∈ N ) as the pricing strategy and congestion vectors of the providers . We i ( φ ) y∗(φ , θi , qi ) as the optimal demand of user define y∗ type φ when it chooses provider i . For any two providers i , j ∈ N , we denote i φ j if users of type φ prefer i over j . Definition 1 : We denote πi(y ) as the user ’s utility function when using provider i . For any i , j ∈ N , i φ j if and only if 1 ) πi(y∗ j ( φ ) ) and i is chosen over j by the user based on any arbitrary tie breaking condition . j ( φ ) ) or 2 ) πi(y∗ i ( φ ) ) = πj(y∗ i ( φ ) ) > πj(y∗
Based on Definition 1 , we assume that users of type φ would choose their favorite provider i that induces the highest utility under their optimal data usage , ie , i φ j,∀j ∈ N\{i} . However , a user ’s best provider might still induce negative utility , and therefore we allow users not to use any of the providers if they all induce negative utility as follows . Assumption 2 : There exists a provider , indexed by 0 , that sets f0 = p0 = 0 and maintains a fixed level of congestion q0 .
Assumption 2 states that there always exist a free provider that users can choose . When we set the congestion level q0 = +∞ , the free provider becomes a dummy provider which users could choose so as to guarantee zero utility . Besides , when the congestion q0 < +∞ , the free provider can be used to characterize lower end competitors in the market that have capacities to accommodate users with a certain congestion quality q0 . Because in practice , users might also find public options [ 29 ] such as free municipal WiFi and municipal broadband [ 30 ] recently supported by the US FCC .
To distinguish between the free provider and normal providers , we assume that the set N are all normal providers , ie , 0 /∈ N . Based on Definition 1 and Assumption 2 , we denote Φi as provider i ’s market share , ie , the set of user types that choose to use i , defined by
Φi(θ , q , q0 ) =(φ : i φ j,∀j ∈ N ∪ {0}\{i} ) .
( 3 )
Next , we show how providers’ market shares Φi(θ , q , q0 ) vary when the set of competing providers N or the pricing decisions θ change . Proposition 1 : For a set N of providers , if two pricing decisions ˆθ and θ satisfy ˆgi ≥ gi , ˆfi ≤ fi , ˆpi ≤ pi for some i ∈ N and ˆθj = θj for all j = i , we have Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ⊆ Φi( ˆθ , q , q0 ) and Φj(θ , q , q0 ) ⊇ Φj( ˆθ , q , q0 ) , ∀ j = i . For two sets N and N of providers , if N ⊆ N and ( θ i ) = ( θi , qi ) for ∀i ∈ N , we have Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ⊆ Φi(θ , q , q0 ) , ∀ i ∈ N . i , q
Proposition 1 states that under fixed levels of congestion q , the market share of a provider would increase if the provider reduces its fees f or p , or raises its data cap g , unilaterally . Meanwhile , the market share of any other provider will decrease . It implies that monopolistic providers could use fees and data cap to trade off its market share and revenue ; while , oligopolistic providers could compete for market shares by decreasing their fees and increasing data caps . Proposition 1 also implies that bringing new providers into the market will intensify market competition and existing providers’ market shares will decrease , because some of their users might switch to the new providers .
Proposition 1 holds under the condition of fixed network congestion . However , a provider ’s congestion level depends on its market share and the data usage of its users . We discuss the dynamics of network congestion and equilibrium in the next subsection . C . Network Congestion and Equilibrium
We denote U and V as the maximum desirable data demand and maximum per unit data value of all users . Thus , the domain of users is defined as Φ = [ 0 , U ] × [ 0 , V ] . We model the set of all users by the measure space ( Φ , µ ) , where µ denotes a product measure µ(E1× E2 ) = µu(E1)× µv(E2 ) , ∀ E1 ⊆ [ 0 , U ] , E2 ⊆ [ 0 , V ] , where µu and µv are two continuous measures , defined by
µu ( (u1 , u2 ] ) = Fu(u2 ) − Fu(u1),∀u1 ≤ u2 , and µv ( (v1 , v2 ] ) = Fv(v2 ) − Fv(v1),∀v1 ≤ v2 , for some non decreasing distribution functions Fu and Fv .
Based on the distribution of users , we denote di as provider i ’s data load , ie , the aggregate data demand of users of i , defined by di = D(Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ; θi , qi ) y∗ i ( φ , θi , qi)dµ ( 4 )
Φi(θ,q,q0 )
On the one hand , given congestion levels q , provider i has an induced data load di = D(Φi ; θi , qi ) . On the other hand , the provider ’s congestion level qi is influenced by its data load di . i
We denote Q−1
We denote ci as provider i ’s capacity and model its congestion as a function qi = Qi(di , ci ) of data load di and capacity ci . + → R+ is continuous , Assumption 3 : Qi(di , ci ) : R2 increasing in di , decreasing in ci and satisfies Qi(0 , ci ) = 0 . Different forms of the congestion function Qi can be used to model technologies used by the provider . Assumption 3 implies that a provider i ’s congestion increases ( decreases ) when its data load di ( capacity ci ) increases , and no congestion exists when no user consumes data from the provider . the different
( qi , ci ) as the inverse function of Qi(di , ci ) to di , which defines the implied load under with respect the capacity ci and an observed congestion level of qi . By Assumption 3 , we know that Q−1 ( qi , ci ) is continuous , increasing in both qi and ci , and satisfies Q−1 ( 0 , ci ) = 0 . We denote c = ( ci : i ∈ N ) as the vector of the capacities of all the providers . Under an exogenous level q0 of congestion and when the providers make exogenous pricing decisions θ and capacity planning decisions c , the resulting congestion q of the providers can be determined endogenously when users choose their best providers . We define such a market equilibrium of the system as follows . Definition 2 : Given the congestion level q0 , for a set N of providers with any fixed pricing strategies θ and capacities c , q is an equilibrium if and only if i i
∀i ∈ N .
,
, ci qi = Qi
D,Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ; θi , qi
D,Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ; θi , qi = Q−1 equivalently rephrase i the above definition , we
To better understand the can above equality condition as ( qi , ci ) , where the left hand side is the induced data load of provider i given its market share Φi(θ , q , q0 ) , pricing strategy θi and congestion qi and the right hand side is its implied data load under capacity ci . In equilibrium , both equal the actual aggregate user demand di . Because the equilibrium is depend on the pricing strategies θ , capacities c and congestion q0 , we also denote it as q(θ , c , q0 ) . Theorem 1 : Under Assumption 1 3 , for any fixed pricing strategies θ , capacities c and congestion q0 , there always exists a market equilibrium q , satisfying qi < q0,∀i ∈ N . In particular , when the market has only one normal provider , ie , |N| = 1 , the equilibrium is unique .
Theorem 1 states that under minor assumptions of the demand ( Assumption 1 ) and congestion ( Assumption 3 ) , the existence of a market equilibrium can be guaranteed . Besides , the normal providers always have lower congestion levels than q0 of the free provider under equilibrium ; otherwise , no user would use the normal providers . When the market consists only one normal provider , the equilibrium is unique . For this case , we denote I as the provider and define I = {I} . The next theorem shows how its congestion level varies when its pricing strategy θI and capacity cI change , or other providers enter the market to compete . Theorem 2 : In a market I , provider I ’s unique level of congestion qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) in equilibrium is non increasing in its fees fI , pI and capacity cI , but is non decreasing in its
( a ) equilibrium market share
( b ) cI decreases to 0.3
( c ) q0 increases to 3.0
( d ) fI reduces to 0.05
( e ) pI reduces to 0.1
( f ) gI relaxes to 0.6
Fig 1 . Shift of market share for the provider data cap gI and congestion q0 of the free provider . When new providers enter and form a new market N ⊃ I and I keeps its pricing θI and capacity cI , I ’s congestion qI ( θ , c , q0 ) under any new equilibrium satisfies qI ( θ , c , q0 ) ≤ qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) .
Theorem 2 states that when the normal provider increases fees or decreases data cap , its induced congestion level will be alleviated , because its market share as well as data load will decrease . When the provider increases capacity , the congestion level will also decrease , although the resulting market share and data load will increase . Furthermore , if the congestion q0 deteriorates , the provider ’s congestion will increase , as some users of the free provider will shift to it . It also shows that with more competing providers , the existing monopoly ’s congestion will decrease , as users have more choices and may switch to other providers . This implies that competition could alleviate the congestion at the providers , because effectively more providers bring higher capacity to the entire market .
Under any market equilibrium q(θ , c , q0 ) , we denote Ri and Si as the revenue and social welfare generated by provider i , defined as
Φi t ( y∗ i ( φ ) , θi ) dµ and Si
Ri where y∗ evaluated at the equilibrium q(θ , c , q0 ) .
( 5 ) i ( φ ) = y∗(φ , θi , qi ) and Φi = Φi(θ , q , q0 ) are vy∗ i ( φ)dµ ,
Φi
D . Model Parameters and Properties
Although our model is built upon generic assumptions ( Assumption 1 and 3 ) , it does not yet capture the characteristics of network services . To this end , we carefully choose the model parameters , ie , the congestion function Qi(di , ci ) , the achievable demand function ρ(u , q ) and the measure space ( Φ , µ ) of user domain . Next , we choose a quintessential form ρ(u , q ) = ue−q for the achievable demand function , which is used by prior work [ 27 , 31 ] . Under this form , the user ’s achievable demand decays exponentially at a rate of q , ie , the level of congestion . We adopt the congestion function Qi(di , ci ) = di/ci , which models the capacity sharing [ 32 ] nature of network services . This form has been used in much prior work such as [ 32–34 ] . Corollary 1 : Suppose ρ(u , q ) = ue−q and Qi(di , ci ) = di/ci for all i ∈ N and let q be an equilibrium under parameters θ , c , q0 , Φ and µ . For another market with ˆf = f /(U V ) , ˆg = g/U , ˆp = p/V , ˆc = kc/U , ˆq0 = q0 , ˆΦ = [ 0 , 1 ] × [ 0 , 1 ] and ˆµ([0 , ˆu ] × [ 0 , ˆv ] ) = kµ([0 , U ˆu ] × [ 0 , V ˆv ] ) for all ( ˆu , ˆv ) ∈ ˆΦ and any k > 0 , we must have ˆq = q as an equilibrium under which ˆdi = kdi/U for all i ∈ N .
Corollary 1 states that under the exponential form of achievable demand and linear congestion function , the measure and domain of users can be normalized to be a probability measure and [ 0 , 1 ] × [ 0 , 1 ] , respectively . In particular , keeping the congestion level of the free provider unchanged , the equilibrium does not change when 1 ) the providers’ capacities and the user size scale linearly at the same rate k , 2 ) the lump sum fees , data caps , capacities and the users’ desirable demands are normalized by U , and 3 ) the lump sum and perunit fees and users’ values are normalized by V .
Based on this result , we can focus on probability distribution functions Fu(U ) = Fv(V ) = 1 and the maximum user demand and valuation U = V = 1 without loss of generality . Further , we will consider the forms Fu(x ) = xα and Fv(x ) = xβ for x ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] , where α and β model the distribution of users with respect to their desirable data demands and values , respectively . For instance , when β = 1 , user values are uniformly distributed ; otherwise , they are leaning toward the high ( β > 1 ) or low ( β < 1 ) values in the domain [ 0 , 1 ] . In summary , we will analyze the two part tiered pricing of the providers with the following assumption . Assumption 4 : Any provider i ’s congestion satisfies Qi(di , ci ) = di/ci , the users are distributed by Fu(x ) = xα , Fv(x ) = xβ for x ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] , and their achievable demands satisfy ρ(u , q ) = ue−q .
When the level of congestion is exogenously given , Proposition 1 implies that the market share of a provider will decrease when it raises fees , eg , fI and pI , or reduces data cap gI . However , the higher fees or lower data cap would alleviate the provider ’s congestion in equilibrium by Theorem 2 , which results in attracting more congestion sensitive users to join . As a result , the dynamics of the provider ’s market share combines both effects and may not be monotonic as we illustrate through an example in Figure 1 under Assumption 4 . In this example , the users are uniformly distributed , ie , α = β = 1 . In each subfigure , x axis and y axis vary the desirable data demand u and value v of the user types . In other words , each point in the subfigures represents a unique user type . We use different colors of points to represent the data usages y∗ of user types . In subfigure ( a ) , the upper right area shows the market share ΦI of the normal provider when it makes the pricing strategy θI = ( gI , fI , pI ) = ( 0.4 , 0.1 , 0.6 ) and capacity cI = 0.5 , under the congestion q0 = 15 These parameters induce congestion qI = 0.3387 and data load dI = 0.1693 in equilibrium . From subfigure ( a ) to ( b ) , the provider ’s capacity cI is reduced from 0.5 to 0.3 , which exacerbates the congestion level and results in a smaller market share for the provider . From subfigure ( a ) to ( c ) , the market is less competitive , ie , q0 increases from 1.5 to 3.0 ; from subfigure ( a ) to ( d ) , the provider uses a lower lump sum fee , ie , f decreases from 0.1 to 005 Both cases lead to a larger market share ΦI as well as higher congestion qI and data load d of the provider . From subfigure ( a ) to ( e ) and ( f ) , the provider decreases the per unit fee to pI = 0.1 and increases the data cap to gI = 0.6 , respectively . The lower per unit fee and higher data cap also induce higher data load dI and congestion qI for the provider ; however , the resulting market share ΦI attracts more lowvalue heavy users and loses some high value light users . In all cases , the congestion of the provider in equilibrium is always smaller than the congestion q0 of market competitors which is consistent with the result of Theorem 1 .
IV . REVENUE OPTIMAL PRICING
We studied the market shares , congestion levels and data loads of providers under a market equilibrium in the previous section . In this section , we further explore how providers set the two part pricing strategy so as to optimize their revenues . Because the data cap is the demarcation between the lump sum ( for demand below the data cap ) and usage based ( for demand above the data cap ) charges , we focus on the impact of data cap on the provider ’s optimal revenue and pricing decisions and identify the role of data cap in the two part pricing structure . We start with a unique normal provider in the market and use the free provider with congestion q0 to model its lowerend competitors . Under any given data cap gI , we assume the ISP chooses the lump sum and per unit fees , ie , fI and pI , to maximize its revenue RI , which is formulated by the following optimization problem .
Maximize RI ( gI , fI , pI ) , subject to I ( gI ) and p∗ fI , pI ≥ 0 .
We denote f∗ and R∗
I ( gI ) as an optimal solution of ( 6 ) , I ( gI ) as the corresponding maximum revenue . Next ,
( 6 )
( a ) optimal revenue R∗
I ( gI )
( b ) optimal lump sum fee f∗
I ( gI )
( c ) optimal per unit fee p∗
I ( gI )
Fig 2 . Maximum revenue , optimal lump sum and per unit fee under varying data cap . we study how various data caps influence its optimal revenue R∗ I , and corresponding pricing decisions , ie , f∗ I . In particular , we compare the two part pricing with the pay asyou go scheme , ie , fI = gI = 0 , and the flat rate scheme , ie , gI = +∞ . For simplification , we define the maximum revenue under the flat rate as R∗
I and p∗
∞ lim
I ( gI ) . gI→∞ R∗
I , f∗
∞ = R∗
I ( gI ) = R∗
I ( gI ) , an the optimal fees f∗
We consider the models under Assumption 4 where the maximum desirable demand is normalized to U = 1 . As a result , an effective data cap gI that might influence the users’ demand has to be less than or equal to 1 . In other words , when gI is larger than 1 , the two part pricing is equivalent to a flat rate scheme , ie , R∗ I ( 1 ) for any gI ≥ 1 . Thus , we will focus on gI ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] without loss of generality . Figure 2 shows how the data cap gI influences the ISP ’s maximum revenue R∗ I ( gI ) , p∗ I ( gI ) , under the uniform user distribution , ie , α = β = 1 , and normalized ISP capacity and free provider ’s congestion , ie , cI = q0 = 1 . Subfigures ( a ) to ( c ) plots R∗ I and p∗ I as functions of the data cap gI varying along the x axis , respectively . From Figure 2(a ) , we observe that the optimal revenue R∗ I decreases monotonically with the data cap gI . Specifically , 1 ) when the pricing converges to the flat rate structure as gI goes to one , the optimal revenue reaches a minimum ; and 2 ) when the pricing converges to the ( pure ) usage based structure as gI tends to zero , the optimal revenue gets a maximum . From Figures 2(b ) and 2(c ) , we see that the optimal fees f∗ I , p∗ I both show increasing trends as the data cap gI is relaxed . In particular , as the data cap is zero , the lump sum fee is also zero , implying that the optimal two part pricing is a pay as you go scheme . The following theorem shows that our observations on the optimal revenue and fees are not particular to the model parameters , ie , α = β = cI = q0 = 1 . Theorem 3 : For any congestion q0 , parameters α , β , cI > 0 under Assumption 4 , the provider ’s optimal revenue satisfies
∞ ≤ R∗ R∗
I ( gI ) ≤ R∗
I ( 0 ) for ∀ gI ≥ 0 .
Besides , when the data cap is zero , the revenue optimal lumpsum fee is zero , ie , f∗
I ( 0 ) = 0 .
Theorem 3 shows that the revenue generated under an optimal two part pricing with any fixed data cap gI ( ≥ 0 ) is no less than that under an optimal flat rate scheme . In other words , an ISP could always be better off by switching from an optimal flat rate scheme to an optimal two part pricing scheme . Intuitively , under any fixed lump sum fI , the twopart structure generalizes the flat rate scheme under which pI = 0 and the data cap does not play a role . Consequently , even without changing its flat rate fI , the ISP could restrict gI and increase pI to trade off between higher usage revenue from high value users’ demand and its market share , which potentially lead to higher total revenue . This result is consistent with the views in prior work [ 10–12 ] that data cap could help providers extract higher revenue from the market .
Theorem 3 also states that when the data cap is zero , the revenue from the optimal two part pricing reaches a maximum value and the corresponding lump sum fee is zero . In other words , the optimal two part scheme with zero data cap has a pay as you go structure , which is also a global optimal twopart pricing with any data cap . Since the two part structure is a generalization of the pay as you go scheme , this conclusion may not seem intuitive . We will provide a critical and detailed explanation of this result in Appendix A .
In summary , the data cap plays a transitional role between the flat rate and pay as you go pricing . Specifically , with the diminishing data cap , an ISP ’s optimal pricing transitions from a more flat rate structure to a more pay as you go structure , and the corresponding revenue changes from a minimum to a maximum . This impact on the transformation of optimal pricing structure holds regardless of the distribution of user demand , the level of competition and the capacity of ISP .
V . WELFARE OPTIMAL PRICING
In the previous section , we studied the revenue optimal pricing under which we showed the transitional role of data cap . However , the revenue optimal solution does not maximize the social welfare , ie , the total utility of the providers and their users . Although market competition in general improves the social welfare , which will be maximized under a perfect competitive market , a large deviation from the maximum welfare would more likely happen in a monopoly market . gI0051R$I004005006007,= =cI=q0=1Optimal pay as you goR$I(0)Optimal flat rateR$I(1)gI0051f$I0010203,= =cI=q0=1Optimal flat ratef$I(1)gI0051p$I03040506,= =cI=q0=1Optimal pay as you gop$I(0 ) ( a ) social welfares
( b ) optimal lump sum fees
( c ) optimal per unit fees
Fig 3 . Welfare optimal and revenue optimal pricing schemes under varying data cap . gI→∞ S◦
I ( gI ) .
I ( gI ) and p◦
In the section , we focus on a monopoly market , ie , the congestion level of the free provider q0 = +∞ . We compare the welfare optimal and revenue optimal solutions of the monopoly provider , and characterize the impact of data cap under the welfare optimal pricing structure . Under any given data cap gI , we denote f◦
I ( gI ) as the optimal lump sum fee and per unit fee that maximize the social welfare SI ( defined in Equation ( 5 ) ) and result in the optimal welfare S◦ I ( gI ) . To make a comparison , we denote S∗ I ( gI ) as the social welfare achieved under the provider ’s I ( gI ) and p∗ revenue optimal fees f∗ I ( gI ) . Next , we study how various data caps influence its optimal welfare S◦ I , and correI and p◦ sponding pricing decisions , ie , f◦ I . In particular , we compare the two part pricing with the pay as you go scheme , ie , fI = gI = 0 , and the flat rate scheme , ie , gI = +∞ . For simplification , we define the optimal social welfare under the flat rate as S◦
∞ = lim I ( gI ) , and the welfare optimal fees f◦ I , f◦
Figure 3 shows how data cap gI influences the optimal I , p◦ social welfare S◦ I , under the uniform user distribution , ie , α = β = 1 , and the ISP capacity cI = 03 Subfigures ( a ) to ( c ) plot S◦ I and p◦ I as functions of the data cap gI varying along the x axis , respectively . As a comparison , we also plot the social welfare I and the corresponding revenue optimal fees f∗ S∗ I in the three subfigures , respectively . We observe that the optimal welfare S◦ I increases monotonically with the decrease of the data cap , which has the same changing trend as the optimal revenue R∗ I shown in Figure 2 . In other word , when the pricing move from a more flat rate structure to a more usagebased structure with the diminishing data cap , the optimal welfare changes from a minimum to a maximum . Further , as the data cap gI is zero , the lump sum fee f◦ I is also zero , implying the welfare optimal pricing becomes a pay as you go scheme . The following theorem shows that these observations on the optimal welfare and fees are not particular to the model parameters , ie , α = β = 1 , cI = 03 Theorem 4 : For any parameters α , β , cI > 0 under Assumption 4 , the optimal social welfare satisfies
I , p∗
∞ ≤ S◦ S◦
I ( gI ) ≤ S◦
I ( 0 ) for ∀ gI ≥ 0 .
I ( 0 ) = 0 .
Besides , when the data cap is zero , the welfare optimal lumpsum fee is zero , ie , f◦ Theorem 4 states that the social welfare generated from any optimal two part pricing under a fixed data cap gI ≥ 0 is no less than that under an optimal flat rate scheme and no more than that under an optimal pay as you go scheme . The explanation is similar to that of the result for the optimal revenue in Theorem 3 , ie , the pay as you go structure is a pure usage based pricing mode which is more fine grained than the flat rate structure . It can utilize the provider ’s capacity more effectively and generate higher welfare from the market including users of various demands . Thus , with the diminishing data cap , the welfare optimal pricing transforms from a more flat rate structure to a more pay as you go structure , and the corresponding welfare varies from a minimum to a maximum . The results of Theorem 3 and 4 imply that both of the revenue and welfare objectives motivate the data cap decrease and move the two part pricing towards usagebased schemes . This implication provides justifications for regulators , eg , the US FCC , to encourage the shift to a more usage based pricing with limited data cap for the Internet service providers . From Figure 3 , we also observe that the curves of the I and p◦ welfare optimal fees f◦ I are always lower than those I and p∗ of the revenue optimal fees f∗ I , respectively . Because exorbitant fees reduce users’ utilities and data demand , resulting lower social welfare . This implies that regulators might need to regulate the lump sum and per unit fees to guarantee higher social welfare .
In summary , our results suggest that from a welfare perspective , the regulators should encourage providers to shift towards two part pricing with limited data caps ; however , the lump sum and per unit fees might need to be regulated when market competition does not exist .
VI . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we study the role of data cap in the optimal structure of two part tariffs . We present a novel model of users’ demand and preferences over pricing and congestion alternatives and derive the market share and congestion of the gI005101011012,= =1;cI=0:3S$IS/IgI005100102,= =1;cI=0:3f$If/IgI005101030507,= =1;cI=0:3p$Ip/I service providers under a market equilibrium . Based on the equilibrium model , we characterize the two part structure of the revenue optimal and welfare optimal pricing schemes . We identify that the data cap provides a mechanism for Internet service providers to transition from the flat rate to pay as yougo type of usage based schemes . Our results reveal that both of the revenue and welfare objectives move the two part pricing towards usage based schemes with diminishing data caps .
APPENDIX A
EXPLANATION OF THEOREM 3
In this section , we provide a detailed explanation of why the pay as you go pricing is a global revenue optimal twopart pricing structure . As shown in Equation ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , the selection and usage of users on the ISP depend strongly on their desirable demand . We first consider the pricing strategies on the set of users of the same demand .
Under any two part pricing θI = ( gI , fI , pI ) and congestion level qI , we denote ΦI ( θI , qI , u ) as the market share of the ISP on the set of users who have desirable demand u , and we denote RI ( θI , qI , u ) and dI ( θI , qI , u ) as the revenue and data load generated by these users , respectively , defined as
RI ( θI , qI , u ) t ( y∗
I ( φ ) , θI ) dµ and
ΦI ( θI ,qI ,u ) y∗ dI ( θI , qI , u ) I ( φ)dµ I ( φ ) = y∗(φ , θI , qI ) and t ( y∗
ΦI ( θI ,qI ,u ) where y∗ I ( φ ) , θI ) are user ’s actual data usage and charge , respectively . To distinguish the payas you go pricing from the two part pricing , we denote it as ˜θI ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ) . Proposition 2 : Under Assumption 4 and any fixed congestion levels qI , q0 and user demand u , for any two part pricing θI , there always exists a pay as you go pricing ˜θI satisfying that RI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) = RI ( θI , qI , u ) and dI ( ˜θI , qI , u)≤ dI ( θI , qI , u ) . Proposition 2 states that under a fixed congestion level , for any two part pricing scheme , an ISP could always find a payas you go scheme which generates the same revenue but lower data load from the set of users of the same desirable demand . It implies that the pay as you go pricing is the most efficient two part pricing structure for the set of users of the same demand . To further analyze the pricing schemes in the market including users of various demands , we define a demand based two part pricing , denoted as θI ( u ) ( gI ( u ) , fI ( u ) , pI ( u ) ) ( u ∈ [ 0 , U ] ) , where gI ( u ) , fI ( u ) and pI ( u ) are continuous functions of the desirable demand u . Under this pricing strategy , a user with desirable demand u0(∈ [ 0 , U ] ) is charged based on the data cap gI ( u0 ) , the lump sum fee fI ( u0 ) and the per unit fee pI ( u0 ) . This demand based pricing structure is a generalization of the two part pricing θI = ( gI , fI , pI ) , ie , gI ( u ) = gI , fI ( u ) = fI , pI ( u ) = pI for any u ∈ [ 0 , U ] . To distinguish the two types of pricing modes , we call θI as a fixed two part pricing . Similarly , we refer to ˜θI ( u ) ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ( u ) ) and ˜θI = ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ) as demand based and fixed pay as you go pricing , respectively , where the former is a generalization of the latter .
Based on Definition 2 , we extend the definition of congestion equilibrium from the fixed two part pricing to the demandbased two part pricing , as follows . Definition 3 : Given the congestion level q0 , for the ISP I with any fixed demand based two part pricing θI ( u ) and capacity cI , qI is an equilibrium if and only if
D,ΦI ( θI ( u ) , qI , q0 ) ; θI ( u ) , qI
, cI qI = QI where ΦI is the set of users who choose the ISP and the function D is the aggregate data usage ( load ) of the users . Lemma 1 : Under Assumption 1 3 , for any given demandbased pricing strategy θI ( u ) , capacity cI and congestion q0 , there always exists a unique equilibrium qI , satisfying qI < q0 . Lemma 1 guarantees the existence and uniqueness of the congestion equilibrium under any demand based pricing strategy . We denote the equilibrium under the pricing strategy θI ( u ) as qI ( θI ( u) ) . Further , we denote the provider ’s revenue and data load from all users of various demands in equilibrium as RI respectively , defined by
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) and dI
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) = ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) =
RI dI
U U
0
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u and dI dI
0
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) , ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du and ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u
RI where RI are the revenue and data load generated from the users of desirable demand u . Proposition 3 : Under Assumption 4 , for any demandbased two part pricing θI ( u ) , always a there demand based pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) satisfying that RI
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( ˜θI ( u)) ≥ RI
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) . exists
Proposition 3 tells that under equilibrium , for any demandbased two part pricing scheme , there must exist a demand based pay as you go pricing which could generate a higher or the same revenue from all users of various demands . The reason is that from Proposition 2 , for the given demand based two part pricing θI ( u ) , we could always find a demand based pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) which generates the same revenue but no larger data load from users of various demands , under the same congestion level qI ( θI ( u) ) . Because the congestion level decreases with the data load based on Assumption 3 , the congestion equilibrium qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) must be no larger than the congestion qI ( θI ( u) ) . Further , because the provider ’s revenue is non increasing in its congestion level , the ISP ’s revenue under the pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) is no less than that under the two part pricing θI ( u ) in equilibrium .
Proposition 3 implies that the demand based pay as you go pricing is an optimal demand based two part pricing structure . However , it is not enough to declare that the fixed pay as yougo and two part pricing also satisfy this relations . To achieve this , we provide the following proposition .
Proposition 4 : Under Assumption 4 , if ˜θI ,0 , 0 , ˜pI a revenue optimal fixed pay as you go pricing , then ˜θI ( u )
is
,0 , 0 , ˜pI ( u) where ˜pI ( u ) = ˜pI for ∀u ∈ [ 0 , U ] must be a revenue optimal demand based pay as you go pricing .
Proposition 4 shows that an optimal fixed pay as you go pricing scheme is also an optimal demand based pay as yougo pricing scheme . Intuitively , the pay as you go structure is a pure usage based pricing mode , ie , the charge for a user is proportional to her usage . Thus , the revenue optimal price only depends on the distribution of user value . Because the user ’s value and demand are independent from Assumption 4 , under the demand based pay as you go pricing structure , the revenue optimal prices for the user sets of different desirable demands are all the same , which is also a revenue optimal price under the fixed pay as you go pricing structure .
So far , we can provide a full explanation of why the fixed pay as you go pricing is a revenue optimal fixed two part pricing structure . Based on Proposition 4 , an optimal fixed payas you go scheme is also an optimal demand based pay asyou go scheme , which generates no lower revenue compared with any demand based two part scheme from Proposition 3 . Because the fixed two part pricing is a specialization of the demand based pricing , the optimal fixed pay as you go scheme obtains no lower revenue than any fixed two part scheme , ie , the pay as you go pricing is a revenue optimal two part pricing structure .
APPENDIX B
PROOFS OF ANALYTICAL RESULTS
Proof of Proposition 1 : For a set N of providers and any user type φ ∈ Φi(θ , q , q0 ) , we have y∗(φ , ˆθi , qi ) ≥ y∗(φ , θi , qi ) . Because the optimal data usage y∗ is nonincreasing in p and non decreasing in g from Equation ( 2 ) . Further , the utility function π(y ) is non decreasing in the data usage y , thus it satisfies π,y∗(φ , ˆθi , qi) ≥ π,y∗(φ , θi , qi) ≥ π,y∗(φ , θj , qj) = π,y∗(φ , ˆθj , qj) for ∀j = i . Then we i) ≥ j) = π,y∗(φ , θj , qj) ,∀j ∈ N\{i} . Then it satisfies that π,y∗(φ , θi , qi) = π,y∗(φ , θ π,y∗(φ , θ have φ ∈ Φi( ˆθ , q , q0 ) from Definition 1 and therefore Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ⊆ Φi( ˆθ , q , q0 ) . Similarly , we can show that Φj(θ , q , q0 ) ⊇ Φj( ˆθ , q , q0),∀ j = i . For two sets N and N of providers and any provider i ∈ N , for any user type φ ∈ Φi(θ , q , q0 ) , based on Definition 1 , we have φ ∈ Φi(θ , q , q0 ) and therefore Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ⊆ Φi(θ , q , q0),∀i ∈ N . ' Proof of Theorem 1 : We first prove the existence of equilibrium . By Definition 2 , q is an equilibrium if and only if for all i ∈ N ,
,D(θ , q , q0 ) , ci . and write the above in a matrix form as q = Q,D(q) = is continuous in q . To this end , we
Since θ , c and q0 are constants , we omit them in the notation Q◦ D(q ) . Thus , we can view the composite function Q◦ D as a mapping from the convex set R|N| + to itself . By Assumption 3 , we know that each Qi(di , ci ) is continuous in di and thus each Qi know that Q ◦ D(q ) is continuous in q . By Brouwer fixed
D,Φi(θ , q , q0 ) ; θi , qi
,D(θ , q , q0 ) , ci
, ci qi = Qi j , q i , q
= Qi
I , q0 qI = QI
I , q0 point theorem , there always exists a fixed point that satisfies Q ◦ D(q ) = q and is also an equilibrium .
We then prove qi < q0 ( ∀i ∈ N ) under equilibrium by contradiction . Suppose there exists a fixed pricing decision θ , capacity c and congestion q0 that make qi ≥ q0 > 0 i ( φ ) ≤ vρ(u , qi ) ≤ vρ(u , q0 ) = vy∗ under equilibrium . For any user type φ , we have π,y∗ i ( φ) = i ( φ ) − t,y∗ π,y∗ 0(φ) , ie , the free provider induces higher maximum
≤ vy∗ i ( φ ) , θi
I , q0
I
, cI utility than the provider i . Thus no user would choose provider i and its congestion qi = Qi(0 , ci ) = 0 from Assumption 3 , which is contradictory with the supposition that qi ≥ q0 > 0 . Finally , we prove the uniqueness of the equilibrium when the market has only one normal provider I by contradiction . Suppose there exist two equilibriums qI and q I under , we have y∗(φ , θI , qI ) ≥ ,θI , q fixed pricing strategy θI , capacity cI and congestion q0 . Without loss of generality , we assume that q I > qI . For any user type φ ∈ ΦI y∗(φ , θI , q I ) . Because the optimal data usage y∗ is nonI ) ≥ π,y∗(φ , θ0 , q0)fies π,y∗(φ , θI , qI ) ≥ π,y∗(φ , θI , q increasing in the congestion qI . Further , the utility function from Definition 1 . Thus ,θI , qI , q0 π(y ) is non decreasing in the data usage y , thus it satiswe deduce D,θI , qI , q0 = implying that φ ∈ ΦI I , q0 ) ⊆ ΦI ( θI , qI , q0 ) . By Equation ( 4 ) , we have ΦI ( θI , q . As QI ( dI , cI ) is I )dµ = D,θI , q
ΦI ( θI ,qI ) y∗(φ , θI , qI )dµ ≥ I ) y∗(φ , θI , q
≥ QI
D,θI , qI , q0 , cI D,θI , q
ΦI ( θI ,q non decreasing in dI from Assumption 3 , we have
I = ( gI , f I > fI and qI ( θ I , qI ( θ I , qI ( θ
= q based on Definition 2 , which is contradictory with the supposition that q I > qI . Therefore , the equilibrium is unique in the ' market with only one normal provider . Proof of Theorem 2 : We first prove the congestion qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) is non increasing in the lump sum fee fI by contradiction . Suppose qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) is not non increasing in fI , there must exist pricing strategies θ I , pI ) and θI = ( gI , fI , pI ) satisfying f I , cI , q0 ) > qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) . For any user type φ ∈ ΦI I , cI , q0 ) , q0 because the optimal data usage y∗ is non increasing in
, ,θ I , cI , q0) ≤ the congestion q , we have y∗,φ , θ y∗,φ , θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0) . Furthermore , because the utility func y∗,φ , θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0) ≥ π I , cI , q0)y∗,φ , θ from Definition ,θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) , q0 ⊆ ΦI ,θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) , q0 . it satisfies D,θ ≤ D,θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) , q0 . Because QI ( dI , cI )
, cI D,θ D,θI , qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) , q0 decreasing in dI from Assumption 3 , we have qI ( θ
π implying that φ ∈ ΦI I , qI ( θ 1 . Thus ΦI From Equation ( 4 ) , tion π is non decreasing in y and non increasing in f , we have
, cI
I ,cI , q0 ) = QI
= qI ( θI , cI , q0 )
I , cI , q0 ) , q0
I , cI , q0 ) , q0
I , cI , q0 ) , q0
I , qI ( θ
I , qI ( θ
I , qI ( θ
,θ is non
≤ QI by Definition 2 , which is contradictory with the supposition that qI ( θ I , cI , q0 ) > qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) . Therefore , qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) i
Φi
=
ˆΦi gi
/U V is non increasing in fI . Similarly , we can prove that qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) is non increasing in the per unit fee pI , the capacity cI and non decreasing in the data cap gI , the congestion level q0 and when new providers enter the market , the existing provider ’s congestion must be improved , ie , qI ( θ , c , q0 ) ≤ qI ( θI , cI , q0 ) . ' Proof of Corollary 1 : Given ˆc = kc/U , Qi(di , ci ) = di/ci and ˆdi = kdi/U for all i ∈ N , we know that ˆqi = Q( ˆdi , ˆci ) = ˆdi/ˆci = ( kdi/U )/(kci/U ) = Qi(di , ci ) = qi . Thus , we only need to show that under ˆq = q , we must have ˆdi = kdi/U for all i ∈ N . We denote ˆΦi as the market share of the provider in the normalized system . For simplification , we denote ˆθi = ( ˆgi , ˆfi , ˆpi ) , ˆθ0 = ( 0 , 0 , 0 ) . For any φ = ( u , v ) ∈ Φ , we denote ˆφ = ( ˆu , ˆv ) = ( u/U , v/V ) ∈ ˆΦ . 1{v<pi} = ue−qi − ( ue−qi − gi)+1{v<pi} = =
Then it satisfies y∗(φ , θi , qi ) = ρ(u , qi ) − .ρ(u , qi ) − fi+ U.ue−qi/U − ( ue−qi/U − gi/U )+1{v/V <pi/V }fi U.ˆue−ˆqi−(ˆue−ˆqi−ˆgi)+1{ˆv< ˆpi}fi = U y∗( ˆφ , ˆθi , ˆqi ) . Because it satisfies π,y∗( ˆφ , ˆθi , ˆqi) −π,y∗( ˆφ , ˆθj , ˆqj) = ˆv.y∗( ˆφ , ˆθi , ˆqi)− + t,y∗( ˆφ , ˆθj , ˆqj ) , ˆθj y∗( ˆφ , ˆθj , ˆqj)fi − t,y∗( ˆφ , ˆθi , ˆqi ) , ˆθi = v.y∗(φ , θi , qi)−y∗(φ , θj , qj)fi/U V −t,y∗(φ , θi , qi ) , θi /U V + t,y∗(φ , θj , qj ) , θj π,y∗(φ , θi , qi) /U V − π,y∗(φ , θj , qj) /U V , we have ˆφ ∈ ˆΦi( ˆθ , ˆq , ˆq0 ) if and y∗( ˆφ , ˆθi , ˆqi)dˆµ = ˆdi = only if φ ∈ Φi(θ , q , q0 ) . Further , we can deduce that y∗(φ , θi , qi)/U dkµ = kdi/U . ' Therefore , Corollary 1 concludes . ∞ for any gI ≥ 0 . Because the maximum desirable demand U of all users is normalized to 1 , we have R∗ I ( 1 ) is the ISP ’s optimal revenue under the flat rate pricing . We denote f∗ I ( 1 ) as any optimal lump sum fee that maximizes the revenue under the flat rate . We denote RI ( gI , f∗ I ( 1 ) , 0 ) as the ISP ’s revenue under the pricing decision θI = ( gI , f∗ I ( 1 ) , 0 ) I ( gI ) ≥ for any data cap gI ∈ [ 0 , 1 ) . Because It satisfies R∗ I ( gI ) ≥ R∗ RI ( gI , f∗ ∞ for any gI . I ( 0 ) . We only need to show that any revenue optimal ( fixed ) pay as you go pricing is also a global revenue optimal ( fixed ) two part pricing . This result can be implied Based on Proposition 3 and 4 whose proofs could be found later . From Proposition 4 , a revenue optimal fixed pay as you go pricing is also a revenueoptimal demand based pay as you go pricing , which generates higher or the same revenue compared with any demand based two part pricing from Proposition 3 . Because the fixed twopart pricing structure is a specialization of the demand based one , any revenue optimal fixed pay as you go pricing obtains higher or the same revenue than any fixed two part pricing , ie , R∗
Proof of Theorem 3 : We first prove that R∗ ∞ = R∗
I ( gI ) ≥ R∗ I ( 1 ) where R∗
I ( 1 ) , we have R∗ I ( gI ) ≤ R∗
We then prove that R∗
I ( 1 ) , 0 ) = R∗
We finally prove that f∗
I ( 0 ) = 0 . We only needs to show that any pricing scheme θI = ( 0 , fI , pI ) ( fI > 0 ) must not be a global revenue optimal two part pricing . For any two part pricing scheme θI = ( 0 , fI , pI ) ( fI > 0 ) , the pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) =,0 , 0 , fI /ρ(u , qI ( θI ) ) + pI ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( ˜θI ( u)) = RI
satisfies that ,θI , qI ( θI ) . From the proof of
RI Proposition 4 , a demand based pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) =
I ( gI ) ≤ R∗
I ( 0 ) .
,0 , 0 , ˜pI ( u) is revenue optimal only if the per unit fee ˜pI ( u ) is a constant function of u . Thus , ,0 , 0 , fI + pI ρ(u , qI ( θI ) ) must not be a revenue optimal demand based pay as you go pricing , and further , the two part pricing ( 0 , fI , pI ) ( fI > 0 ) must not be a global revenue optimal two part pricing .
' In summary , Theorem 3 concludes . Proof of Proposition 2 : For any fixed congestion levels qI , q0 , user demand u , and any two part pricing θI , we conduct the pay as you go pricing ˜θI = ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ) which satisfies that RI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) = RI ( θI , qI , u ) and dI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) ≤ dI ( θI , qI , u ) by two cases as follows . The first case : ρ(u , qI ) ≤ gI or gI pI − fI ≤ ρ(u , q0)· pI or qI ≥ q0 . Under this case , we set fI +.ρ(u , qI ) − gI fi+
ρ(u , qI )
˜pI = pI
( 7 ) fi+ are both ρ(u , qI ) and the charges are fI +.ρ(u , qI )− gI
Then based on Definition 1 and Assumption 2 , when any user of desirable demand u faces the pricing strategies θI and ˜θI , respectively , if she chooses to use the ISP , her actual usages pI and ρ(u , qI )˜pI , which are the same from Equation ( 7 ) . Thus , the ISP could obtain the same market share and further the same revenue and data load from the set of users of desirable demand u when it adopts the pricing strategies θI and ˜θI , respectively , ie , RI ( θI , qI , u ) = RI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) and dI ( θI , qI , u ) = dI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) . The second case : ρ(u , qI ) > gI and gI pI−fI > ρ(u , q0)·pI and qI < q0 . Under this case , when the ISP adopts the twopart pricing scheme θI , its revenue from the set of users of desirable demand u based on Equation ( 5 ) is
1
1
) y(x ) 1
Based on Assumption 4 , the distribution function of user valuation is Fv(v ) = vβ . We define a continuous function is decreasing in x ∈ [ ( 1 x xdFv(x ) = x(1 − xβ ) . It β , 1 ] and satisfies that
1
β for ∀x ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . β F
β + 1
β+1 )
Combining with Equation ( 8 ) , we have
0 = y(1 ) ≤ y(x ) ≤ y,( RI ( θI , qI , u)≤.ρ(u , qI )−ρ(u , q0)fiy,( RI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) = RI ( θI , qI , u ) ,
β ≤ M · ˜pI ≤ 1
β +1
We set the solution of the following Equation ( 10 ) as the payas you go pricing scheme ˜θI , u(u ) .
( 10 )
( 9 )
1
)
1
)
1
1
(
β + 1 where M = revenue RI ( ˜pI , qI , u ) from the set of users of desirable demand u
ρ(u,qI )−ρ(u,q0 ) and the
ISP ’s
ρ(u,qI )
RI ( θI , qI , u ) =
,gI − ρ(u , q0) 1 1 +,ρ(u , qI ) − gI fI gI − ρ(u , q0 ) F u(u ) . dFv
( 8 ) fI gI −ρ(u,q0 ) pI dFv pI based on Equation ( 5 ) is
RI ( ˜pI , qI , u ) =.ρ(u , qI ) − ρ(u , q0)fiy,M ˜pI
F u(u ) .
( 11 )
1 fI dFv
β+1 )
β , 1 ] and y(1 ) = 0 .
For Situation ( i ) , it satisfies
Equation ( 4 ) , we have dI ( ˜θI , qI , u)/F
Combining Equation ( 9 ) and ( 11 ) , we know Equation ( 10 ) must exist a unique solution , because y(x ) is decreasing in x ∈ [ ( 1 situations : ( i ) pI ≤ M ˜pI and ( ii ) pI > M ˜pI .
Next , we show that dI ( θI , qI , u)≥ dI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) under two gI−ρ(u,q0 ) < pI ≤ M ˜pI . From u(u ) =.ρ(u , qI ) − ρ(u , q0)fi 1 dFv +.gI − ρ(u , q0)fi 1 fi 1 x dFv = 1−xβ , then we have y,z(x) = 1
≤.ρ(u , qI ) − gI z(x ) = 1 z(x),1 − z(x) 1 .ρ(u , qI ) − ρ(u , q0)fiy,z(M ˜pI ) =.ρ(u , qI ) − gI +.gI − ρ(u , q0)fiy,z(
= dI ( θI , qI , u)/F For Situation ( ii ) , we first define a continuous function x xdFv = β . Further , y(z ) is increasing and concave in gI−ρ(u,q0 ) ≥ gI−ρ(u,q0 ) ) ≤ β β+1 . z ∈ [ 0 , β β+1 , 1 ) . If fI ( 1 β+1 ) From Equation ( 8 ) , ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) , we know that
β+1 ] and decreasing in z ∈ ( β β , we have 0 ≤ z(pI ) , z(M ˜pI ) , z( fiy,z(pI )
) . gI −ρ(u,q0 ) u(u ) . dFv
M ˜pI fI pI fI fI
1 gI − ρ(u , q0 )
Because y(z ) is increasing and concave in z ∈ [ 0 , β satisfies that u(u ) =.ρ(u , qI ) − ρ(u , q0)fiz,M ˜pI fiz(pI ) +.gI − ρ(u , q0)fiz( dI ( ˜θI , qI , u)/F
≤.ρ(u , qI ) − gI fI
β+1 ] , it gI − ρ(u , q0 )
)
1
1 fI fI fI u(u ) . gI−ρ(u,q0 ) ) . gI−ρ(u,q0 ) < β , 1 ] which
=dI ( θI , qI , u)/F implying that dI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) ≤ dI ( θI , qI , u ) . If β , there must exist a value kI ∈ [ ( 1 ( 1 β+1 ) β+1 ) 0 ≤ z(pI ) , z(M ˜pI ) , z(kI ) ≤ β β+1 and z(kI ) ≤ z( From Equation ( 8 ) , ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) , we have that satisfies that y,z(kI ) = y,z( .ρ(u , qI )−ρ(u , q0)fiy,z(M ˜pI ) ) =.gI−ρ(u , q0)fiy,z( =.gI − ρ(u , q0)fiy,z(kI ) +.ρ(u , qI ) − gI gI−ρ(u,q0 ) ) . Then we have fiy,z(pI )) +.ρ(u , qI )−gI fiy,z(pI ) . u(u ) =.ρ(u , qI )−ρ(u , q0)fiy,z(M ˜pI ) ) fiz(pI )
≤.gI−ρ(u , q0)fiz(kI ) +.ρ(u , qI )−gI ≤.gI−ρ(u , q0)fiz(
Because y(z ) is increasing and concave in z ∈ [ 0 , β satisfies that fiz(pI ) ) +.ρ(u , qI )−gI dI ( ˜θI , qI , u)/F gI−ρ(u , q0 )
β+1 ] , it fI fI
=dI ( θI , qI , u)/F gI − ρ(u , q0 ) u(u ) implying that dI ( ˜θI , qI , u ) ≤ dI ( θI , qI , u ) .
RI dI
Summarizing the two cases , Proposition 2 concludes . ' Proof of Lemma 1 : This lemma can be proofed by the same method with Theorem 1 . In other word , for any demand based pricing θI ( u ) , we can show the existence of the equilibrium based on the Brouwer fixed point theorem and the uniqueness ' of the equilibrium by contradiction . Proof of Proposition 3 : From Proposition 2 , for any fixed u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] and the given demand based two part pricing θI ( u ) , we could always find a demand based pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) which generate the same revenue but lower data load from the set of users of various demand u , under the same congestion level qI ( θI ( u) ) , ie , we have
We make the demand based pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) satisfies Equation ( 12 ) for any u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] and we have that
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u = RI ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u ≤ dI 1 ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) = 1 ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) = 1
1
RI
0
0
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u , ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u . ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) , ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u ) )
,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du = dI dI
0 dI
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u) ) , u du = RI
RI
RI
= dI
≤
( 12 )
0
( 13 ) implying that the equilibrium congestion qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) under the pricing ˜θI ( u ) is no larger than the congestion qI ( θI ( u) ) . Because if we assume that qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) is larger than qI ( θI ( u) ) , for the pricing scheme ˜θI ( u ) , any user ’s utility and usage under the congestion qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) would not be larger than that under the congestion qI ( θI ( u) ) . Thus , the ISP ’s data load under the congestion qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) must not be larger than that under the congestion qI ( θI ( u) ) , ie ,
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( ˜θI ( u)) ≤ dI ,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( ˜θI ( u)) ≤ dI
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) . ,θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) .
Combining with Equation ( 13 ) , it satisfies dI dI
Because the level of congestion is increasing in the data load from Assumption 3 , the equilibrium congestion for the pricing ˜θI ( u ) should also be no larger than that the pricing θI ( u ) , which is contradictory with the assumption . Thus , we have qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) ≤ qI ( θI ( u) ) . Further , because the provider ’s revenue is non increasing in its congestion level under any given pricing strategy , we have
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( ˜θI ( u)) ≥ RI
RI
,˜θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)),θI ( u ) , qI ( θI ( u)) .
= RI implying that the ISP could obtain no smaller revenue from the pricing ˜θI ( u ) compared to the pricing θI ( u ) under equilibrium . ' Therefore , Proposition 3 concludes . Proof of Proposition 4 : We first prove that any revenueoptimal demand based pay as you go pricing strategy ˜θI ( u ) = ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ( u ) ) satisfies that ˜pI ( u ) is a constant function of for any u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] and it maximization problem : u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . Under Assumption 4 , we denote h(u ) ,˜pI ( u) β is a solution of the following
Maximize T ( h(u) ) , h(u ) ≥ 0 subject to for ∀u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] .
1
1 d
( 14 )
Thus , it satisfies that where the function T ( h(u ) ) is denoted as the ISP ’s revenue under the pay as you go pricing ˜θI ( u ) = ,0 , 0 , ( h(u ) ) β . fifi =0 = 0 . We denote s(h(u ) ) qI ( ˜θI ( u ) ) as the congestion equilibrium under the pricing ˜θI ( u ) =,0 , 0 , ( h(u ) ) β .
T,h(u) ≥ T,h(u ) + η(u) H( ) where η(u ) is a disturbing function , from which we have dH( ) udFvdFu · e−s(h(u ) ) where K(x ) = e−x/(e−x − e−q0 ) . Further we derive that
From Assumption 4 and Definition 3 , we have cI · s(h(u ) ) =
1 1 K(s(h(u))),h(u) 1 1 .1−K β(s(h(u)))h(u)fiudFu · e−s(h(u ) ) 1 h(u)udFu = . 1 udFu−cI s(h(u))es(h(u))fi from which we have that s(h(u ) ) = G−1 , 1 For any function η(u ) with condition 1 where G−1 is the inverse function of G .
G,s(h(u ) )
0 h(u)udFu
K β(s(h(u) ) )
0 uη(u)dFu = 0 , we
=
1
0
0
0
0
β have
0
0 d d
( 15 ) dH( )
1 uη(u)dFu = 0
=(G−1)( ds(h(u ) + η(u ) ) fifi =0 h(u)udFu ) ·
Based on the revenue function , Equation ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) , we have
1 dT,h(u ) + η(u)1 β −1.1 − ( β + 1)h(u)K β(s(h(u)))fi . 0 uη(u)w(u)dFu = 0 if 1 fifi =0 = w(u ) =,h(u) 1 Thus , we have 1 any function ξ(u ) satisfying 1 1
0 uη(u)dFu = 0 . We make a substitution ξ(u ) = αuαη(u ) . Then for 0 ξ(u)du = 0 , we have 0 ξ(u)w(u)du = 0 . Based on this condition , we next prove d uη(u)w(u)dFu · e−s(h(u ) ) = 0 where
( 16 )
1 β
=
0 fififi =0
0 fififi u2−δ u1−δ
ξ(u ) = w(u)du
−1 0
ξ(u)w(u)du u2+δ if if otherwise .
|u − u1| < δ , |u − u2| < δ ,
· 2δ ≥ 2 δ
0 ξ(u ) = 0 . However , w(u)du − that w(u ) ( u ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) ) is a constant function by contradiction . Because we assumed that ˜p(u ) is a continuous function on [ 0 , 1 ] , w(u ) is also continuous on [ 0 , 1 ] . Further , it must be uniformly continuous on [ 0 , 1 ] . Suppose there exists u1 , u2 ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) satisfying that |w(u1 ) − w(u2)| > . By the uniform continuity , there must exist δ satisfying ∀|u − u| < δ and |w(u)− w(u)| < 3 . We conduct the function ξ(u ) as follows :
1 It is obvious that 1 fififi u1+δ fififi 1 fififi = ≥fifi(w(u1 ) − w(u2)fifi − 2 This is contradictory with 1 1 0 ξ(u)w(u)du = 0 under condition 0 ξ(u)du = 0 . Thus , w(u ) ( u ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) ) is a constant function . Further , based on Equation ( 16 ) , h(u ) is a constant function and ˜pI ( u ) is also a constant function . We denote ˜pI ˜pI ( u ) for any u ∈ ( 0 , 1 ) and then ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ) must be a revenue optimal fixed pay as you go pricing . Conversely , if ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ) is a revenue optimal fixed pay as you go pricing , ( 0 , 0 , ˜pI ( u ) ) must be a revenue optimal demand based pay asyou go pricing where ˜pI ( u ) = ˜pI for any u ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] = [ 0 , U ] . ' Therefore , Proposition 4 concludes . Proof of Theorem 4 : This theorem could be proofed by the same method with Theorem 3 . In particular , we could derive results which are similar with Proposition 3 and 4 to show that a welfare optimal fixed pay as you go pricing is also a welfare optimal demand based pay as you go pricing , which generates no lower revenue compared with any demand based two part pricing . Thus , any welfare optimal pay as you go pricing is also a global welfare optimal two part pricing . '
> 0 .
3
3
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] X . Wang , R . T . B . Ma , and Y . Xu , “ The role of data cap in optimal two part network pricing , ” Proceedings of the 24th International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW ) , 2015 .
[ 2 ] X . Wang , R . T . B . Ma , and Y . Xu , “ The role of data cap in two part pricing under market competition , ” Proceedings of the 4th Smart Data Pricing Workshop ( SDP ) , 2015 .
[ 3 ] X . Wang , R . T . B . Ma , and Y . Xu , “ The role of data cap in two part pricing under market competition , ” IEEE Network , vol . 30(2 ) , 2016 .
[ 4 ] A . Odlyzko , “ Internet pricing and the history of communications , ”
Computer networks , vol . 36 , no . 5 , pp . 493–517 , 2001 .
[ 5 ] C . Labovitz , D . McPherson , S . Iekel Johnson , J . Oberheide , and F . Jahanian , “ Internet inter domain traffic , ” ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review , vol . 41 , no . 4 , pp . 75–86 , 2011 .
[ 6 ] P . Nabipay , A . Odlyzko , and Z L Zhang , “ Flat versus metered rates , bundling , and “ bandwidth hog ” , ” 6th Workshop on the Economics of Networks , Systems , and Computation , 2011 .
[ 7 ] M . Morgan , “ Pricing schemes key in LTE future , ” Telecomasia . net .
September 12 , 2011 .
2011 .
[ 8 ] L . Segall , “ Verizon ends unlimited data plan , ” CNN Money . July , vol . 6 ,
[ 9 ] P . Taylor , “ AT&T imposes usage caps on fixed line broadband , ” Finan cial Times . March , vol . 14 , 2011 .
[ 10 ] R . Edell and P . Varaiya , “ Providing Internet access : What we learn from
INDEX , ” IEEE Network , vol . 13 , no . 5 , pp . 18–25 , 1999 .
[ 11 ] W . Dai and S . Jordan , “ Design and impact of data caps , ” IEEE Global
Communications Conference , pp . 1650–1656 , 2013 .
[ 12 ] F . O . I . A . Committee , “ Policy issues in data caps and usage based pricing , ” Annual Report , 2013 .
[ 13 ] A . Schatz and S . E . Ante , “ FCC chief backs usage based broadband pricing , ” Wall Street Journal , December 2 , 2010 .
[ 14 ] W . Y . Oi , “ A disneyland dilemma : Two part tariffs for a mickey mouse monopoly , ” The Quarterly Journal of Economics , pp . 77–96 , 1971 .
[ 15 ] P . S . Calem and D . F . Spulber , “ Multiproduct two part tariffs , ” International Journal of Industrial Organization , vol . 2 , no . 2 , pp . 105–115 , 1984 .
[ 16 ] S . C . Littlechild , “ Two part tariffs and consumption externalities , ” The
Bell Journal of Economics , pp . 661–670 , 1975 .
[ 17 ] S . Scotchmer , “ Two tier pricing of shared facilities in a free entry equilibrium , ” The Rand Journal of Economics , pp . 456–472 , 1985 .
[ 18 ] W . Dai and S . Jordan , “ How do ISP data caps affect subscribers ? , ”
Telecommunications Policy Research Conference TPRC , 2013 .
[ 19 ] A . Odlyzko , B . S . Arnaud , E . Stallman , and M . Weinberg , “ Know your limits : Considering the role of data caps and usage based billing in Internet access service , ” Public Knowledge , April 23 , 2012 .
[ 20 ] M . Chetty , R . Banks , A . Brush , J . Donner , and R . Grinter , “ You’re capped : understanding the effects of bandwidth caps on broadband use in the home , ” Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp . 3021–3030 , 2012 .
[ 21 ] K . Poularakis , I . Pefkianakis , J . Chandrashekar , and L . Tassiulas , “ Pricing the last mile : Data capping for residential broadband , ” ACM SIGCOMM CoNEXT , pp . 295–306 , 2014 .
[ 22 ] P . Hande , M . Chiang , R . Calderbank , and J . Zhang , “ Pricing under constraints in access networks : Revenue maximization and congestion management , ” Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM , pp . 1–9 , 2010 .
[ 23 ] S . Li , J . Huang , and S Y Li , “ Revenue maximization for communication networks with usage based pricing , ” Global Telecommunications Conference , pp . 1–6 , 2009 .
[ 24 ] T . Basar and R . Srikant , “ Revenue maximizing pricing and capacity expansion in a many users regime , ” Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM , pp . 294–301 , 2002 .
[ 25 ] H . Shen and T . Basar , “ Optimal nonlinear pricing for a monopolistic network service provider with complete and incomplete information , ” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications , vol . 25 , no . 6 , pp . 1216–1223 , 2007 .
[ 26 ] P . Chander and L . Leruth , “ The optimal product mix for a monopolist in the presence of congestion effects : A model and some results , ” International Journal of Industrial Organization , vol . 7 , no . 4 , pp . 437– 449 , 1989 .
[ 27 ] D . Reitman , “ Endogenous quality differentiation in congested markets , ” The Journal of Industrial Economics , vol . 39 , no . 6 , pp . 621–647 , 1991 . [ 28 ] R . T . B . Ma , “ Pay as you go pricing and competition in congested network service markets , ” Proceedings of the 22nd IEEE International Conference on Network Protocols ( ICNP ) , pp . 257–268 , 2014 .
[ 29 ] R . T . B . Ma and V . Misra , “ The public option : a non regulatory alternative to network neutrality , ” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking , vol . 21 , pp . 1866–1879 , Dec 2013 .
[ 30 ] T . Gryta , “ FCC votes to allow municipal broadband , overruling two states’ laws , ” Wall Street Journal , Feb 26 , 2015 .
[ 31 ] R . T . B . Ma , J . C . Lui , and V . Misra , “ On the evolution of the Internet economic ecosystem , ” Proceedings of the 22nd International World Wide Web Conference , pp . 849–860 , 2013 .
[ 32 ] C K Chau , Q . Wang , and D M Chiu , “ On the viability of Paris Metro pricing for communication and service networks , ” Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM , pp . 1–9 , 2010 .
[ 33 ] R . Gibbens , R . Mason , and R . Steinberg , “ Internet service classes under competition , ” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications , vol . 18 , no . 12 , pp . 2490–2498 , 2000 .
[ 34 ] R . Jain , T . Mullen , and R . Hausman , “ Analysis of Paris Metro pricing strategy for QoS with a single service provider , ” Quality of Service IWQoS , pp . 44–58 , 2001 .
