Leveraging Semantic Web Technologies for More Relevant
E tourism Behavioral Retargeting
Chun LU
Sépage & STIH chun@sepage.fr
Milan Stankovic
Sépage & STIH milstan@sepage.fr
Philippe Laublet
STIH , Université Paris Sorbonne philippe.laublet@paris sorbonne.fr
ABSTRACT The e tourism is today an important field of the e commerce . One specificity of this field is that consumers spend much time comparing many options on multiple websites before purchasing . It ’s easy for consumers to forget the viewed offers or websites . The Behavioral Retargeting ( BR ) is a widely used technique for online advertising . It leverages consumers’ actions on advertisers’ websites and displays relevant ads on publishers’ websites . In this paper , we’re interested in the relevance of the displayed ads in the e tourism field . We present MERLOT 1 , a Semantic based travel destination recommender system that can be deployed to improve the relevance of BR in the e tourism field . We conducted a preliminary experiment with the real data of a French travel agency . The results of 33 participants showed very promising results with regards to the baseline according to all used metrics . By this paper , we wish to provide a novel viewpoint to address the BR relevance problem , different from the dominating machine learning approaches . Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords e tourism ; Behavioral Retargeting ; travel destination ; recommender systems ; Semantic Web 1 . INTRODUCTION The e tourism is today an important field of the e commerce . According to Google 2013 Traveler [ 11 ] , more than 80 % people do travel planning online . One specificity of this field is that consumers ( more than 60 % ) spend much time comparing many options on multiple websites before purchasing because finding value is important . In average , 45 days are spent and 38 visits to travel sites are conducted before booking [ 5 ] . So when people leave a travel website , it doesn’t necessarily mean that they aren’t interested or don’t like the offers of the website . It might just mean that they want to compare with other options . In this stage of travel shopping , it ’s easy for people to forget the offers or the name of the travel website . These people wouldn’t return and they are thus lost . Behavioral Retargeting ( BR ) is a widely used technique to address this problem . BR is a form of online targeted advertising . It leverages consumers’ actions on advertisers’ websites and displays relevant ads on publishers’ websites . Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742001
We’re interested in the relevance of the displayed ads in the etourism field . 68 % of people begin planning travel online without having a clear travel destination in mind [ 11 ] . Our research hypotheses are that the travel destinations have a big impact on the relevance of the displayed ads and by improving the relevance of the travel destinations we can improve the relevance of displayed ads . The main contribution from this paper is a Semantic based travel destination recommender system that can be deployed to improve the relevance of BR in the e tourism field . The remainder of the paper is organized as follows . In Section 2 , we present the background of our work ; in Section 3 , we present the MERLOT 1 system ; in Section 4 , we present the conducted experiments ; in Section 5 , we conclude the paper . 2 . Background BR systems often consist of two main components . The first component is a bidding system that decides whether to display , where to display and for how much . The second component is a recommender system that decides which ads to display . Much work has been done in the scope of the first component . In [ 6 ] , the authors considered the problem of estimating user ’s propensity to click on an ad or make a purchase . They predicted whether a user in a particular session is a clicker or just a browser . In [ 3 ] , a semantic approach is combined with a syntactic one to improve the relevance of ads for the Contextual advertising . The authors proposed a novel way of matching advertisements to web pages that rely on a semantic topical match as a major component of the relevance score . The semantic match relies on the classification of pages and ads into a 6000 nodes commercial advertising taxonomy to determine their topical distance . As the classification relies on the full content of the page , it is more robust than individual page phrases . The evaluation demonstrated a significant effect of the semantic score component . The relevance considered in this paper is the relevance of an ad with regards to a web page . The relevance in our work is the perceived relevance of an ad itself . The second component is less discussed in BR related papers and is more developed in papers related to recommender systems . The internal functions for recommender systems are characterized by the filtering algorithm . The most widely used classification divides the filtering algorithms into : ( a ) collaborative filtering , ( b ) demo graphic filtering , ( c ) content based filtering and ( d ) hybrid filtering [ 2 ] . Criteo 1 is a popular performance advertising technology company whose global reach is placed as second only to Google ’s Display Network [ 8 ] . We didn’t find published papers that explain in detail their approach . By consulting their official website and several journalistic articles [ 1,4,10,12 ] , we believe
1 http://wwwcriteocom/
1287 deeper more re In the c sources the help is now conside travel d semant One of data gr assume graphs destina prefere recomm system order to 3.2 T Sugg understanding o elevant ads with context of the ex s , under the init p of various gov w rich with free erable number o data , usable for tic proximity . f the objectives raphs to generat e that the infor can help us con ation recomme ences and to the mendations may . It works in th o improve its cap The relevan gestion Proc of user actions , h higher likelihoo xponential grow tiative called Lin vernmental Ope ely exploitable of those source calculating trave thus being able od of click and c wth of public stru nking Open Dat en Data initiativ semantic data es concern geog el destination re e to provide conversion . uctured data ta2 and with es , the Web sources . A graphical or elevance and of MERLOT 1 te useful destina rmational richne nstruct a flexibl endation , easil specifics of diff y take place . ME he background pacity to better s nce calculati cess is to leverage t ation recommend ess of those sem le and versatile ly adaptable ferent scenarios i ERLOT 1 is not of an e tourism serve the user . ion & Destin the semantic dations . We mantic data approach to to users’ in which the t a front end m website in nation ine learning coll laborative filterin ng inly some machi th hat they use mai a approach . 7 ] evaluates w [ c consumers with in nterest . The resu n narrowly constru a and detailed prod r espond positivel d days’ ads clicks search engine s strategies and va s shows that Beha a advertising and u is s more effective his paper , we w th c consumers freq c comparing , a ric im mplicitly . Based d display ads havin T The semantic ap o of two informat k keywords ) by ex a a semantic graph p publishing of Lin r esources of diffe a are interconnecte g given on the Fig w with the resourc r esource is also p properties ( eg p v value for the sam whether indeed information tha ults showed that ucted preference duct information ly to ads display through log d to compare alidate the effec avioral Targeting using short term e than using lon work in this dire quently navigat ch short term p d on the constru ng relevant trave pproach that we tional resources xploiting the path h . Semantic grap nked Data are da erent types , each ed with links of gure 1 , we can ce France with o described with population , latitu me property may d firms benefit at is highly spec t consumers wh s have a greater n and therefore a ying specific pro ata coming fro different Beha ctiveness . The e g can do a grea m user behaviors ng term user beh ction . In the e t ting , clicking , preferences prof ucted profile , ou el destinations . propose calcula s ( eg , persons hs between those phs , such as tho ata structures wh h having a uniqu f different types see the resource the link of type h literal values ude ) . Resources be considered im t from targetin cific to their pri ho have develope r focus on specif are more likely oducts . [ 13 ] uses om a commerci avioral Targetin experiment resul at help for onlin to represent use haviors for BR . tourism case , wi consulting an file is constructe ur system tries ng ior ed fic to s 7 ial ng lts ne ers In ith nd ed to ates the relevan ce es , s , books , movie in e two resources om ose resulting fro nal here information ue identifier – UR RI , ple s . In the examp e Paris connecte ed his e “ country ” . Th its for some of i sharing the sam me . mplicitly linked . mantic graph
F Figure 1 . Examp 3 . MERLO 3 In n this section , w 3.1 Motivat 3 T The realization o a and by the deve g great promises f engines . MERLO e Provide plausi d destination choic u user ’s destination th he purchase of r w which often caus p proper choice th s several , diverse r elevant choice to Leverage pub elevant to trave r ple part of a sem OT 1 system we present the de tions and M of MERLOT 1 elopments in the for the concepti OT 1 should repl ible alternative ce . This is espec n choice , in the g reasonably price ses frustration w hat fits their bud enough recom o the user . licly available , el , to augment th ds fer nce sign of the MER Main assump is motivated bo e technological ion of next gen ly to the followin destinations to ially useful if fo given time interv ed tickets and ho ith users having dget . The system mmendations in
RLOT 1 system . ptions oth by user nee context that off neration relevan ng user needs : a user ’s curre or some reason th val does not allo otel arrangement trouble to make m should provid order to offer ent he ow ts , e a de a
Linked Data k he user behavio knowledge base or data , and glea es , an
Figure MERLO as a tra user's c pages t travel . semant applied The obj of user such a classes that the transfor travel sources the sys when c definiti website clients availab e 2 . MERLOT OT 1 replies to avel website ) . Th context ( a destin that the user v This input is fir tic form . Two tr d : extraction of bjective of date s rs desired travel , as "weekend" , " will help adap e user is interes rmation of place website to sta s . In addition to tem stores the r calculating the s ion more divers e as it contains of MERLOT ble semantic dat
1 system workf a query submitt he query may co nation he is con viewed and the rst treated by ME ransformations , date semantics semantics modu , as well as past "bank holiday" , pt the recommen sted in . Place di e names , as pro andardized nam o semantically p received queries semantic proxim se than the hist queries collecte 1 . Using histo ta sources , the flow ted by another s ontain informatio sidering to trave history of use ERLOT 1 to tra detailed in furth and place disa ule is to transfor travels , to sema , "summer holi ndations to the isambiguation c vided by the us es used in sem processing the r as “ history ” for mities . Such a h tory data of an ed from various orical data , as w system then ca ystem ( such on about the el to ) , travel r's previous ansform it to her text , are ambiguation . rm the dates antic classes iday" . Such type of trip concerns the er or by the mantic data request data , r further use history is by ny particular s websites – well as the alculates the
2 http://
/linkeddata.org/
1288 estinations with t larity measure u it calculates both o their geograph n the semantic g in further text used in its place destinations wit the destinations used by MERLO h the proximity hical distance an graph . We prese , as well as th e . In the final ste th regards to the in OT of nd ent he ep eir describe the dif e details . fferent parts of th he of ng rip ell an input to the s or which the us a list of previou f origin and a de oing trip and of r all those element without the histo tem . It is also po past trips in cas ion , and the trav to generate rec system consists ser is considerin us trips . Each tr estination , as we return trip . ts . For instance , ory of past trips ossible to imagin se the user did n vel website of h ommendations it in ne not his in consists of a li sited by the us n such a list of p cular e commer roducts that the tory . tion erns a mapping places in the use those same plac st of travel offe ser . Existing B pages that is put rce catalogue user consulted b ers BR in of by g of keywords ( er query to a fini es in the semant
( or ite tic ord ity te , pts on ris his ers e : K ∪ T →C ( t provides , for K ) or a given ta used by a particu d in a semantic word “ Paris , Fran http://dbpedia . a chosen sema nified set of dest biguity and ident oncept extracto edia Spotlight 5 ) d for this reason s feasible ( either ptations ) .
1 ) a given keywo axonomical enti ular travel websit graph of concep nce ” , this functio org/resource/Par antic graph . Th tination identifie tity problems . rs for text ( e . , can be used n , we assume th r by using one
g to hat of s similarity scores th he user query . W 1 1 the geo semant tw wo destinations w with regards to t th his measure in a alternative measu th he system ranks g geo semantic pro In n the following ecommendation r 3.3 Input 3 T The query that i s several trips : a b buying a ticket c consists of two p a as of two dates – A A query does no is s possible to im th he case of a user a a query only with y yet specify his d c choice is using a anticipation of hi In n the context of f found in pages s systems already t c correspondence p products in order b browsing the pag 3.4 Place D 3 T The place disam ta axonomic entitie s set of concepts u d data graphs . of candidate de We call the simi tic proximity as with regards to their distance in n more details ures that can be s the alternative oximity scores . subsections we n process in more is provided as a desired trip , fo and generally a places – place of – the date of ongo ot always have a magine a query w r new to the sys h the history of desired destinati MERLOT 1 t is search . f BR , the input previously vis track and rely on with a partic r to determine p ges from the hist Disambiguat mbiguation conce es ) referring to p used to describe return
D Disambiguate is ( from the set of fr from the taxonom a a corresponding C C . For instance , f w would p provided that D tr ransformation al in n all calculation E Existing method Zemanta 3 , Open Z p perform this tran th he place disamb th hose services or 3.5 Date Se 3 T The phase of dat a any significant
3 http://developer 4 http://www.ope 5 http://dbpedia.o disambiguate a function tha f all keywords K my of places T u concept defined for a given keyw the concept DBPedia.org is llows to use a un s and avoid amb ds , such as co nCalais 4 , DBPe nsformation , and biguation task is their small adap emantics te semantics pro date classes a rzemantacom/ encalais.com/ org/spotlight/use d contains a he nature of for summer for different y of the class on and adapt re using the refine in the cornere week e which i holiday types o of date the rec followi future : If sever only on domina over ba less fre travelin Thanks determi DBPed contain Additio may e determi prove v In the c particul perform 3.6 D Follow Process ( desired ed by a trip . Fo end it is indicati is often different ys . Users often of trips and the m s is to better un commendations ing list of date c weekend , bank ral classes may ne – the domina ant over weeken ank holiday . Th equent date cla ng on the given d s to the availa ine the date cla dia.org it is poss ns a weekend , onally , longer h easily be labele ination is thus very useful later case the travel o lar dates , then med . This step is Destination wing the Place sing phases , the d and past ) in th T = trip is short and weekend trip , th aken in summer nt destinations f nd the discovery ely user intentio moment we ar may extend or r mmer holiday . or instance if a t ive that it is a w t than the trips ta choose differen motivation behin nderstand the like to it . For the classes , that we holiday and sum be attributed to ant one . We co nd , and that su he intuition behin ass is more lik dates than the m able open data ass automaticall sible to decide i a bank holiday olidays on place ed as summer a feasible and r on . offers that the u n the data sem s thus optional . Calculation n Similarity C ion and Date e Disambiguati e data is transfo ormed in the fo m : he following form d,DC> ( 2 ) = <Po,Pd,Do,Dd user consulted c mantics analysis val we chose k holiday is is dominant h is that the reason for one time interv onsider that bank ummer holiday i nd this approach kely to be the e . more frequent one possible to sources it is ly . By looking u up dates on ime interval if a particular ti y of origin . y in the country h in summer es with a beach date class holidays . The ask that will rather simple ta contained no cannot be
Semantics orm of trips
T consists of : URI identifying a URI identifyin a place of origin ng a destination n in a given sema n place in a give antic graph en semantic
) he date of outwa he date of return he dominant dat ata consist of two consists of past query , consisting main task of the ate the similarity nk them with reg er either as alte , or as inspiring er undertaking a ard trip ( optional trip ( optional ) e class ( optional l ) user profile , s : the semantic u o main elements d the current mantic form and trips in the sem he semantic form m . g of one trip in th ulation is to Similarity Calcu e Destination S alternatives able destination y scores of availa will interest lihood that they gards to the likel ernative destina ations to his cu urrent travel vate him to that might motiv g destinations t new trip .
A trip T Po a U Pd – a graph Do – th Dd – th DC – th The da which travel q The m calcula and ran the use project conside cessing consists appear within t s of determining the travel perio if od ersmanual
The sim place d set PD his que of user searchi the sim milarity functio destination , Pc , t may contain on ery , or may conta r trips . All of ing for the most milarity scores c on calculates the to a set of given ne destination P ain several desti them may be appropriate alte can be precalcul e similarity of n place destinatio Pd that the user inations found in taken into acc ernative destinat lated to a certa a candidate ons PD . The specified in n the history count when tion . Ideally , ain extent to
1289 accelerate the operation of the destination recommendation engine . 361 Hybrid Geo semantic Proximity Calculation Hybrid Geo semantic Proximity ( HGSP ) is the core destination measure used by MERLOT 1 . This measure combines two proximity scores : the score of proximity in the semantic graph of concepts ( semprox ) and the score of proximity by geographical distance ( dist ) . simHGSP ( Pd,Pc ) = semprox(Pd,Pc ) • dist(Pd,Pc ) ( 4 ) The geographical distance ( dist ) assures that the suggested destination alternatives are not in disproportion to the distance that the user is willing to travel . Suggesting a traveler from Paris interested in going to Cannes to travel to Hawaii instead would be inappropriate , despite the level of semantic similarity between Cannes and Hawaii destinations . The role of dist function is thus primarily in filtering . It augments the score of semantic proximity for places on the similar distance to the initial distance that the user was willing to pass , tolerates places found on a much shorter distance and penalizes the places found on much greater distance . The motivation for such a function is the intuition that users might more likely prefer to travel within similar or shorter distance to those initially planned .
As shown in equation 5 , the dist function associates the value 2 to the places Pc found on a similar distance from the place of origin Pc as the place where users initially wanted to travel Pd . This geographical distance is expressed by the function geod . A thresholdδis used to define how great the difference in distance can be tolerated for a candidate place to be considered close enough . In our experiments we useδ=0.2 , so the places found on a distance 20 % shorter or greater than the initial distance ( geod(Pd,Po ) ) that the user was prepared to pass , can be considered as close enough . For the places found in a distance much shorter than those specified by the threshold , the dist function asserts the value 1 , and considers them as the second best choice . For the places found in a distance greater than the threshold , the dist function attributes an exponentially decreasing value in function of the actual distance . Such places will obtain values of dist lower then 1 . The semprox fuction quantifies the strength of connections between the initial destination place Pd and the place candidate Pc in a semantic graph . The semantic graph G is composed of a set of informational resources , a subset of which ( D ) designate places – destinations that are linked with typed links , where T is the set of link types . We define a rather simple graph proximity function , that only takes into account the number and the length of paths that two resources in the graph . To improve the performance of the proximity function in the future it is possible to include more advanced weighting functions . Our function , formalized by the formula 6 , calculates the graph proximity of places Pd and Pc in a semantic graph G . We used DBpedia as the semantic graph , but any other graph ( or their combinations ) may be used in the future . According to our formula the semprox proximity of two places is calculated by taking into account all the paths in the graph that exist between these two places . For each path a score is calculated based on the length of the path and the importance of the graph pattern that the path fits into .
The importance function allows fine tuning the approach and giving more priority to places connected over paths that are more indicative of their semantic similarity . It is this function that allows leveraging the semantic nature of links and taking into account the different types of links and paths . Different importance functions may be used . In the actual version of the system , we used a simple importance function defined by the equation 7 . In the future , it would be possible to even further refine this function to focus only on particular link types that prove to be the most significant over time .
Our importance function asserts the value 1 to a path p if p confirms to a pattern t from the predefined set of preferred patterns T . Out set T consists of the patterns represented graphically on the figure below . This particular selection is the result of observations of data structures in the DBpedia graph . The chosen graph patterns show best performance and link the most similar destinations to one another .
Figure 3 . Example of graph patterns Our patterns cover the paths established between a place Pd and Pc so that , both Pd and Pc are the targets of links of the same type ( represent the values of the same property typeOfLink1 ) reaching from either the same concept ( image on the left ) or connected concepts ( image on the right ) . In the former case , the concepts can be connected with the paths of variable types and it is the length(p ) function that will allow us to factor in this length when calculating the score of proximity established over a particular path . An example of an eligible path could be established over a concept that represents an event , for instance Olympic Games , that is connected with the concepts representing Paris and London with the link type “ heldIn ” . While the fact that the same event took place in a particular city some time ago would rarely motivate someone to visit that city , when calculating place similarity this fact may be useful . Similar events are often organized in similar places , and we indeed observed in our data that this pattern is an interesting one to follow . In practice , we calculate the semprox measure by running SPARQL queries on DBpedia to retrieve the candidate places Pc that are findable in the graph proximity of the initial destination Pd , on paths that confirm to our path patterns . Once the place candidates have been collected and the paths lengths calculated it is easy to calculate the semprox value . The calculation of the geographical distance is also possible by relying on DBpedia data about the geographic coordinates of places Pd and Pc . In practice , in order to co accelerate the calculation process , we perform a single SPARQL query containing both the conditions for semprox and dist functions .
1290 4 . Prelimin nary Evaluat 4 horoughly comp P Performing a th mplement a bi r equire us to im ick through rate c calculate the cl not yet able to d r esearch we are n re we isolate th u user study wher l of Internet use q question a panel hat they click on th he likelihood th and by the baseli ine . a 4.1 Baseline e 4 at we compare w T The baseline tha A Among its client ts , Criteo is used OT 1 to recomm a also uses MERL LOT 1 are instal C Criteo and MERL averaging 60k un o on this website , a a ads of this adver rtiser are display Criteo system u M MERLOT 1 and mpare our propos a allows us to com achine learning b believe is a ma eline on the sam u used by the base c commerce offer c catalogue . 4.2 Experim ment proced 4 a questionnaire W We established a ollowing steps : to o perform the fo T The main steps th hat participants f 1 . Participants put themselves 1 their next travel options for r travel ( for insta occasion for 2 . They went t 2 to the mentioned nsider at least 3 asked to con s with travel off least 3 page 3 . They were redirected to t 3 baseline sy stems showed i each of the 3 o evaluated e Scale . Relevance S 4 . The evaluat tion form led th 4 he same placem where on th MERLOT 1 1 were placed in ach of the 3 offe evaluated ea 5 . They gave a an overall impres 5 T The system rando omly changed th Relevance Scale T The Five Level R 1 . This offer d doesn’t interest m 1 2 . This offer m might be interesti 2 3 . This offer se 3 eems interesting 4 . This offer is s interesting and 4 5 . This offer is 5 s very interesting 4.3 Metrics 4 s metrics to gauge We used four m W n number of offers s corresponding and F1 score . a T Total number o R Relevance Scale
6 http://www.sofo of offers corres , from level 1 to foot.com/ tion plete evaluation idding system e , which at thi do . We thus perf he behavior of rs ( mixed and a n the ads propos n would actual of our own an is early stage form a prelimina f our interest an aged 23 35 ) abo sed by our syste lly nd of ary nd out em with is the popu d by a French tr mend travel on th lled to track user nique visitors a m yed on the webs use two differen sed semantic app collaborative fi me input data an ular Criteo engin ravel website , th heir website . Bo r browsing histo month . The Crite site of “ So Foot6 nt approaches , th proach to what w filtering approac nd on the same ne . hat oth ory eo 6 ” . his we ch , e dure online and aske ed the participan nts followed are : s into the scenar l . They had to im ance next holida d French travel w offers available fers ) the So Foot we its ads on a rig offers according rio of looking f magine a concre ays ) . website , and we e there ( ie visit for ete ere at ebsite , where th ght sidebar . The g to a Five Lev he ey vel ot , om ey imilar to So Foo hem to a page si ght , 3 offers fro ment on the rig aseline ones . The nstead of the ba the same scale . rs according to t comment . ssion and a free 3 and 4 . he order of steps that we used is : me at all . ing but I don’t cl g but I hesitate to I click to know g and I click to k lick . o click . more . know more . the relevance pe g to each level , erformance : Tot Precision , Reca tal all sponding to ea o 5 , the relevanc ach level : In th ce is in ascendin he ng
F1 scor order . T 5 , the b Precisi number and 2 a and the relevan intentio
The more there better relevance p ion is the numb r of offers . We c as not relevant , o ey count 0.5 , o nt and they cou on to click .
4.4 R 33 part the met
Recall evaluat appreci the num
Results & D ticipants answere trics mentioned is modified to ted only the iation about the mber of relevan nt offers of the tw
( cid:1868)(cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1861)(cid:1861)(cid:1867 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1856)(cid:1861)(cid:1858)(cid:1861)(cid:1857)(cid:1856 ) ( cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1853)(cid:1864)(cid:1864)(cid:1865 ) relevan(cid:1865)(cid:1867 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1853)(cid:1864 ) ( cid:1865)(cid:1854)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1867 ) re is the harmon(cid:1832 ) 010203040 00.51 00.51
5 10 1
Level1
Level2
5 10 1 e 5 . Results of pr e 4 . Total numb
0
0
Figure
Figure
Figure e 6 . Results of re ecall metric are offers corre performance the ber of relevant consider that off offers correspon offers correspon unt 1 as they
( cid:1865)(cid:1854)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1853)(cid:1864 ) ( cid:1865)(cid:1854 ) sponding to leve e system has . offers divided b fers correspondin ding to level 3 h nding to level 4 correspond to
( cid:1857)(cid:1864)(cid:1857)(cid:1853 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858)(cid:1858)(cid:1857 )
( cid:1854)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858)(cid:1858)(cid:1857 ) els closer to by the total ng to level 1 half relevant 4 and 5 are an explicit participants know their fied recall is number of
( cid:1877)(cid:1857)(cid:1865 ) adapt to our s displayed ads non displayed nt offers divide wo systems .
( cid:1865)(cid:1854)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858 ) ( cid:1857)(cid:1864)(cid:1857)(cid:1853 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858 ) ( cid:1857)(cid:1864)(cid:1857)(cid:1853 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858)(cid:1858 ) 2∗ ( cid:1868)(cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1861)(cid:1861)(cid:1867 ) ( cid:1868)(cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1861)(cid:1861)(cid:1867 ) nic mean of preci situation . Since . We don’t k ads . The modif ed by the total
( cid:1853 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858)(cid:1858)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1858)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1867)(cid:1858 ) ( cid:1860)(cid:1857 ) 2 ∗(cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1853)(cid:1864)(cid:1864 ) ( cid:3397)(cid:1857)(cid:1855)(cid:1853)(cid:1864)(cid:1864 ) ision and recall .
Discussion ed our questionn above . naire . Here are th he results of er of offers corr responding to e each level
Level3
Level4
L Level5
15 20 25
30 recision metric
15 20 25
30
MEBa ERLOT 1 seline
MEBa ERLOT 1 seline MEBa ERLOT 1 seline
1291 00.51
0
5
10 15 20
25 30
MERLOT 1 Baseline ts of F1 score m can see a clear ad of relevant offe gs higher chanc re respectively r ERLOT 1 outpe e of MERLOT 27 . Since these howed to each u also interesting king at the first ith 0.359 ( vs . 0.3 ffer where most .5 vs . 0234 ) Th baseline system r ( likely to be h m doesn’t show th etrics , we were both systems ) to rresponding to 0.271 for our sy values are too h robability of cli e generous in cli g behavior , but equally high fo study , and syst easonable to bel potential of MER f used in a real ome participant are diverse and s too similar to th iversity and cur ain a part of the d metric dvantage for ME ers ( which corre ces to generate results of precisi erforms the bas 1 offers was 0 results correspo user at a time to observe the d t offer , MERLO 328 for baseline ) of the difference his difference ca m often proposes ighly relevant ) he offers already e interested to o generate a rati the intention ystem vs . 0.177 high to be consi ick , as it is norm icks in a declara we can safely or both system tems were pres lieve that the ob RLOT 1 to gene l browsing scen ts found that the surprising , that th he clicked offers riosity that the M differences creat
ERLOT 1 in term ms 4 espond to Level click worthy ad ds . F1 ion , recall and F he eline system . Th he 0.431 whereas th ge ond to an averag in one ad bann ner by difference offer b tly OT 1 was slight lly ) , but it is actual vor e is made in fav an be explained b by dy s an offer alread ce , on the first plac on y seen . In additio he see what is th of ing 4 or 5 ( one ch to click ) . Suc ne . 7 for the baselin ate idered an accura mal to expect th he ative study then in assume that the eir ers s ( as same use om sented in rando bserved differen ce ckerate higher clic ree nario . In the fr ed e offers generate by hose generated b of s and they lack MERLOT 1 ’s a ds ted in the system ms’ ions e presented MER mmender system Behavioral Reta ated in the ev baseline accordi le size represen results on multip eb data to augm oach to improve ms in the future mantic Web app a more quantita
RLOT 1 , a sem m that can be dep argeting in the e valuation . MER ing to all used m nt limitations t ple metrics , indi ment behaviora e the performan e . After confirm proach , we wil ative setting foc mantic based trav ployed to improv e tourism field . 3 RLOT 1 syste metrics . While th o our study , th icates that the u al data may be nce of behavior ming the promisin ll conduct furth cusing only on a vel ve 33 em he he use a ral ng her ad
F Figure 7 . Result In n Figure 4 , we c o of total number a and 5 ) – it bring F Figure 5 , 6 , 7 ar s score . Again , M a average F1 scor b baseline had 0.2 o over 3 offers sh ( v vertically ) , it is o offer . When loo m more relevant wi o on the second of o of our system ( 0 th he fact that the s seen by the user w while our system to o our main m p probability ( for b th he ratings cor p probability was O Obviously these e estimate for a pr u users to be more r egular browsing g generosity was p performed the s o order ) so it is re m may indicate a p th hrough rates if c comment part , s b by MERLOT 1 a th he baseline are d diversity . The di s show , may expla p performance . 5 . Conclusi 5 In n this paper , we d destination recom th he relevance of p people participa o outperforms the ti ime and sampl c convergence of r o of Semantic We p promising appro r etargeting system n nature of a Sem e experiments in a to explicit user in the merit of pro n smaller sample ES eur Criteo ” . ( 20 wviuzcom/2014 ega , F . , Hernand ender systems su 132 . ura , M . , Josifovs approach to con e 30th annual int search and devel 566 ) . ACM . Data au cœur du Retrieve from .com/webmarket riteo.html> ch : Exploring the august 28 ) . Ret tisingexpediaco avljevic , V . , Grb n Conditional Ra Embeddings for ference on Data & Tucker , C . ( 20 n specificity in o earch , 50(5 ) , 561 Report Reveals lion Users World http://www.crite ases/2014/10/late o ads reach virtu
[ 5 ] click da ata as opposed t per – which has the pap be performed on had to b 6 . RE EFERENC [ 1 ] “ A Au cœur du Mote om <http://www fro mo oteur criteo/> [ 2 ] Bo obadilla , J . , Orte ( 2 2013 ) . Recomme Sy ystems , 46 , 109[3 ] Br roder , A . , Fontou Ju uly ) . A semantic Pr roceedings of the onference on Res co ret trieval ( pp . 559[4 ] “ C Criteo : les Big D ( 2 2015 , January ) . R <h http://proclubic ma arketing paris cr “ C Custom Researc Pu urchase ” . ( 2014 , http://info.advert <h [ 6 ] Dj juric , N . , Radosa N . . ( 2014 ) . Hidden Di istributed User E In nternational Conf Lambrecht , A . , & L wo ork ? information of f Marketing Rese [ 8 ] “ L Latest comScore irtually One Bill Vi Re etrieved from <h ev vents/press relea veals that criteo rev wo orldwide/> [ 9 ] Li iu , K . , & Tang , L rgeting with a so tar int ternational confe ma anagement ( pp . [ 10 ] “ T The Criteo engin htt tp://www.criteo [ 11 ] “ T The 2013 Travel <h http://www.think tra aveler.html> [ 12 ] “ T Tout ce qu’il fau bo ourse le 30 octob <h http://frenchweb vant son entree e av [ 13 ] Ya an , J . , Liu , N . , W ( 2 2009 , April ) . How on nline advertising co onference on Wo
[ 7 ] nterrogation tha oviding detailed e volumes . t we used in insight , but
15 , January ) . Re 4/04/07/au coeur etrieved r du do , A . , & Gutiérr urvey . Knowledg rez , A . ge Based ski , V . , & Riede ntextual advertis ternational ACM lopment in infor el , L . ( 2007 , ing . In M SIGIR rmation reciblage public citaire ” . ting/actualite 53
38096 h to e Traveler's Path trieved from has> om/path to purch amidipati , bovic , M . , & Bha andom Fields wi ith Ad Targeting . In n IEEE ) . Mining ( ICDM ) retargeting 13 ) . When does online advertisin ng . Journal 1 576 . s Reach s that Criteo Ads dwide ” . ( 2015 , J January ) . do.com/news and est comscore rep portn usersually one billion
L . ( 2011 , Octobe ocial twist . In Pr ference on Inform 1815 1824 ) . AC ne ” . ( 2015 , Janua .com/what we d ler ” . ( 2014 , Aug kwithgoogle.com er ) . Large scale roceedings of the mation and know CM . ary ) . Retrieved f do/technology/ gust 28 ) . retrieve m/research studi ut savoir sur Crite bre ” . ( 2015 , Janu b.fr/tout ce quil f en bourse/11450 Wang , G . , Zhang w much can beh g ? . In Proceeding orld wide web ( p eo… avant son e uary ) . Retrieve f faut savoir sur c 00> g , W . , Jiang , Y . , havioral targeting gs of the 18th int pp . 261 270 ) . AC behavioral e 20th ACM wledge from ed from es/2013 entrée en from criteo
& Chen , Z . g help ternational CM .
1292
