Investigating Factors Affecting Personal Data Disclosure
Christos Perentis
Telecom Italia – SKIL & FBK Via Sommarive , 18 – Povo
Trento , I 38123 , Italy perentis@fbk.eu
Michele Vescovi Telecom Italia – SKIL
Via Sommarive , 18 – Povo
Trento , I 38123 , Italy michelevescovi@telecomitaliait lepri@fbk.eu
Bruno Lepri
FBK
Via Sommarive , 18 – Povo
Trento , I 38123 , Italy
ABSTRACT Mobile devices , sensors and social networks have dramatically increased the collection and sharing of personal and contextual information of individuals . Hence , users constantly make disclosure decisions on the basis of a difficult trade off between using services and data protection . Understanding the factors linked to the disclosure behavior of personal information is a step forward to assist users in their decisions . In this paper , we model the disclosure of personal information and investigate their relationships not only with demographic and self reported individual characteristics , but also with real behavior inferred from mobile phone usage . Preliminary results show that real behavior captured from mobile data relates with actual sharing behavior , providing the basis for future predictive models .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ User/Machine Systems ] : [ User Interfaces ] : Policy Issues ] : [ privacy ]
[ human factors ] ; H52 [ user centered design ] ; K41 [ Public
Keywords Personal Data , Living Lab , Human Factors
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The wide spread use of mobile devices and their capability of collecting information about human behavior have boosted personal data production . Moreover , services like online social networks and other popular mobile applications allow people to increasingly share their personal information ( eg current location , activities , etc . ) [ 6 ] . Subsequently , unprecedented privacy concerns are raised as users continuously deal with personal information disclosure decisions . Researchers have focused on the role of various factors linked to the attitudes towards data disclosure : eg interpersonal relationships [ 2 ] ; user characteristics such as age [ 1 ] , gender or personality traits [ 8 ] ; the typology of the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742757 data to be disclosed [ 5 ] . Besides considering only demographic information , self reported individual traits and privacy dispositions , our study considers real behavioral features about social interactions captured automatically by mobile phones like communication ( calls and SMSs ) , locations and self reported expenses captured by a mobile phone app . In order to investigate all the aforementioned factors , we undertook a field study with a community of 63 subjects that were provided with ( i ) a smart phone incorporating a sensing software explicitly designed for collecting mobile phone data ; and ( ii ) a Personal Data Store ( PDS ) : a system meant to both enable individuals to control the disclosure of their data with the other members of the community and to keep track of their actual sharing behavior . A distinguishing feature of our approach is that we observe actual sharing behavior rather than attitudes expressed through questionnaires . Preliminary results indicate that sharing behavior is related with the individuals’ traits as well as with communication and PDS usage features .
2 . FIELD STUDY
In this work , we report a study conducted in 20 male and
43 female members of the MTL ( wwwmobileterritoriallab eu ) community . Participants’ age ranged from 28 to 46 years old ( mean = 38.67 and standard deviation = 334 ) They held a variety of occupations and education levels . All were savvy Android users . All participants lived in Italy and the vast majority were Italians .
Sensed Data . All users where provided with a smart phone equipped with a sensing software that runs in a passive manner and does not interfere with the normal usage of the phone . The collected data types were : i ) Location ( GPS ) , ii ) Call & SMS logs , and ( iii ) daily expenses collected via mobile app . From the collected behavioral data we computed 3 features per data type to use in the analysis like : i ) total number of : visited locations , calls ( outgoing/incoming ) , SMS ( sent/received ) , and expenses transactions , ii ) unique number of : locations visited , Call contacts , SMS contacts , type & category of expenses , and iii ) diversity of : locations , calls , SMS and expenses [ 3 ] .
Personal Data Store . The system stores the participant ’s information and permits user to exercise full control on own data ( eg collect , share , delete ) [ 10 ] . By using the PDS Sharing Area , subjects can decide about whether and how to disclose their different data types ( ie locations , calls & SMS , expenses ) to the other participants choos
89 ing the desired disclosure level , distinguished into : ( i ) Do Not Share ; ( ii ) Share Anonymously ; ( iii ) Share Not Anonymously . Depending on these preferences the PDS makes user data visible and provides a relative feedback to enable comparisons between community members . A user not sharing data can access only the Individual Views ( eg charts , pies ) that aggregate user behavior . If one chooses Share Anonymously , the Social Views release user data to the community and user receives community feedback ; both aggregated and anonymously . Finally , if the selection is Share Not Anonymously , detailed data with demographics are released . We also considered the role played by PDS usage by computing the total number of subjects accessed the : ( i ) PDS system , ( ii ) Individual Views and ( iii ) Social Views per data type .
Procedure . The study took place for 15 weeks . Before the beginning of the study participants were requested to fill a survey about demographic information and other individual traits like : Big 5 personality traits [ 7 ] , Locus of Control [ 4 ] and Privacy Concerns [ 9 ] . At the first week of the study , participants were asked to set their initial disclosure preference per data type using the Sharing Area of the PDS . From that time on , subjects were free to change their setting at will and at any time . At the end of the study individuals were asked to set their final sharing preferences on the PDS .
3 . DATA ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
Our main goal was to model the disclosure of personal information . Hence , we constructed dependent variables taking into account the final disclosing choices that subjects set in the PDS ; one for each data type : Location , Interactions ( calls & SMS ) and Expenses . We observe from the frequency tables that the Do Not Share choice has few occurrences ( it was selected only by a couple of subjects ) , therefore we merged it with the closest option Share Anonymously .
Next , we focused only on share Anonymously and Not Anonymously choices considering three dichotomous variables , one per data type , depicting sharing preference : Final Location , Final Interactions and Final Expenses . Here , we report observed relationships between the dependent variables and i ) the individual traits as well as ii ) the real behavior ( mobile phone logs and PDS logs ) . All the individual traits captured from surveys , the mobile phone data and the PDS logs are normalized scalar scores . We apply the Pointbiserial rbp coefficient to identify linear correlations between dichotomous categorical variables with scale variables .
Firstly , call diversity , which reflects how the communication time of an individual is distributed among its contacts , has a significant positive linear relationship with Final Location ( r2=0.335 with p=0.007 ) , Final Interactions ( r2=0.333 with p=0.008 ) and Final Expenses ( r2=0.309 with p=0014 ) This means that the higher the call diversity score is , the more tends someone to disclose ( by choosing Not Anonymously ) Location , Interactions and Expenses data types .
The Final Location and Final Interactions present significant positive linear relationships with how many times they accessed the Location ( r2=0.374 with p=0.002 ) and the Interaction Social Views ( r2=0.310 with p=0.013 ) , respectively . A way to interpret this finding is that the subjects that are more interested in Social Views ( ie they access them more often to compare their behavior with the rest members of the community ) evaluate this feedback positively , so they tend to be more open in disclosing .
Regarding the individual characteristics and traits , we capture a significant negative linear relationship of Locus of control with the Final Expenses disclosure choice ( r2= − 0.266 with p=0035 ) High score of Locus of Control indicates that individuals do not feel in control of the events happening in their life ( externals ) , while a low score shows the opposite ( internals ) . Therefore , this negative relationship reveals that the more external the individual is , the less open shares ( Anonymously ) the expenses data . As multicollinearity will be a concern when building a model , the relations between all the features correlated with the dependent variables were examined and no significant associations were discovered . The preliminary findings discribed here indicate that real behavior features are useful in understanding disclosing preferences . Building on these results , we aim to formulate predictive models considering more individual traits and factors characterizing the underlying social relationships .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Christofides , A . Muise , and S . Desmarais . Hey mom , what ’s on your facebook ? comparing facebook disclosure and privacy in adolescents and adults . Social Psychology and Personality Science , pages 48–55 , 2011 .
[ 2 ] S . Consolvo , I . E . Smith , T . Matthews , A . LaMarca ,
J . Tabert , and P . Powledge . Location disclosure to social relations : why , when , & what people want to share . In In SIGCHI on Human factors in computing systems , pages 81–90 . ACM , 2005 .
[ 3 ] N . Eagle , M . Macy , and R . Claxton . Network diversity and economic development . Science , 328(5981):1029–1031 , 2010 .
[ 4 ] T . Farma and I . Cortinovis . Un questionario sul “ locus control ” : A questionnaire on the locus of control : its use in the italian context ) . Ricerca in Psicoterapia , 3(2/3):147–155 , 2000 .
[ 5 ] B . P . Knijnenburg , A . Kobsa , and H . Jin .
Dimensionality of information disclosure behavior . International Journal of Human Computer Studies , 71(12):1144–1162 , 2013 .
[ 6 ] N . D . Lane , E . Miluzzo , H . Lu , D . Peebles ,
T . Choudhury , and A . T . Campbell . A survey of mobile phone sensing . Communications Magazine , IEEE , 48(9):140–150 , 2010 .
[ 7 ] M . Perugini and L . Di Blas . The Big Five Marker
Scales ( BFMS ) and the italian AB5C taxonomy : Analyses from an emic etic perspective . Hogrefe & Huber Publishers , 2002 .
[ 8 ] D . Quercia , D . B . Las Casas , J . P . Pesce , D . Stillwell , M . Kosinski , V . Almeida , and J . Crowcroft . Facebook and privacy : The balancing act of personality , gender , and relationship currency . In ICWSM , 2012 . [ 9 ] H . J . Smith , S . J . Milberg , and S . J . Burke .
Information privacy : measuring individuals’ concerns about organizational practices . MIS quarterly , pages 167–196 , 1996 .
[ 10 ] M . Vescovi , C . Perentis , C . Leonardi , B . Lepri , and
C . Moiso . My data store : toward user awareness and control on personal data . In UbiComp : Adjunct Publication , pages 179–182 . ACM , 2014 .
90
