A Universal Design Infrastructure for Multimodal Presentation of Materials in STEM Programs
Leyla Zhuhadar
Dept . of Information Systems Western Kentucky University LeylaZhuhadar@wkuedu
Bryan Carson
Dept . of Library Public Services Western Kentucky University BryanCarson@wkuedu
Jerry Daday
Dept . of Sociology
Western Kentucky University JerryDaday@wkuedu
Olfa Nasraoui
Knowledge Discovery & Web Mining Lab
Dept . of Computer Engineering and Computer Science University of Louisville
Olfanasraoui@louisvilleedu
ABSTRACT We describe a proposed universal design infrastructure that aims at promoting better opportunities for students with disabilities in STEM programs to understand multimedia teaching material . The Accessible Educational STEM Videos Project aims to transform learning and teaching for students with disabilities through integrating synchronized captioned educational videos into undergraduate and graduate STEM disciplines . This Universal Video Captioning ( UVC ) platform will serve as a repository for uploading videos and scripts . The proposed infrastructure is a web based platform that uses the latest WebDAV technology ( Web based Distributed Authoring and Versioning ) to identify resources , users , and content . It consists of three layers : ( i ) an administrative management system ; ( ii ) a faculty/staff user interface ; and ( iii ) a transcriber user interface . We anticipate that by enriching it with captions or transcripts , the multimodal presentation of materials promises to help students with disabilities in STEM programs master the subject better and increase retention . Categories and Subject Descriptors H . INFORMATION SYSTEMS . General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Human Factors . Keywords Universal Design , Video Captioning , Accessibility , STEM . 1 . INTRODUCTION Over the past 30 years , more students with disabilities have taken advantage of the opportunities provided by higher education . The Americans with Disabilities Act [ 1 ] and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [ 2 ] require higher education institutions to provide these students with tools such as video captioning which are necessary for educational success .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082744712
Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act [ 1 ] requires electronic and information technology communications to be made available in an accessible format by alternative means , perceptible by people with disabilities . These provisions apply to all entities—including colleges and universities—that receive federal money [ 2 ] . file
( eg , caption.txt )
During the last eight years , faculty members at WKU have produced over 17,000 video lectures in the STEM disciplines . The Office of Distance Learning captions these videos , a process that is currently performed semi automatically and is extremely tedious . As of the middle of 2013 , only 43 % of the videos were captioned . Meanwhile , it is projected that faculty will generate , on average , an additional 4,000 new video lectures each year . In 2007 , the Office of Distance Learning developed the first opensource closed captioning software [ 3 ] . This Time Stamped Java program takes text transcriptions ( Word documents ) as an input . The application then embeds time stamps within the script to generate a closed captioning that synchronizes the text with speech . For more details , refer to section 3 . One problem with the current workflow is that it is extremely tedious and labor intensive . Therefore , we propose using a Universal Video Captioning ( UVC ) platform to accommodate the unprecedented growth of video lectures . The proposed software platform will provide an automatic approach to embed captions into accessible STEM related videos . This project will focus on promoting better opportunities for students with disabilities in STEM programs to understand their materials and may eventually open new avenues for research on student learning styles . We anticipate that by adding captions or transcripts , the multimodal presentation of materials will help students with disabilities in STEM programs increase mastery of the subject matter and increase student retention . Later , by measuring the effectiveness of adding captioning to educational videos , we will be able to assess their impact on studying , grades , and persistence for individuals with disabilities . This would foster our understanding of how students with disabilities benefit from online learning and how they interact with their teachers . The ( UVC ) platform , presented in this paper , is modular to provide interoperability , and will serve as a repository for uploading videos and scripts . All the building blocks of this project—literature , software , developed model , and instruments— will be made available to the public and other interested
569 researchers online using the Creative Commons Open source License ( CC BY NC 3.0—Creative Commons Attribution¬ NonCommercial 30 ) Our contribution to open source learning has the potential to provide a solution to thousands of individuals and universities who already have educational videos . a single , one size fits all solution but rather flexible approaches that can be customized and adjusted for individual needs ” [ 13 ] .
2 . Literature Review As higher education strives to serve students with disabilities , the STEM disciplines are no exception [ 4 ] . The Minority Science & Engineering Improvement Program [ 5 ] requires a special effort to recruit disabled students into these fields . Although often presented as an issue for distance education , the reality is that accessible learning is a barrier for students with disabilities in more traditional face to face classes as well . In fact , distance education solutions also hold some promise for helping these students . For example , lectures may be recorded and transcribed . This multimodal solution helps make hybrid classes and distance education available to all disabled students [ 6 ] . Actually , the recent emergence of distance education has caused educators to develop innovative ways to teach and deliver content in STEM programs in the online environment by using video capturing , reusable audio and video materials , and interactive simulated labs .
The Accessible Educational STEM Videos Project permits us to combine the advantages of captioned/transcribed multimedia with the recognized potency of audio and video to reinforce learning ( via the capability of re listening or re watching special segments on demand ) . Multimedia objects with captioning may also assist students whose native language is not English . In 2009 , 32.7 % of all students in the STEM disciplines were foreign nationals [ 7 ] . Use of subtitles is very common in foreign language and English as a Second Language classes . Stewart & Pertusa [ 8 ] noted that native English speakers studying Spanish , who viewed films with the audio and subtitles in the same language , learned more vocabulary , showed a gain in comprehension , and had higher levels of engagement and satisfaction with the material . Similarly , Hayati & Mohmedi [ 9 ] reported a significant improvement in international students learning English , noting that multimodal delivery “ [ enhances ] comprehension better than simply processing subtitle through silent reading ” ( p . 190 ) . This line of research suggests that the use of captioned multimedia may also improve learning outcomes among STEM students whose native language is not English .
In 2008 , higher education institutions enrolled 10.8 million students who identified as having a disability [ 10 ] . Figure 1 shows the relative distribution of students with disabilities . The project ’s significance will extend from the integration of multimodal delivery of audio and video the transformation of curricular activities in higher education to accommodate students with disabilities . Disabled students vary in their learning styles based on the type of accommodation they require . While students with sensory or learning disabilities may be helped by assistive technology , the most important issue is proper pedagogical design [ 11 ] .
As Thomas Klein [ 12 ] pointed out in a much cited article , “ [ C]omputers are not a panacea ; they cannot rescue a school from weak teachers , a weak curriculum , or the absence of sufficient funding . ” Universal design—making courses accessible for all students regardless of disabilities—goes beyond making courses usable and accessible . It involves “ creating instructional goals , methods , materials , and assessments that work for everyone—not in STEM courses to
Figure 1 the
Proper course design from the very beginning , with attention to multimodal environments , will help all students , not just those who have identified as having a disability[14 ] . As van Hoorebeek [ 2 ] explained : Careful analysis and staged development of elearning objects can lead to other benefits for the wider student populace , with other students benefiting from the new methods of delivery . . . . The increased use of alternative formats can significantly aid students that do not fulfill the disability criteria or have chosen . . . not to disclose their disability . . . . [ These students ] may also benefit from increased focus on accessibility of e learning provision , eg an unidentified dyslexic student may benefit from the audio and video materials from the lectures being available online or an animated equivalent of spoken text .
Marcyjanik [ 15 , 16 ] noted that disabled students face greater challenges as learning or sensing difficulties can be amplified by improperly designed multimedia . Non captioned videos , colored links , and animated images may all be difficult for disabled learners . Table 1 shows how selected disabilities interact with media , and how accommodations may be made . STEM students with disabilities are especially impacted by the challenges they face . Color , sound , and observation are all important in the study of scientific information .
For example , only one in four deaf students actually persist to graduation [ 10 ] . However , technology also provides some ways , in which some of these challenges can be overcome , particularly for students with sensory and learning difficulties . Nonetheless , technology also provides some ways these challenges , particularly for students with sensory and learning difficulties . But a one size fits all approach will not work . Because the necessary accommodations vary by type of disability , it can seem overwhelming to faculty members . For example , a blind student might be able to hear online videos but will miss the visual details . to overcome
570 T Table 1 . Access d disabilities ( Rob
Issues and Poss berts & Crittend Access Issues sible Modificati den , 2009 ) . ions for Select
Possible Modifica  Closed media caption  Transc audio f  Use of video c ations d or open ning . cripts for files f audio & cues .
 Provid write u  Save P de alternative tex xt up . PowerPoint as ri ich text .  Provid for oth inform  Order  High c colors foregro  Forma operati xt de descriptive te her visual ation . . texts in Braille n contrast between in background a and ound . t for mouseless ions .
 Provid e alterna ative text write u up .  Save
PowerP rich tex  Use de text fo inform  May ne inform format the stud control of instr  Forma mouse operati
Point as xt . escriptive r visual mation . eed mation in a in which dent can l the pace ruction . t for less ions .
 Unable to he audio materi  Background n may impede a to hear . ar als . noise ability
 May not be ab ble d to see or read small text or graphics .
 Materials may y not be accessible to assistive technology devices .
 Screen reader rs or magnificat tion t software mos often used .  May have limited use of hands and arms .
 May also have decreased eye hand coordination .
 May be unable to use mouse or make multiple keystrokes .  May require the use of screen reader .
Disability Type
Hearing or Hard of Hearing
Blind or Low Vision
Mobility Impairments
Learning Disabilities ating simultaneo ion may be good ch of describing earners . Blind st ptioning details , iption . Learning multaneous mul als . ous captioning f d for a deaf stud g the action an tudents can use while deaf stude g disabled stude ltimodal presen for the video th dent . Evidently , d the dialogue a screen reader ents will be able ents will also b ntation of infor hat describes a combined will benefit r to listen to e to read the benefit from rmation and roject Detai Current sys of 2013 , only 4 STEM disciplin ce Learning is ca rocess involves erform the tran s of download ng to the audio , a ils & Design n stem 43 % of the 17,0 nes ( Figure 2 ) , a apturing these vi five undergradu nscription proces ding the video and typing the sc
00 video lecture are captioned . Th ideos semi autom uate students ( tr ss ( Figure 3 ) . T to a desktop cript . es , produced he Office of matically . ranscribers ) The process p computer ,
Genera the acti approac both le the cap transcri the sim materia
3 . Pr 3.1 C In mid in the S Distanc The pr who pe consist listenin
Figure 2
The tra ( start , s saved a only be a “ Wave Pedal ” anscribers use a ward , move bac stop , move forw as a Microsoft W Word document ly . e accessed locall to control the ckward , etc ) T t in a shared dr audio speed The script is rive that can
 May not be a able to process information i if material mov es too quickly .  Material th presented wi too much background c distracting . can be
 Provid e inform alterna  May ne inform format the stud control instruc  Provid instruc mation in an ate format . eed mation in a in which dent can l the pace of tion . de written ctions .
Figure 3
571
In addit membe based o tion , the commu ers and transcrib on emails . unication process ers is limited an s between the fa nd tedious , being aculty g mostly
331 proced
The workflo dures
Figure 6 w consists of f the following g


  y members to i re going to be ad ting with faculty or transcripts ar es . asks to students
Communicat that captions video lecture Assigning ta transcribed ) . with faculty mem mbers and transcr Follow up w to t the process o generate sem Archiving reports .
( which videos nform them dded to their need to be ribers . mester based
The cur urrent workflow video le ectures at Weste the We eb—along with and tec chnologies such promise e a solution to addition n to enhancing t Therefo ore , we will pro can m manage resource replicab ble , and could students with di STEM 4 . Pr roposed Arc Video o Captionin 4.1 P Proposed In The pu urpose of our res that is s accessible ov infrastr ructure is a w WebDA AV technology Version ning ) to identify end con nsists of a Solr back en nd will consist o . Server . platform infras The p ement system , a manage user int terface , and a sy he unprecedente niversity . The em nsive computin Hadoop , Solr , , a large amounts arch for specific r to this challeng y matter . The her universities cannot handle th ern Kentucky Un h new data inten as WebDAV , H o handling the the ability to sea opose a solution es in a timely be used by oth isabilities . chitecture f for the Univ ng Platform re nfrastructur blish an automat earch is to estab ver the web to o everyone . Th form that uses web based platf Distributed Aut y ( Web based D ers , and content fy resources , use , Flex , and PHP r Search Engine of a MySQL Ser rver and an Apa ed growth of mergence of ng platforms and others— of data in resources . ge where we solution is in assisting versal ic workflow he proposed s the latest thoring and t . The front P , while the ache Tomcat structure consis a faculty/staff u ynchronized capt sts of an ad user interface , a tioning applet . dministrative a transcriber
In n 2007 , the of ru unning closed c S Stamped Java p ( W Word document s stamps in the s c caption.txt ) that s s software is availa 3.2 Workflo 3 S Students enter t H HH:MM:SS form 1 10 ) using a simp s size in the script
Figu ffice of Distanc captioning softw program . This p ts ) as an input . T cript to generat synchronizes the able in [ 3 ] . ow the starting and mat . The softwa le algorithm . Th over the length ure 4 ce Learning de ware ( Figure 4 program takes t The application te a closed cap e text with speec eveloped the fir 4 ) . It is a Tim text transcriptio then embeds tim tioning file ( e.g ch ( Figure 5 ) . Th rst me ns me g . , his d ending times are works with r he program divid of the audio . of the lecture rate of speech ( des the vocabula in ( 1ary
Figu ure 5
3.3 Curren 3 t Workflow T The current work kflow is extreme T Transcribers hav e to work in one c computer hardwa are equipment w gure 6 ) . wave pedals ( Fig w creasing in T Technically , presented in th v vocabulary size le ecture with emb edded captions c the ns w Limitation abor intensive . ely tedious and la specific desktop e location using s with appropriate s software and rate of speec he video . An ex can be seen in Fi increases th he h xample of a vide eo igure 2 .
572 Layer3 : Tra anscriber user in gin access , as w ailable for these uested audio or v iber receives a al interface . The tus of the resou oard will list all ng on . Each tra ce listing the ind he project has b dio and transcrib ss can be saved nto the system a how up . Once th and script will b e faculty/staff in ecome “ complet are device , this f keys on the keyb anscriber Use nterface ( Figure well as task man users . The trans video files that notice , this task e task will be re urce will becom the queued reso anscriber will dividual specific been assigned , t be on the platfo d as drafts . Whe again , all assign he work has bee be moved from nterface and the ted . ” Instead of functionality is p board . r Interface 9 ) will provide nagement . Four scribers will rec need transcripti k will be move moved from the me “ in process . ” ources that the tr see a different tasks . the transcriber w orm in real time en the individual ned and uncomp en completed , th the transcriber e status of this s f using a wave provided throug registration dashboards ceive notices ion . When a d to his/her e queue , and ” A separate ranscriber is t ( adaptive ) will listen to e . Scripts in l transcriber pleted work he captioned interface to specific task pedal as a gh the use of hanced Web bas te automatic sy rmore , transcript n text as addition sed captioning A ynchronized ca ts with content d nal content .
Applet allows tra aptions with tim description will anscribers to me stamps . be provided
413 The tra and log are ava of requ transcri persona the stat dashbo workin interfac Once th the aud progres logs in will sh video a the live will be hardwa arrow k
An enh generat Further in plain
4.2 S As a s based v that the cannot the syn negativ works w We the the pla improv audio f energy audio . calcula
Synchronize starting point , w version of our so e software has th be accessed in nchronization be vely when there with specific vid erefore propose u atform , which c ve accuracy , we p file before we a ed Captioni we plan on dev oftware . We not hree drawbacks real time over t etween the audi e are long paus deo formats . using a JavaScri can be accessed propose using a add the script . F
This measure c ated as follows ,
( cid:1831 ) ) can be used ( (cid:1860)(cid:1867)_(cid:1861)(cid:1865)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1831 ) ( cid:3533)(cid:4670)(cid:1876)(cid:4666)(cid:1865)(cid:4667)(cid:1875)(cid:4666 ) rt_time_energy shor ( cid:2998 ) ( cid:2998 ) ( cid:3533 ) ( cid:1876)(cid:4666)(cid:1865 )
( cid:3040)(cid:2880 ) ( cid:3040)(cid:2880)(cid:3015 ) dio signal , ( cid:1875)(cid:4666)(cid:1865)(cid:4667 ) ( cid:1876)(cid:4666)(cid:1865)(cid:4667 ) is the aud ( cid:1840 ) , and n is ( cid:1860)(cid:1867)_ _(cid:1861)(cid:1865)(cid:1857 ) ( cid:1831 ) drops
Where length can differentiate frame a its loca pauses . make a is conv interfac vocabu as a pause . Afte ation . Therefore . This process is any physical cha verted to equi ce ) will be sele ularies will be d the index of t below a certain er such a pause e , there will be s fully automate anges to the orig valent text in ected , long pau divided over the ing Applet veloping an enh ticed over the la : 1 ) it is not web the web ; 2 ) the o and the script es ; 3 ) the appli hanced webst five years b based and accuracy of t is affected ication only ipt Applet , embe d easily by trans segmentation pr For instance , the to detect long p e silence from sp edded inside scribers . To rocess to the e short time pauses in the peech and is
( cid:1865)(cid:4667)(cid:2870)(cid:4671 )
( cid:4666)1(cid:4667 ) ( cid:1865)(cid:4667)(cid:2870 ) ( cid:4666 ) ( cid:4667 ) is a rectangular ( cid:1857 ) ( cid:1831 ) . When the ( cid:1860)(cid:1867)_(cid:1861)(cid:1865)(cid:1857 ) r window of n threshold , we c has been detect no captioning ed since we are n ginal audio . The Dashboard 2 ses will be ide e length of the consider this ted , we save during long not going to speech that ( transcriber entified , text audio after
Figu : Administrat 4 411 Layer1 this layer ( Figu T The purpose of and download i p provide upload t s system , and troubleshooting ill be able to tr a administrator wi ng any raised cas o opening or closin ate transcriber p a and staff , evalua r eport to each tra anscriber , and ge ive module w th he administrati allow searching m mechanism to a v video , caption , or r script . problems . ure 7 e ment Interface tive Managem ntrol user acces ure 7 ) is to con ss , ntain the databa interfaces , main ase th In n addition , he by ription quality b rack the transcr lty dback from facul ses , request feed hly rovide a month performance , pr enerate statistica al reports . Finall ly , ne a search engin will provide a g for a specific c course , facult ty ,
4 412 Layer2 T The Faculty/Staf th he registration a a allow users to u v video or audio id dentifier will be it tem is already r esource will b d dashboard will l ( download capti p process ” or “ com
Figu : Faculty/Staf ff User Interface and login acces upload video or by using Web e associated with located on the be added to th list the current ioned video , do mpleted ” ) ) . ure 8 ff User Interf module ( Figure ss . The uploadin r audio material bDAV technolo h each resource . e web , only a he database . T status of each ownload script , face e 8 ) will consist ng dashboard w l or references ogy . A univers If the multimed reference to th The downloadin submitted reque , and status ( “ of will to sal dia hat ng est “ in
Figu ure 9
573 extracting long pauses , and vocabularies will be embedded in the correct time frame with no pauses . Because manual captioning is labor intensive , this solution will have a significant impact on the system performance .
5 . Conclusion and Future Work We presented a modular universal video capturing ( UVC ) infrastructure to serve as a repository for uploading videos and scripts . We plan to make the developed platform available to the public and other interested researchers online using the Creative Commons Open source License ( CC BY NC 3.0—Creative Commons Attribution¬ Non Commercial 30 ) The UVC platform will automatically embed captions inside educational videos using an enhanced and extended web based version of our current software , which will be developed with rigorous algorithms to accommodate a variety of video formats . STEM teachers can use the online UVC platform to upload audio or video teaching materials , and will receive a notification to download both the original multimedia with synchronized captions and the transcript . The fusion of video capture with captions and/or transcripts promises to immerse students with disabilities in STEM programs in multimodal presentations of information and learning materials that they can interpret or reinterpret in a better way , helping pave the way to a better and broader understanding . We anticipate the synchronized multimodal presentation of materials to help disabled learners increase their mastery of the subject and decrease their attrition . Our assumption is based on multiple studies that have found significant improvement in grade point average and reduced attrition among disabled learners who have used assistive technology . The proposed innovative platform can be extended by applying statistically valid instruments to help in understanding the learning process of the students , as well as to collect , analyze , and share data that can reveal patterns in the students' learning behaviors .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Kerr , S . Application of the Americans with Disabilities Act to the Termination of the Parental Rights of Individuals with Mental Disabilities , The . J . Contemp . Health L . & Pol'y , 161999 ) , 387 .
[ 2 ] van Hoorebeek , M . , Walker , S . and Dermo , J . Analysing the parameters of the duty of reasonable adjustment to facilitate access to e learning resources . Multicultural Education & Technology Journal , 3 , 3 2009 ) , 227 241 .
[ 3 ] Zhuhadar , L . Open Source Closed captioning Software :
Time Stamped Java program : http://adawkupbworkscom/w/page/1367266/FrontPage2007 2013 )
[ 4 ] Jerome , M . K . , Neuber , K . , Stegall , B . , Emenova , A . and
Behrmann , M . Technology for integration of students with disabilities in higher education . The Engineering Handbook of Smart Technology for Aging , Disability , and Independence2008 ) , 101 116 .
[ 5 ] August , D . and Hakuta , K . Improving schooling for language minority children : A research agenda . National Academies Press , 2000 .
[ 6 ] Keengwe , J . and Kidd , T . T . Towards best practices in online learning and teaching in higher education . MERLOT Journal of Online Learning and Teaching , 6 , 2 2010 ) , 533 541 .
[ 7 ] Wasem , R . E . Immigration of foreign nationals with Science , Technology , Engineering , and Mathematics ( STEM ) degrees . Congressional Research Service , Library of Congress , City , 2012 .
[ 8 ] Stewart , M . A . and Pertusa , I . Gains to Language Learners from Viewing Target Language ClosedCaptioned Films . Foreign language annals , 37 , 3 2004 ) , 438 442 .
[ 9 ] Hayati , A . and Mohmedi , F . The effect of films with and without subtitles on listening comprehension of EFL learners . British Journal of Educational Technology , 42 , 1 2011 ) , 181 192 .
[ 10 ] Marschark , M . , Pelz , J . B . , Convertino , C . , Sapere , P . , Arndt ,
M . E . and Seewagen , R . Classroom interpreting and visual information processing in mainstream education for deaf students : Live or Memorex® ? American Educational Research Journal , 42 , 4 2005 ) , 727 761 .
[ 11 ] Moallem , M . Accommodating Individual Differences in the Design of Online Learning Environments : A Comparative Study . Journal of Research on Technology in Education , 40 , 2 2007 ) .
[ 12 ] Klein , T . Electronic Revolution at the Educational
Crossroads : Foot Dragging on Campus . College Teaching , 43 , 4 1995 ) , 151 155 .
[ 13 ] CAST http://castorg/udl/indexhtml City , 2012 . [ 14 ] Moreno , R . and Mayer , R . Interactive multimodal learning environments . Educational Psychology Review , 19 , 3 2007 ) , 309 326 .
[ 15 ] Marcyjanik , D . An Analysis of Web Accessibility in Online
Nursing Education for Persons with Disability , 2013 . [ 16 ] Marcyjanik , D . and Zorn , C . R . Accessibility in Online Nursing Education for Persons With Disability . Nurse educator , 36 , 6 2011 ) , 241 245 .
574
