Exceptional Texts on the Multilingual Web Francesca Chessa
Gavin Brelstaff
CRS4
Loc . Piscina Manna , Ed . 1 09010 Pula ( CA ) Sardinia
Italy gjb @ crs4.it
ABSTRACT Great writers help keep a language efficient for discourse of all kinds . In doing so they produce exceptional texts which may defy Statistical Machine Translation by employing uncommon idiom . Such “ turns of phrase ” can enter into a Nation ’s collective memory and form the basis from which compassion and conviction are conveyed during important national discourse . Communities that unite across language barriers have no such robust basis for discourse . Here we describe a Multilingual Web prototype application that promotes appreciation of exceptional texts by non native readers . The application allows dual column original/translation texts ( in Open Office format ) to be imported into the translator ’s browser , to be manually aligned for semantic correspondence , to be aligned with an audio reading , and then saved as HTML5 for subsequent presentation to non native readers . We hope to provide a new way of experiencing exceptional texts ( poetry , here ) that transmits their significance without incurring extraneous distraction . We motivate , outline and illustrate our application in action .
Categories and Subject Descriptors [ Group and Organization Interfaces ] : Web based H53 Impacts ] : Computerinteraction . K.4,3 supported collaborative work . J.5 [ Arts and Humanities ] : Language translation , Linguistics , Literature . I.7,2 [ Document Preparation ] : Hypertext/hypermedia , .
[ Organizational
Keywords Multilingual Web ; ODT , HTML5 Audio ; Parallel texts ; Text alignment ; Browser based application ; Javascript ; Literary culture ; Poetry
1 . MOTIVATION When Tim Berners Lee urged us to think about A Magna Carta for the Web , in his 2014 TED Talk , he said he wants a web that is “ a really good basis for democracy ” [ 1 ] . If such a basis is to emerge a really profound discourse is needed between the nascent citizens of the web . Any discourse between disparate peoples is difficult , even when equality of rights is an explicit objective [ 2 ] .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082743005
DUMAS
University of Sassari
Via Roma 151 , 07100 ( SS )
Italy fch @ uniss.it
Witness how hard it is to make political progress in the amicable context of the expanded European community . The EC ’s website welcomes its citizens in 24 different languages and Members of the European Parliament are free to speak in any of those languages [ 3 ] . Yet not one politician is capable of addressing the greater European public with anything like compassion or conviction – the language barrier simply prevents most Europeans from receiving the direct impact of any compelling message . This is not a matter to be naively solved by statistical machine translation ( SMT ) which is designed to deliver the most prevailing/common place version of any candidate phrase [ 4 ] : Exceptional texts are what is required in order to achieve effective impact for important arguments – and our national leaders do adopt , or even coin , an uncommon idiom . This linguistic capacity derives from , and depends on , the literary context in which they are immersed . Idiom , here is not a mere poetical artifice attached to information being transmitted : When idiom is good , it constitutes an efficient aide mémoire for a whole people . For Aristotle , good poetry could instil a sense of civic morality . Great writers create exceptional texts that extend the idiom for their , and future , generations . As Ezra Pound once wrote : a can’t instruct
“ Good writers are those who keep the language efficient . If a nation ’s literature declines , the nation atrophies and decays . Your legislator can’t legislate for the public good , your commander can’t command , your populace ( if you be its ‘representatives’ , save by language . … The statesman cannot govern , the scientist cannot participate his discoveries , men cannot agree on wise action without language , and all their deeds and conditions are affected by the defects or virtues of idiom . ” [ 5 ] democratic country ) the
If we are going to provide a basis for democracy capable of evolving beyond serious consideration needs to be given to how the Multilingual Web might convey the “ virtues of idiom ” between disparate peoples – ie those who do not share a common first language – since as Pound put it [ 5 ] : confines of nation states
“ The sum of human wisdom is not contained in any one language , and no single language is capable of expressing all forms and degrees of human comprehension . ”
So a wiser discourse , and a wiser community , might be one involving citizens fortified by the idiom of great writers in all its languages – made equally accessible . Here we explore how such accessibility might be fostered via a multilingual community on the web . Exceptional texts merit exceptional measures . Many literary texts are already freely available to readers around the globe – as a result of the growth of the web , eg [ 6 ] . Yet , understandably , true access gets inhibited by two big show
847 for many years ,
stoppers : ( 1 ) the language barrier that prevents most readers ever getting started ; and ( 2 ) a manifest public disengagement with literary texts , even when well translated . 1.1 The Language Barrier Impact making translations generally require slow human , rather than rapid machine , translation . Time is needed by translators to deliberate on , and compromise between , the various semantic , metrical and melodic aspects . SMT can help produce a rough first draft , but collaboration with native language speakers is a better starting point . The final translation should involve first language speakers of the receiving language . This is a classical “ no centre , all edge ” scenario [ 7 ] , in which there is no conceivable central competence – all relevant literary/linguistic competence resides at the edges , between each pair of languages ; Indeed , translators and authors have enthusiastically worked at these “ edges ” simply by sending wordprocessor documents to each other via email – a robust practice not to lightly be disrupted . To use the web application we describe below they do , however , need to be able to layout the original and completed translation side by side on the page in dual columns and save to Open Document format ( ODT ) [ 8 ] . The web application does not rely on a central server : being entirely browser based – but it can also be run as service when one wants to compile an archive of the documents which may then be presented to a world of readers – see below . 1.2 Public disengagement In 1986 , WH Auden wrote [ 9 ] that the public still found poetry “ indigestible ” while it had “ learned how to consume even the greatest fiction as if it were a can of soup ” . In an era of the filter bubble , TL;DR and so many audio/visual attractions on the web , public disengagement has further widened . Auden was able to console himself that “ one must either enter into poetry by a personal encounter or else leave it alone ” , we aim here to recruit web technology to draw the public into this enabling personal encounter – without resorting to the televisual tendency of treating a poet ’s words as the voice over of a attention competing video stream . We hope our approach is more engaging than the a plain , auto cue style presentations – eg [ 10 ] .
2 . PROJECT OVERVIEW We aim to provide a new reading experience – which in its most striking variety allows you to listen to a poem being read in its original language while you are shown the parts of the text that are semantically equivalent to what is currently being spoken . Our aim is to achieve this entirely within the modern web browser – via a dedicated web application that provides for both production and presentation . An important part of the production is the alignment of the sentences , phrases and words of the texts – so that semantic equivalence becomes available . 2.1 Production process Figure 1 gives an overview of production processes in three labeled stages :
A .
The Translator selects , or receives , the original language text and , in their own good time , they produce a translation that they are satisfied with .
B . When the translation is complete they can start up a word processor and enter in both texts : laying out the page into two columns – the original text in the left column and
C . the translation in the right . At this point they can apply italic , bold or underline styling to words in the text . They can also chose whether the text should be aligned centrally or not . Next , they select each column in turn and assign to it the appropriate spell checking language . The example in the figure has the right column assigned to English and the left to Sardinian ( where some words are found not in the LibreOffice dictionary ) . Finally they save the file in ODT format – which is also an option in MS Word . import the ODT document and check
The Translator then starts our Web Application in order to first its appearance before continuing . Any variations in font size or family will have been discarded while the columns and the aforementioned rich text styling should have been retained . The language code symbols should appear at top left of each column ( SR and EN in our example ) . Now the two parallel texts may be aligned . The first part is semi automatic : sentences and phrases are aligned following a set of rules that either depend on punctuation marks ( known as Lexical context ) , or by stanza and line breaks ( known as Lineal context ) . The Translator selects between Lexical and Lineal using the drop down menu . Next , alignment is carried out manually at the word level . Here one or more words ( not necessarily contiguous ) in one column will map on to one or more word in the other column . The translator clicks on these words in turn – each one becoming shown to be selected via a dotted boundary – and then the translator applies a Control Click to fix ( or undo ) the alignment . They are also able to attribute a color to each such alignment : green when they consider the equivalence is literal ; yellow when it is paraphrastic ; and red when it is approximate in any other way . The example in the figure shows that the word “ arriving ” is a paraphrase of “ sa rezida’e ” . As the Translator moves the cursor over any word on the page that has already been aligned , it becomes highlighted again in synchrony with each other words involved in its alignment . To see all the existing alignments at once the Translator can toggle on the “ Notes ” button:– it does two things ( 1 ) adds a footnote like superscript to each aligned word whereby aligned words share the same superscript , ( 2 ) draws a box around the word in the color it was assigned during alignment . The effect is like that seen in Figure 2 . Once the Translator is satisfied that all alignments have been properly made they press the “ Save ” button this saves the aligned document in a HTML5 format – either to disk or , when the Web Application is served from the web , to a location on its server . In either case it can be retrieved for further alignment sessions , if and when desired .
Figure 2 shows how the HTML5 output can be rendered . Since it is self contained ( no Javascript , only inline CSS , no external links ) it is very portable . It can be printed to paper , sent by email or , as in our example , presented in a standalone iframe . Here the colored boxes and superscript labels are evident . Note also , an inline CSS trick ( :hover::after ) allows a simple tool tip type alignment cue as the cursor passes over the word ( “ omine ” in our example ) We consider HTML5 a much more versatile archive format compared to the subset of the TEI schema we had previously adopted [ 13 ]
848 D .
849
850
2.2 Some technological details In order to pass from stage B to C in Figure 1 it is necessary to script the browser so that it can read and render ODT . ODT is a zipped archive containing the document content in XML . Our Web Application uses Gildas Lormeau ’s zip.js JavaScript library [ 12 ] to unzip the ODT and then applies the web browser ’s XSL transform to simultaneously render the document structure as a hierarchy of HTML5 elements and decorate it using CSS assigned to class attributes of those elements . In particular , each single word is represented by a span element and may have an attribute “ sup ” that indicates its subscript value ; attribute “ n ” that codes the ordinal number of the elements it is joined to by an equivalence alignment . ; an attribute “ class ” that indicates the type of equivalence as “ literal ” , “ parap’ or “ approx ” . In the case of subsequent audio alignment an addition attribute is given that specifies the time the word starts to be spoken – eg start= ” 2.4s ” . The jQuery JavaScript library [ 13 ] greatly simplifies the scripting of the user interaction required for the alignment task . We have also developed a minimalistic node.js webserver to provide a REST interface for accessing and archiving the ODT and HTML5 documents .
( MP3/Ogg format ) . the browser
2.3 Audio alignment Once semantic alignment is complete it is possible to walk through the page automatically – starting at the top of one of the columns and stepping sequentially word by word through the whole text . ( by pressings the W1 or W2 button seen in Figure 1B ) As each word becomes highlighted so do the corresponding words in the other column . This provides a novel reading experience that cannot be reproduced here on paper! It walks through the words at a constant speed – which is rather artificial . It would be more satisfactory to proceed at a real reading pace : which motivates the experimental phase of our project – the alignment of our written text to readings recorded as digital audio tracks – ie text audio synchronization at a word by word level , [ 14 ] . By scripting HTML5 Audio it is now possible to read and analyze audio data in Ideally Voice to text technology , such as Siri or Google Now , would allow us to obtain the time each word starts in the audio track . But such information is not readily available to all comers on the web . Instead we are experimenting with a simplistic approach : We extract only the duration of the words and the gaps between them . Then we look for corresponding cues in the rendered text . For languages like Chinese this will not work , but in many languages . length of word or its number of vowels correlates somewhat with its spoken duration . Furthermore , gaps tend to be longest after full stops , stanza breaks ; while commas and line breaks can also produce notable gaps . We have implemented a heuristic algorithm for matching audio and written text . Thus we can tentatively assign start times to word elements in our HTML5 documents . The example in Figure 3 shows the symbol [ ▶ ] where start times have been satisfactorily computed . Clicking on that symbol plays the audio starting at that word . We need to refine our algorithm to estimate beginnings of words in the more difficult condition when audio remains at relatively high level even between words . If this proves possible we will be closer to our final goal as stated at the beginning of Section 2 .
3 . CONCLUSION The Web Application described here , although still work inprogress , illustrates that developments in browser technology can be of great practical application in the Multilingual Web field . Our goal remains to build a compelling way to experience and appreciate exceptional texts .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work is kindly supported by the Fondazione Banco di Sardegna ( Prot . U4062013/AI330MGB ) Thanks also go to Gianluigi Zanetti of CRS4 & Prof Nicola Tanda of Pen Sardegna .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Berners Lee , T . 2014 . , A Magna Carta for the Web , TED
Talk , Aug 2014 http://wwwtedcom/talks/tim_berners_lee_a_magna_carta_f or_the_web/transcript .
[ 2 ] Kennedy , H . 2015 . A Modern Magna Carta , BBC Radio 4 , broadcast 2 2 2015 http://wwwbbccouk/programmes/b050zy47
[ 3 ] EU , 2014 . European Parliament website . as available from 25 05 2014 . http://doiacmorg/101145/9041790738 and http://wwweuroparleuropaeu/aboutparliament/en/007e6977 0f/Multilingualism.html
[ 4 ] Koehn , P . , 2013 . Open Problems in Machine Translation
University of Edinburgh , 25 3 2013 http://wwwyoutubecom/watch?v=6UVgFjJeFGY
[ 5 ] Pound , E . 1934 . ABC of Reading . George Routledge
Limited , London , UK .
[ 6 ] Poetry Foundation , 61 West Superior Street , Chicago , IL
60654 USA , http://wwwpoetryfoundationorg
[ 7 ] Mayfield , R . 2005 . Social Oriented Architecture , 2 6 2005 , http://rosstypepadcom/blog/2005/06/socialoriented_html
[ 8 ] OASIS , A . Z . 2006 . Open Document Format , Standard
ISO/IEC 26300:2006/Amd 1:2012 http://wwwopendocumentformatorg and http://wwwlibreofficeorg
[ 9 ] Auden , WH 1986 . “ A Short Defense of Poetry ” , New York
Review Of Books,– 30 1 1986
[ 10 ] John Adams , 2015 . Read Along Classics Channel on
YouTube , since 2012 http://wwwyoutubecom/user/ReadAlongClassics
[ 11 ] Chessa , F . , Brelstaff , G . 2011 . Going beyond Google
Translate ? in Facing Complexity CHItaly 2011 , Volume 9 , page 108 113 – 2011
[ 12 ] Lormeau , G . 2014 . Zip.js A JavaScript library to zip and unzip files . http://gildas lormeaugithubio/zipjs
[ 13 ] Resig , J . 2006,jQuery : The Write Less , Do More , JavaScript
Library . http://jquery.com/
[ 14 ] Brelstaff , G . Chessa , F . Multilingual Mark Up of Text Audio Synchronization at a Word by Word Level W3C Workshop Making the Multilingual Web Work 12 3 2013 , Rome , Italy http://wwwmultilingualwebeu/documents/romeworkshop/rome program
851
