Towards Serving “ Delicious ” Information within Its
Freshness Date
Hao Han
Kanagawa University , Japan han@computer.org
Junxia Guo
Beijing University of Chemical
Technology , China gjxia@mailbucteducn
Takashi Nakayama
Kanagawa University , Japan nakayama@info.kanagawa uacjp
Keizo Oyama
National Institute of
Informatics and SOKENDAI ( The Graduate University for Advanced Studies ) , Japan oyama@niiacjp
ABSTRACT Like freshness date of food , Web information also has its “ shelf life ” . In this paper , we exploratively study the reflection of shelf life of information in browsing behaviors . Our analysis shows that the satisfaction of browsing behavior is modified if the shelf life of information could be considered by search engines .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Storage and Retrieval—Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Performance
Keywords Browsing Behavior ; Information Retrieval ; Search Engine ; Shelf Life
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Web information has various properties . Like freshness date of food , information keeps “ deliciousness ” within its “ shelf life ” , which is the recommended maximum time for use or consumption . However , the most used search engines , such as Google and Bing , are mainly based on semantic similarity ( between query keywords and target documents ) and link analysis algorithms ( eg , PageRank ) . They cannot avoid the problem like “ serving unsavory/out of date information past shelf life ” since shelf life of information is not seriously considered . For example , search results responded to query “ Kyoto sightseeing ” may be referred even the information reflects the situation of 10 years ago . Meanwhile , to query “ USB memory price ” , the information of the last year is mostly out of date .
In this paper , we present an on going analysis of the browsing behaviors by using browsing log , accessed Web content and manually assessed query satisfaction as data sets . Extensive experiments show that time related features of information could act as an effective role in the modification of search engines .
2 . QUERY SATISFACTION
We exploratively analyze the diverse features affecting the query satisfaction in the browsing behaviors of client users , and present the effectiveness of time related features .
2.1 Data Set
Browsing log data and Yahoo! Chiebukuro data are used as our data set . Browsing log data is a log of webpage access collected for research and investigation . It contains 81,168,263 records of webpage access made by 24,498 panel users of different ages and genders . Since the browsing logs of different users are relatively independent , we separate them into independent query processes/sessions according to the session characteristics [ 2 ] . We selected Yahoo! Chiebukuro ( Japanese Yahoo! Answers ) webpages as the experimental data because they are well structured and richly contain time related information . After the data preprocessing , there were 120,182 query processes related to Yahoo! Chiebukuro .
2.2 Features of Satisfaction Level
The assessment of query satisfaction level could be considered a type of classification task and machine learning techniques are employed . For selecting the most effective features used in the assessment , we use the non text features , text query features , and time related features extracted from webpages and browsing log data .
According to our manual analysis and the existing researches , non text features of a Chiebukuro webpage are selected to represent the basic attributes like “ number of words in the question ’s text ” , “ number of words in the best answer ’s text ” , “ average number of words in the answers to a question ” , and “ number of webpage viewers ” .
Text query correlative features are selected based on the analysis of the abovementioned separated query processes . They are “ relevance between query keywords and the text of the question and best answer ” , “ relevance between query keywords and the text of question ” , “ relevance between query keywords and the title of question ” , and “ length of query keywords excluding postpositional particles ” . These relevance values are calculated by TF IDF based on the morphological analysis of the concerned words .
41 Similarly , we select time related features from different views like “ average dwell time of browsing on webpage ” and “ duration from information generation ( date when the question was resolved ) to webpage browsing ” .
2.3 Experiment and Analysis
Three assessors were requested to independently label 1,500 records of training data with labeled satisfaction scores ( 1 : satisfaction , 1 : dissatisfaction , and 0 : not sure ) . A moderate agreement ( Fleiss’ Kappa = 0.4901 ) is reached after removing the records labeled “ not sure ” , and 1,486 valid records are left for further analysis and experiments . If different scores were labeled for one record , the major scores were selected as the final score .
Every learning algorithm tends to suit some problem types better than others . Thus , our experiments utilize Weka2 [ 3 ] , among which , C4.5 , SVM , Naive Bayes , Logistic , and AdaBoost are employed . Here , 6 fold cross validation is adopted and we use different sets of features to observe the influence and effectiveness of the features .
Table 1 shows the results without the time related features , and Table 2 shows the results with the time related features . These results clearly explain the importance of the time related features , especially in the C4.5 and AdaBoost models .
Table 1 : Results Without Time related Features
Classifier
Naive Bayes
Logistic
SVM
AdaBoost
C4.5
Precision Recall F Measure ROC Area
0.6 0.556 0.577 0.552 0.555
0.623 0.555 0.598
0.6
0.578
0.606 0.555 0.565 0.57 0.565
0.687 0.635 0.617 0.652 0.617
Table 2 : Results With Time related Features
Classifier
Naive Bayes
Logistic
SVM
AdaBoost
C4.5
Precision Recall F Measure ROC Area
0.702 0.697 0.729 0.784 0.776
0.743 0.685 0.745 0.845 0.835
0.721 0.691 0.727 0.811 0.803
0.849 0.782 0.764 0.834 0.858
3 . SHELF LIFE
The assessors were also requested to label “ shelf life ” ( within shelf life or out of date ) since some of the “ dissatisfaction ” instances are caused by out of date information at the time of the query . Here , a record is identified as available information within its shelf life if two and more of the three assessors label it as available and satisfactory one .
Statistics of shelf life are made for out of date records in the categories “ Politics and International Affairs ” , “ Sports and Outdoors ” , “ Children and Schools ” and “ Business and Economics ” , which are more time sensitive and bring more dissatisfaction caused by shelf life in query process . For each out of date record , the interval months are calculated from information generation ( production date ) to webpage browsing ( consumption date ) , and the statistical result is given as shown in Figure 1 , which shows that the shelf lives of out of date information are mostly distributed within a range between 1 3 years .
Table 3 gives an analysis result of the frequencies of nouns and verbs ( word stems ) characteristically occurring in outof date information but seldom occurring in other information of the same category . Most of them are time sensitive
Figure 1 : Shelf Life like “ discount , popularity , annual rate ” , or are related to sudden incidents like “ mafia ( violent crime ) ” , or reflect periodic/specified events like “ ( politics ) voting , ( specified ) angling ( event ) , ( entrance ) examination ( questions ) ” , which could be used for trend analysis [ 1 ] .
Table 3 : Characteristic Words of Out of date Information
Category
Politics and International Affairs
Sports and Outdoors Children and Schools
Business and Economics
Characteristic Words voting , mafia discount , angling examination , popularity exchange , annual rate
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper , we have proved that query satisfaction is visibly affected by time related features , and presented the statistics of shelf life and characteristic words of out of date information .
As future work , we will conduct further analysis , such as calculating the value of “ shelf life ” of Web information , for further time oriented optimization in search engines .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was funded by the National Institute of Informatics and Kanagawa University under joint research grants .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Chelaru , I . S . Altingovde , S . Siersdorfer , and W . Nejdl . Analyzing , detecting , and exploiting sentiment in Web queries . ACM Transactions on the Web , 8(1 ) , 2013 .
[ 2 ] J . Guo , C . Gao , N . Xu , G . Lu , and H . Han . Analyzing query trails and satisfaction based on browsing behaviors . In The Proceedings of the 10th Web Information System and Application Conference , pages 107–112 , 2013 .
[ 3 ] Weka2 . http://wwwcswaikatoacnz/ml/weka/
42
