Understanding Smart City Business Models : A Comparison
Leonidas G . Anthopoulos
Associate Professor , Business School
Technological Education Institute ( TEI ) of Thessaly ,
Greece
41110 Larissa , Greece
+30 2410684570 lanthopo@teilar.gr
ABSTRACT Smart cities have attracted the international scientific and business attention and a niche market is being evolved , which engages almost all the business sectors . In their attempt to empower and promote urban competitive advantages , local governments have approached the smart city context and they target habitants , visitors and investments . However , engaging the smart city context is not free of charge and corresponding investments are extensive and of high risk without the appropriate management . Moreover , investing in the smart city domain does not secure corresponding mission success and both governments and vendors require more effective instruments . This paper performs an investigation on the smart city business models and is a work in progress . Modeling can illustrate where corresponding profit comes from and how it flows , while a significant business model portfolio is eligible for smart city stakeholders . Categories and Subject Descriptors K11 [ Markets ] : Computing Milieux the computer industry . K434 [ Reengineering ] : Computing Milieux – Computers and Society Organizational Impacts
Keywords Smart city ; Business Model ; e government ; value proposal
1 . INTRODUCTION The smart city domain emerges rapidly and engages almost all the business sectors . During Ovum ’s 2014 smart city event ( http://smarttofuture.com ) , participants recognized that smart city niche market is estimated to reach the amount of $3 trillion by 2025 and exceed the size of all traditional business sectors . This estimation was grounded earlier by Simon Giles [ 11 ] from Accenture too , who located the source of this money on embedded operational efficiency , as well as on new entrepreneurship . Moreover , [ 5 ] predicts that the amount of €38.9 billion will be spent on smart cities in 2016 alone . However , today , the smart city market race is led by public investments [ 2 ; 3 ] , which show that enterprises are still quite reluctant to invest on the smart city sector and they seek to secure their entrance with standardization and business models .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082743908
Panos Fitsilis
Professor , Business School
Technological Education Institute ( TEI ) of Thessaly ,
Greece
41110 Larissa , Greece
+30 2410684588 fitsilis@teilar.gr
This paper addresses the above last observation and tries to answer the following research question : “ what smart city business models exist and are followed by major smart city cases ? ” This research question is not only important to be answered due to the above observation , but due to the continuous transformation of smart city approaches [ 2 ] . A business model analyzes the sources and processes that contribute to organization ’s value . Although smart cities concern innovative solutions within the urban space and corresponding innovation business models are expected to appear or have already appeared , this research question is extremely important to be answered since it aims to investigate how traditional business models have been applied in smart cities or what innovation business models have been developed . In this context , the hypothesis of this paper suggests : types of
Hypothesis 1 . Smart Cities follow various business models , which can be grouped in existing classes . In an attempt to answer the above question and to justify this hypothesis , this paper follows two research methods : literature review and findings from case studies . First , literature findings are explored regarding business modeling , their classification and patterns . Then existing smart city business models are demonstrated according to literature findings [ 1 ; 14 ] and the outcomes of interviews from case studies . All the identified smart city business models are assigned to patterns presented by [ 12 ] . The remainder of this paper is organized as follows : in the background section 2 , a brief theoretical analysis of business models and smart city business models is performed . Then , in section 3 , results from literature findings and case studies are presented and this paper ’s research questions is discussed according to the extracted outcomes . Finally , in section 4 some conclusions and some future thoughts are given .
2 . BACKGROUND Various scholars [ 3 ; 6 ; 9 ] define smart city with means of integrating Information and Communications Technologies ( ICT ) with the urban space and provide the city with solutions that enhance local intelligence and more specifically city ’s dimensions ( people , economy , governance , mobility , living and environment ) . To this end , many vendors ( [1 ; 5 ] etc . ) lead the development of corresponding solutions , which enhance sustainability , efficiency , safety and other urban challenges . However , despite this documented vendors’ interest on smart city , most corresponding investments are performed with public initiatives . Existing works [ 2 ; 3 ] demonstrated that most of the examined smart cities ( 34 and 100 accordingly ) concern public projects , where vendors were paid with public money to develop and install their solutions . Only two cases ( New Songdo and
529 interests as the barriers
Malaga ) are private investments , while about 10 concern PPPs , where project risk is shared among both public and private organizations . These findings question this reluctance of the private sector to place direct investments on smart cities . CISCO [ 8 ] identified city complexities ( multiple parties , stakeholders , and processes ) and different in implementing smart city solutions . Another potential reason for this reluctance is described by [ 7 ] , who claimed that the value of the smart city market is still under development and corresponding business models too . 2.1 Business Modeling Business model concerns quite a recent concept and although it is broadly discussed , a common definition is missing [ 11 ] . A business model describes the rationale of how an organization creates , delivers , and captures value ( economic , social , cultural , or other forms of value ) [ 13 ] . One of the most widely accepted definitions come from [ 15 ] , according which a business model concerns “ an architecture of the products , services and information flows [ … ] ” . This definition recognizes actors , roles , potential business value and the source of revenue . A business model framework or “ canvas ” [ 14 ] contains four components and places in the center the value proposition [ 4 ] .
Although there could be various value propositions , business models can be classified in five patterns according to [ 12 ] : Unbundling business models , which can be utilized by firms that perform all the three fundamentally different types of businesses : customer relationship ; product innovation ; and infrastructure businesses ( ie , private banking ) .
The long tail business model according which a firm tries to sell less for more . This model can be addressed by the offering of a large range of niche products , each of which sells relatively infrequently ( ie , LEGO ) .
Multi sided platforms , which bring together two or more distinct but interdependent groups of customers ( ie , game console production vendors ) .
Free business model continuously benefit at least one substantial customer segment from a free of charge offer ( ie , cell phone operators ) .
2.2 The Smart City Context Before proceeding to the identification of existing smart city business models , it is important for the smart city components to be mentioned . Almost all well managed and large scale smart cities follow the multi tier architecture [ 3 ] in their attempt to integrate the physical with the ICT environment . However , another interesting approach appears to be adopted by smart cities and concerns the Internet of Things ( IoT ) , meaning that many smart cities could utilize data from sensors , buildings and usersas sensors with their applications , without necessarily install networks from scratch or other large scale infrastructure . Potential business models could refer to any or all the smart city components . For instance , smart city vendors develop and deploy facilities ; operators earn from facility utilization or service provision ; service providers earn from their service delivery etc . To this end , various contemporary business models can be utilized in a smart city .
3 . DOMAIN STUDY : EXISTING SMART CITY BUSINESS MODELS Smart city stakeholders are too many and exceed city stakeholders : local and central governments ; utility providers ; ICT companies ; Non Governmental Organizations ( NGOs ) ; international organizations ; chambers and industry organizations ; academia ; companies ; and citizens . Thus , each stakeholder ( or in groups ) could develop value proposals for local customers . As such , each smart city service or product can be concerned that it follows or should follow a contemporary or innovative business model .
3.1 Literature Findings Janssen and Kuk [ 10 ] considered public sector ’s value proposals to and they identified corresponding web based business models . Their rationale concerned the interrelation of government strategy with smart city information architecture as a means to meet their customers’ expectations . Web based business models match the previously mentioned patterns . These outcomes demonstrate that open pattern “ conquer ” web based models , while unbundling instances exist too . Contemporary business models exist even in web based cases and the city operates as a direct content and service provider to its habitants and enterprises . On the other hand , [ 2 ; 3 ] reported various smart city business models . Although business models are not supposed to be observed in public organization cases ( ie , Masdar , Gdansk etc. ) , even in these forms smart city is utilized by the Municipality to attract visitors , habitants and investments . Moreover , some of the investigated cases concern novel business models , such as the South Korean “ city in a box ” , which is replicated in other Asian cases ; the Dubai/Malta/Kochi Smart City captures value from the private investments of the located companies at the business parks ; and Taipei eco city concerns a sustainable growth business model . These studies assigned two contemporary business model classes : 1 . E Service business model [ 14 ] ( Table 1 ) . 2 . Openness of the Commercial Enterprise and ICT network representatives from ownership [ 1 ] business model ( Table 2 ) .
In ( Table 1 ) each service group was considered to be offered by an individual provider ( or groups of stakeholders ) . The assignment of a pattern in ( Table 2 ) considered the network to be the key resource for value proposition . To this end , network owner delivers value to individuals and enterprises . An important outcome of this assignment process concerns the appointment of business model patterns to cases where network relative business models were not applicable . Table 2 values show that the unbundling pattern appears most in the examined cases and more specifically in all cases where keyresources exist and utilized by the smart city : broadband , smart , digital , ubiquitous and eco cities . This is a reasonable outcome , since all these city forms require different types of facilities for their service provision ( networks , grids , sensors , etc ) Even in case that these facilities are rent for service provision , the unbundling pattern still exists . Things change when the IoT is utilized as the key resource , which results to the corresponding
530 id
1 . 2 .
3 . 4 .
5 .
6 .
7 . e Commerce Business
Model(s ) 1 . Social Networks 1 . Membership 2 . Social Networks 3 . Affiliate marketing 1 . Value chain integration 1 . Affiliate marketing 2 . Value chain integration 3 . Membership 1 . Value chain integration 2 . Social networks 3 . Direct online marketing 4 . Digital malls 5 . Information agents 6 . Affiliate marketing 7 . Tendering 8 . Reverse auctioning 9 . Group purchasing 10 . Customization 1 . Value chain integration
1 . Customization 2 . Social networks
Table 1 . E Service business models
Cases
Business model pattern
America On Line ( AOL ) , Kyoto ( Japan ) , Bristol ( UK ) Copenhagen Base , Craigmillar Community Information Service ( Scotland )
Free Open
Seoul , Beijing , Helsinki , Geneva MAN ( Switzerland ) , Antwerp ( Belgium ) Taipei ( Taiwan ) , Tianjin ( China ) , Barcelona , Brisbane ( Australia ) , Malta , Dubai
Unbundling Unbundling
Hull ( UK ) , Cape Town ( South Africa ) Trikala ( Greece ) Tampere ( Finland ) Knowledge Based Cities ( Portugal ) Austin ( USA ) Blacksburg Electronic Village ( USA )
Unbundling
New Sondgo ( S . Korea ) , Dongtan ( S . Korea ) , Osaka ( Japan ) , Manhattan Harbour , Kentucky ( U . SA ) , Masdar ( United Arab Emirates ) Helsinki Arabianranta ( Finland ) Dongtan ( S . Korea ) , Tianjin ( China ) , Austin ( USA ) , Amsterdam , Copenhagen , Taipei ( Taiwan )
Unbundling
Unbundling
IoT business models . However , cities in the above examined cases have not capitalized the IoT yet , which leaves an open space for start ups and other vendors to develop their customers’ value . 3.2 Case Studies Except from the above literature findings , some case studies were explored with trips and interviews with the corresponding supervisors ( Table 3 ) . Case studies were selected according their appearance in literature and international coverage , while this study is still in progress . The outcomes are of extreme interest , since smart city headmasters that have been interviewed consider the smart city from different lens , while most have not considered the importance of applying a business model on their case due to the fact that they concern public projects . Interviews’ analysis is beyond the purposes of this paper and only the extracted proposed values are presented , which have been assigned to business models and corresponding patterns . Proposed customer values are different among the examined representative cases .
Table 2 . Openness of the Commercial Enterprise and ICT network ownership business model assignment Business model pattern
Business Model
Cases
1 . Open ( Public Network )
Private ( Independent Private
Developer )
( Selected
( Appointed
Exclusive Provider ) Managed Provider )
Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable
Bristol ( UK ) , Amsterdam , Cape Town , South Africa , Helsinki , Antwerp , Belgium Malta , Dubai , New Songdo , Taipei , Taiwan , Tianjin , China , Dongtan ( S . Korea ) , Osaka , Austin ( USA ) , Manhattan Harbour ( Kentucky , USA ) , Masdar ( United Arab Emirates ) Seoul , Beijing , Helsinki Arabianranta ( Finland ) , Blacksburg Electronic Village ( Australia ) Geneva MAN , Trikala ( Greece ) , Barcelona , Brisbane , Tampere ( Finland ) , Hull ( UK ) , Knowledge Based Cities ( Portugal ) America On Line ( AOL ) Cities Kyoto ( Japan ) Copenhagen Base Craigmillar Community Information Service , Scotland
Open
Unbundling
Unbundling
Unbundling
Information Service Provider 1 Information Service Provider1 Open Open Open id
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 . 6 . 7 . 8 . 9 .
1Direct service provision does not concern a pattern
531 Table 3 : Outcomes from visits and interviews by smart city experts
Proposed Value Create business opportunities
Smart city know how to other cities
Develop high speed networks and smart grids for energy management Develop high speed networks and smart grids for energy management Develop new ideas for the urban space
Business Model
Open network with expert free lancers Direct sale
Open access network ( rent to operator ) Open access network ( rent to operator ) Full service provider id 1 .
2 . 3 .
4 .
5 .
6 . 7 . 8 . 9 .
10 .
11 .
12 .
Case
Tampere
Trikala
Geneva
Zurich
Australian cases
( Brisbane , Queensland ,
Melbourne )
New Songdo , Seoul
London
Smart Vienna New York City
World Bank
UN ITU
UN Habitat
City as a product Climate change management Develop standards for smart city solutions Value net integrators Develop cloud services and open data
Full service provider Full service provider
Develop cloud services and open data in developing countries’ cities Standardize smart sustainable city infrastructure Engage mayors internationally to preserve climate change and establish urban resilience .
Information service provider Information service provider Open access network ( rent to operator ) N/A
Pattern Open
Unbundling
Open
Open
N/A
Unbundling Unbundling
Open
Unbundling
Unbundling
Open
N/A
Table 3 confirms business models that are followed by smart cities in practice . Open access network for instance appears the most favorite among the other network owners’ models . Open Access [ 7 ] provides a network business model that separates the physical bearer network from the service network . The infrastructure of an Open Access network is built by an operator . Retail service providers ( RSP ) directly lease bandwidth on the infrastructure network to provide service packages to end subscribers . In the conventional model , an operator builds and operates its network and delivers services to end users . Unlike the conventional model , Open Access builds a layered network over which separate Service Providers deliver their services . 3.3 Discussion This study showed that the smart city domain has already involved many ( 26 ) different business models according to literature findings and the examined cases . Most of these models are grouped in 3 classes ( web based , e commerce , network ownership ) , while they all align to three business model patterns ( open , free and unbundling ) . These findings answer this paper ’s research question , while they validate this paper ’s grounded hypothesis . The identified and presented business models concern the smart city owner perspective , which means that not all the potential stakeholders’ perspectives on proposed values are examined . However , these outcomes do not necessarily create a limitation for this study ; since most smart cities are being developed with public initiatives and the involvement of the private sector with individual resources has appeared only in small scale cases , which operate as exemplars . A quite unexpected outcome concerns network ’s commercialization , where theoretically proposed business models do not appear in practice , where the open access network is mostly preferred . Important findings have also been extracted regarding the values that the investigated activities propose . Today smart cities appear as the solution to manage urbanism , waste , emissions and resource in cities . However , these values do not clearly appear when the question goes to business model . More specifically , all the examined business models appear to return value to smart city owners , in terms of internal efficiency ( webbased models ) ; money ( network providers ) ; city attractiveness ( e commerce models ) ; or standardization ( value integrators ) . Finally , although IoT is being discussed extensively and corresponding innovative products and services are being developed , it is still under development in the smart city context and it has not been utilized yet . These outcomes are of extreme interest to both the smart city industry and the increasing smart city development , argument appears about the corresponding technology push which is enforced by vendors [ 13 ] . To this end , this study demonstrates how the proposed values will be delivered to smart city stakeholders and the means , which would involve vendors in smart city privatization . 4 . CONCLUSIONS This paper addresses a significant problem in the smart city domain , regarding money and value sources of the smart city market . More specifically , although smart city concerns an accepted fast growing market , it is not clear how this money and corresponding values are proposed and created . This problem importance is great due to the investments’ size , as well as due to the observed private sector ’s reluctance to enter this market local governments . Today , despite the
532 to concerned the ones discovered without public support . Vendors justify this reluctance with complexity barriers . In this regard , this paper investigated smart city business models from the owner perspective and grounded a research question concerning their number , characteristics and classification . In an attempt to answer this paper ’s research question , literature findings regarding smart city business models were collected and discussed . Literature returned three business model types ( web based , network owner and e commerce ) , which have been utilized in different manner by various smart city cases . On the other hand , business model patterns were assigned to the extracted smart city business models and successful matching to three patterns was observed ( open , free and unbundling ) . Moreover , this paper examined real case studies internationally and observed that the adopted business models are quite different literature . Another unexpected outcome city network ’s commercialization , where open access model is the preferred one . Finally , findings show that IoT has not been capitalized in smart cities yet and corresponding business models have not been extracted . Although this paper concerns a work in progress , existing outcomes can be utilized by smart city vendors , while future research aims to shed light on more prestigious smart city cases and discover means with which enterprises can enter smart cities successfully . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research has been co financed by the European Union ( European Social Fund ESF ) and Greek national funds through the Operational Program "Education and Lifelong Learning" of the National Strategic Reference Framework ( NSRF ) Research Funding Program : ARCHIMEDES III . Investing in knowledge society through the European Social Fund . in smart
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ]
Alcatel Lucent Market and Consumer Insight team , “ Getting Smart about Smart Cities Understanding the market opportunity in the cities of tomorrow , ” 2012 . [ Online ] . Available : http://www2alcatellucentcom/knowledge center/admin/mci files1a2c3f/ma/Smart_Cities_Market_opportunity_MarketA nalysis.pdf , Oct . 2013 L . Anthopoulos , and P . , Fitsilis , “ Smart Cities and their Roles in City Competition : a Classification , ” International Journal of Electronic Government Research ( IJEGR ) , 10 ( 1 ) , pp . 67 81 , 2014 . L . Anthopoulos , and P . , Fitsilis , “ Exploring Architectural and Organizational Features in Smart
[ 2 ]
[ 3 ]
[ 4 ]
[ 5 ]
[ 6 ]
[ 7 ]
[ 8 ]
Cities , ” 16th International Conference on Advanced Communications Technology ( ICACT2014 ) , IEEE , 2014 . E . Bucherer , and D . Uckelmann , ( 2011 ) . “ Business Models for the Internet of Things , ” . In Uckelmann et al . ( Eds ) Architecting the Internet of Things , Springer Heidelberg Dordrecht London New York . CISCO “ The City of The Future , ” 2014 , [ Online ] . Available : http://shareciscocom/TheCityOfTheFuture/the city ofthefuturehtml?_ga=11153937296300373141415774790 H . Chourabi , T . Nam , S . Walker , JR Gil Garcia , S . Mellouli , K . Nahon , TA Pardo , and HJ Scholl , ( 2012 ) . “ Understanding smart cities : An Integrative Framework , ” . In Proceedings of the 45th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences . S . Giles , “ One Smart City business model is illusory , ” 2012 [ Online ] . Available : http://wwwsmartcitiesineuropecom/2012/09/one smartcity business model is illusory/ G . Falconer , and S . Mitchell , “ Smart City Framework : A Systematic Process for Enabling Smart+Connected Communities , ” 2012 [ Online ] . Available : http://wwwciscocom/web/about/ac79/docs/ps/motm/S mart City Framework.pdf
[ 9 ] M . Janssen , G . Kuk , and RW Wagenaar , “ A Survey of
Web based Business Models for e Government in Netherlands , ” Government Information Quarterly , 25(2 ) , pp . 202 220 , 2008 .
[ 10 ] G . Kuk , and M . Janssen , “ The Business Models and
Information Architectures of Smart Cities , ” Journal of Urban Technology , 18(2 ) , pp . 39 52 , 2011 .
[ 11 ] M . Morris , M . Schindehutte , J . Richardson , J . and Allen ,
“ Is the business model a useful strategic concept ? Conceptual , theoretical , and empirical insights , ” Journal of Small Business Strategy , 17 , pp . 27 50 , 2006 .
[ 12 ] A . Osterwalder , and Y . Pigneur , “ Business Model
Generation , ” 2010 . Hoboken , New Jersey : John Wiley & Sons , Inc .
[ 13 ] O . Soderstrom , T . Paasche , and F . Klauser , “ Smart cities
[ 14 ] as corporate storytelling , ” City , 18(3 ) , pp . 307 – 320 , 2014 . P . Timmers , “ Business models for electronic markets , ” Journal of Electronic Markets , 8 , pp . 3 8m , 1998 . [ 15 ] E . Turban , “ Electronic Commerce : A Managerial Perspective , ” London , UK : Prentice Hall , 2012
533
