Thematically Analysing Social Network Content During Disasters Through the Lens of the Disaster
Management Lifecycle
Sophie Parsons
Electronics and Computer Science ,
University of Southampton , UK sp13g10@southamptonacuk
Peter M . Atkinson
Geography and Environment University of Southampton , UK pmatkinson@southamptonacuk
ABSTRACT Social Networks such as Twitter are often used for disseminating and collecting information during natural disasters . The potential for its use in Disaster Management has been acknowledged . However , more nuanced understanding of the communications that take place on social networks are required to more effectively integrate this information into the processes within disaster management . The type and value of information shared should be assessed , determining the benefits and issues , with credibility and reliability as known concerns . Mapping the tweets in relation to the modelled stages of a disaster can be a useful evaluation for determining the benefits/drawbacks of using data from social networks , such as Twitter , in disaster management . A thematic analysis of tweets’ content , language and tone during the UK Storms and Floods 2013/14 was conducted . Manual scripting was used to determine the official sequence of events , and classify the stages of the disaster into the phases of the Disaster Management Lifecycle , to produce a timeline . Twentyfive topics discussed on Twitter emerged , and three key types of tweets , based on the language and tone , were identified . The timeline represents the events of the disaster , according to the Met Office reports , classed into B . Faulkner ’s Disaster Management Lifecycle framework . Context is provided when observing the analysed tweets against the timeline . This illustrates a potential basis and benefit for mapping the Disaster Management Lifecycle phases . Comparing the number of tweets submitted in each month with the timeline , suggests users tweet more as an event heightens and persists . Furthermore , users generally express greater emotion and urgency in their tweets . This paper concludes that the thematic analysis of content on social networks , such as Twitter , can be useful in gaining additional perspectives for disaster management . It demonstrates that mapping tweets into the phases of a Disaster Management Lifecycle model can have benefits in the recovery phase , not just in the response phase , to potentially improve future policies and activities .
Categories and Subject Descriptors K40 [ COMPUTERS AND SOCIETY ] : General tweets into
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author's site if the Material is used in electronic media . , WWW’15 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082741721
Elena Simperl and Mark Weal Electronics and Computer Science ,
University of Southampton , UK {esimperl,mjw7}@sotonacuk or hydro meteorological
General Terms Management , Human Factors , Theory Keywords Disaster Management , Thematic Analysis , Disaster Management Lifecycle , Situation Awareness , Twitter , Social Networks , Natural Disaster .
1 . INTRODUCTION Disaster management involves handling , organising and controlling the events and activities in preparation and response to disasters [ Alexander 2005 ] . A disaster can be defined as “ a singular , large scale , high impact extreme event ” [ Cutter 2003 ] . They often result in severe repercussions , requiring unordinary response [ Alexander 2005 ] . Natural disasters are provoked by factors geological , biological [ Asmatullah and Himayatullah 2008 ] . Examples include earthquakes , cyclones and floods . During a natural disaster , people increasingly use microblogging and social networking sites , to share and retrieve information in real time ; an imperative requirement of communication during a disaster [ Vieweg 2010 ; Kongthon et al . 2012 ] . Microblogging is a type of online communication that enables users to post short entries quickly . Twitter , a social network , is a popular form of microblogging [ Lie et al . 2014 ] . This paper analyses Twitter data in relation to the phases of the Disaster Management Lifecycle ( DML ) through an exemplar case study of flooding in the UK in 2013/14 . It focuses on analysing the content , language and tone of tweets posted during a disaster . The study classifies the Met Office event reports from the period under examination into the phases of the DML , to produce a timeline . It considers whether mapping the analysed tweets to this timeline provides new insights that might be beneficial to Disaster Management . Relevant literature is discussed in section 2 . In section 3 the methodology used is described , including a description of the UK storms and floods 2013/14 case study . This is followed by results in section 4 and a discussion in section 5 . Finally the paper concludes in section 6 .
2 . BACKGROUND Disaster Management is improved by utilising strategies and frameworks , such as the Disaster Management Lifecycle ( DML ) . The DML models the stages of a disaster , and highlights the operations that take place within each phase [ Faulkner 2001 ] .
Although some activities are unique to their particular stage , it is not a series of events ; phases can overlap . Furthermore , the timescales of each phase vary depending on the type and severity of the disaster [ Asmatullah and Himayatullah 2008 ] . A generic representation of the DML encompasses three predominant phases ; Preparedness , Response and Recovery . However , it is commonly adapted . Faulkner [ 2001 ] describes a DML framework containing six phases ; Pre Event ( action taken to prevent or mitigate potential disasters ) , Prodromal ( when it is apparent a disaster is imminent ) , Emergency ( initial effects of the disaster is felt ) , Intermediate ( short term needs have been addressed ; the main focus is to restore to normal ) , Long Term ( activities that take longer to resolve ) and Resolution ( routine restored and reviewing takes place ) . Communication is essential throughout the DML , particularly during the Response Phase . Yet , Lie et al . [ 2014 ] state that the public tends to feel dissatisfied with the information from official sources . Past case studies illustrate the public ’s preference of accessing information regarding a disaster through the use of the Web . Following the World Trade Centre and Pentagon Attacks in 2001 , the number of Web searches amplified ; during the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 , the use of photo repository sites dramatically increased ; and Social Networks were the main source for obtaining news updates during the Virginia Tech Shooting 2007 [ Starbird and Palen 2010 ] . Authors , Bruns and Stieglitz [ 2012 ] , identified that users generally share key emergency response information , and are less interested in posting comments or statements leading up to a potential event . This demonstrates the value of information from Microblogs during the response of a disaster [ Terpstra et al . 2012 ] . It can also help to shape future innovations , policy and practice [ Palen et al . , 2011 ] . This has inspired the research domain Crisis Informatics . Combining the study of Disasters and Computing , it aims to discover how together , they can assist in mitigating disasters’ effects and impacts [ Palen et al . 2007 ] . Vieweg et al . [ 2010 ] highlight the potential of gaining situational awareness features for qualitatively analysing tweets submitted during a disaster . Situation Awareness is defined as “ tactical , actionable information that can aid people in making decisions , advise others on how to obtain specific information from various sources , or offer immediate post impact help to those affected by the mass emergency ” [ Imran et al . 2013 ] . However , credibility and reliability are concerns in using social networks in Disaster Management . Esoteric language and grammar , message length and locale specific references can cause difficulty in ensuring useful and relevant information is aggregated [ Kieryev et al . 2009 ] . Thus , there is a need for gaining a theoretical understanding of the communications on microblogs and social networks to minimise the problem [ Vieweg 2010 ] . It is also imperative to understand the nature of information sharing activities , prior to incorporating the use of microblogging and social networking sites as a standard in Disaster Management [ Palen et al . 2011 ] .
3 . METHODOLOGY Thematic analysis and manual scripting were the methodologies employed to conduct this study . This required Twitter data and the official Met Office reports of the event . Several steps were taken to obtain an adequate sample of the Twitter data and acquire the Met Office reports and execute the analysis . the development of
3.1 Case Study The case study selected was the recent flooding disaster in the UK . October 2013 , begun with St Jude ’s Storm1 . In December 2013 a further storm occurred , which was followed by numerous bouts of stormy weather ; this was the stormiest weather the UK had seen since 1969 . Following the New Year 2014 , there was further damage and flooding . Without having fully recovered from the previous storms , January 2014 was the wettest January for over 100 years . With a short respite at the end of January , further storms were experienced during February 2014 . Continuous rainfall caused rivers to burst their banks , hundreds of people left without power , railways destroyed , infrastructure damaged , and many people forced to evacuate their homes . As conditions worsened , recovery actions were prohibited . Late February finally saw the crisis subside . Major recovery and resolution actions were required to restore the UK back to normality [ Met Office 2014 ] . 3.2 Obtaining Twitter Data Twitter sourced the data used for part of this study . ‘Tweets’ ; messages posted on Twitter , consist of a variety of attributes including the message content , a date/time stamp and a user ID ( representing the author of that message ) . This study solely focuses on the message content of the tweet and it ’s date/time stamp . To collect a sample relevant to the case study and with minimal noise , the term “ flooding ” and hashtag “ #floods ” were used to gather tweets from Twitter . It should be noted that the term and hashtag used are by no means the only ones representing the entire conversations about the UK floods , however , the scale of the project required that the number of tweets be limited . The tweets’ date/time stamp was also constrained to the three months ; December 2013 ; January 2014 ; and February 2014 . This was a critical period of the crisis and represents the time before , during and immediately following the disaster . With an approximate 8.8 million tweets , the sample required further reduction to enable the manual coding process to be executed . To accomplish this , a script was created using the programming language PyMongo . The script consisted of a regular expression , searching for tweets containing a specified set of case insensitive characters , ‘flood’ and either ‘uk or england’ , in the message content . This provided a final sample size of 638 tweets . However , after an initial parsing by eye , 34 tweets were classed as ‘off topic,’ due to their irrelevance to the case study , for example :
“ I'm flooding all my social networks this weekend and spring break like fuk it ”
3.3 Thematic Analysis Thematic Analysis , a qualitative methodology , was employed to explore peoples’ engagement with the disaster on Twitter . It takes a bottom up approach , involving the formation of three levels ; ‘Basic Themes’ , ‘Organised Themes’ and a ‘Global Theme’ [ Thomas 2003 ] . Due to the purposive nature of this study , it was quickly apparent the global theme would be UK Storms and Floods 2013/14 .
1 BBC NEWS . ( 2014 ) 10 key moments of the UK winter storms . http://wwwbbccouk/news/uk
Conspiracies/Stateme nts of Causes
Complaints dvice Ad
Evacua a on
Flood Appeals/P Pe ons
Instruc c on
Help Requests
Help/Rescue
Non‐Constru c ve Opinions
Sarcasm
Sympathy
Subjec ve S and K Storms Cri cal UK d Floods and 013/14 20
Objec ve and
Instruc ve
Media Requests M
Recommenda on
Recovery Ac ons
School/College/Unive rsity Closures
Warnings
Aid
Flood Preven on ns
Inf forma ve and Suppor ve
Wea ather Forecasts
Weather D
Descrip on
Damage Funds Inf s/Funding forma on Requests
Transport Updates s
Support
Prep pera on
Figure 1 . A V isualisation of t the Basic , Orga anised and Glob bal Themes . on ns ? ” , of to to ost ( a is ed he of tweets , keyw mes . During thi as “ What are th weet conveyed ? ” take away fro information e nd thus classify hould be noted ther user ’s tweet o state that for th y . Using this met ess features com egories were g o the type of twee to Verma [ 2011 be useful for words facilitated is process , a var he main keywor ” and “ What is m the tweet ? ” each tweet wa it into the categ that in this stud t ) , was treated in his study a tweet thodology , an id mmunicated was grouped into or ets made in term ] , identifying the determining th the identificatio riety of questio rds of the tweet ? the main piece ” This helped as attempting gory deemed mo dy , a ‘retweet’ ndependently . It was only groupe dentification of th obtained . rganising theme ms of language an e type of tweets he value of th es , nd in he
U Using a sample o of the basic them w were asked such “ “ How was the tw nformation to in u understand the c communicate , an a appropriate . It sh r eposting of anot a also important to in nto one category s situation awarene F Finally , the cat c corresponding to to one . According th his way can in nformation .
3.4 Timelin 3 M Manual Scriptin v visualisation of s sources . The Me [ Met Office 2014 w were analysed . in nformation from d disaster were ide fr from the reports F Faulkner ’s [ 2001
4 . RESULT 4 H Having conducte ti imeline , the res tw weets posted du in nto the phases o th he analysed twe ne Construc ng was used t the sequence t Office Report 4 ] , the Met Offic Through select m the three sour entified . Using s , the dates wer 1 ] DML . tion to form an un of events bas ‘UK Storms and ce Archives and ting the dates rces , the signific the details of th re categorised in nderstanding an sed upon offici d Floods 2013/1 BBC News link and surroundin cant stages of th he dates extracte nto the phases nd ial 4’ ks , ng he ed of
TS ed a Thematic A sults illustrate th uring the event , t of the DML , an ets and the timel
Analysis and con he content , lang the timeline of th nd the emerging line . nstructed an eve guage and tone he event classifie patterns betwee ent of ed en
Content An sample of tw tage of tweets ; r were felt du tage of tweets . en December and weet in the samp ssages they wer include : alysis weets obtained , 65 % . Althoug uring Decembe However , ther d January . ple was indepen re attempting to
4.1 C In the percent disaster percent betwee Each tw the mes tweets
February had gh the first imp er , it received re was only 1 % the highest pacts of the the lowest % difference ndently analysed , communicate . E
, identifying Examples of
“ F FLOOD WARNI htt tp://t.co/9NjtfzTS #flo
NING and this eve TSMF #cornwalls ooding #ukstorm enings tide times storm #cornwall m #coast ” s here : l #scilly
“ If you've been a “ affected by #floo @E @EnvAgency Floo odline 24/7 for a #u ukstorm #flooda oding , you can ca advice on 034598 aware ” s : People . The r roads are rapidly please try to get re not at home p ” #ukstorm ”
“ RT aroun
@OliversSherbs nd here . If you a all the 881188 y flooding there asap
After s global represe categor that we The or languag
Here , persona an exp warning tweets portray class co several passes th themes emerged ent the users’ to ries also illustrat ere available dur rganised themes ge and tone of th hrough of the da d , shown in Fig opics of interest te the types of s ring the UK Stor s were determi he tweets . ata , the basic , or gure 1 . The 25 b t during the disa situation awaren rms and Floods 2 ined , based upo rganised and basic themes aster . These ness features 2013/14 . on both the
‘Subjective an al , and/or provid pression of sym gs . The group providing use yed with a suppo orresponds to an nd Critical’ typ ded urgent infor mpathy or a sta ‘Informative eful informatio ortive tone . The ny tweet that is pe tweets are rmation/stateme atement of imm and Supportive n regarding th ‘Objective and specific to the d defined as ents , such as minent flood e’ represent he disaster , Instructive’ disaster , but d does not prese in nstructive or hel T The total number v visually in Figu in ndicative of the d demonstrate that a and ‘Flood App d discussed . School/College/ ‘ nt any person lpful information r of tweets in ea ure 2 , where th quantity of Tw t information re peals/Petitions’ con Users /University Clos nal attachment , n succinctly . ach category vari he size of the weets in that cate egarding ‘Weat were the mos nversed litt ures’ and ‘Help and/or provid des ied . This is show category text egory . The resul ther Description st popular topi tle regardin Requests.’ wn is lts ns’ ics ng
Fig gure 2 . Visualis ation of the num mber of tweets in each categor ry .
4.2 The Eve 4 D Dates explicitly s sources , forming 2 2013/14 , see Fi r eferred to for the in ncrease in the F February , twelve c categories of the d different block c category of the m
D During the three o of the six phases In ntermediate . Ho th he Emergency p A According to th r otations of parts a alternated betwe ents Timelin y stated were e g the timeline igure 3 . It show e month of Dece number of da e dates were reco DML model th colours in the model ; see the ke ne extracted from of the UK Sto ws that six spe ember . January h ates mentioned : orded . The timel at each date was e visualisation ey for details ) . the Met Offi orms and Floo ecific dates we had a considerab eleven , and f line also maps th s classified in ( th each represent ce ds ere ble for he he a months , the date of the model : Pr owever , the disas phase . he timeline , th s of Faulkner ’s een the Prodro es were only cla rodromal , Emerg ster was predomi ssified into three e gency and inantly classed i n he disaster ran DML model . G omal phase and through sever Generally the dat d the Emergenc ral tes cy phase , phase i the end stages o This tim during 4.3 T Figure three m type o Februar By Feb dramati being th type tw event increas
5 . DI The out highlig Disaste
5.1 T The sa submitt persists signific predom Emerge betwee disaster
5.2 U Users t tweets number ‘Subjec encomp Instruct This su informa however , the c in the beginning d of January . On of the crisis clas meline aids in the disaster . Tweet Type 4 illustrates the months . The ‘Su of tweets made ry saw the categ bruary , the perc ically dropped , the most popular weets were neve continued , the sed . crisis also mov g of February aft nly the months o ssified into the In the contextuali ved back to the fter an Intermedi f January and F ntermediate phas sing of the use e Prodromal iate phase at ebruary saw se . e of Twitter es Across Ti e use of the diffe ubjective and Cr e in December gories beginning centage of ‘Subj with ‘Informat r type , although er the most pop percentage of me ferent tweet type ritical’ class do r . However , J to level out . jective and Crit ive and Suppor ‘Objective and pular class of tw f tweets in th es across the minated the anuary and tical’ tweets rtive’ tweets Instructive’ weets , as the his category
N ISCUSSION hematic analysis utcomes of the th ght three insights s regarding the u er Management . and timeline ma use of Twitter da apping ata in
Twitter Use ample of tweets ting tweets rega s and magnifies . cantly across th minant categorisa ence phases , it en the types of r . e Variation a used in this st arding the even . Additionally , t he three months ation of dates f could be sugge f tweets submit across the L tudy implies the nt heightens as the language and . Considering th falling in the Pr sted that a link tted , and the ph
Lifecycle e interest of the disaster d tone alters his , and the rodromal or is apparent hase of the
Users’ Moti tend to express during a disaste r of categories a ctive and Crit passes nine ba tive’ type of tw uggests Twitter i ation and expres ivation for U emotion and a er . The results il assigned to the tical’ and ‘Info asic themes , wh weets only cont is predominantly ssing support dur
Using Twitt a sense of urgen llustrated a diffe different organi formative and hereas the ‘Ob tained seven ba y used for provi ring a disaster . er ncy in their erence in the ised themes . Supportive’ bjective and asic themes . iding urgent
Key The
Disaster Lifecycle :
Pre‐Event Pro‐dromal Pha ase Emergency Pha se Intermediate Ph hase Long Term Phas se Resolution Phas se
December :
January :
February :
1st
2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th
1st
2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th
7th 8th 9th 10th 11th h 12th 13th 14th 15th 16th h 17th 18th 19th 20th 21s st 22nd 23rd 24th 25th 26
6th 27th 28th 29th 30th 31 1st
7th 8th 9th 10th 11th h 12th 13th 14th 15th 16th h 17th 18th 19th 20th 21s st 22nd 23rd 24th 25th 26
6th 27th 28th 29th 30th 31 1st
Figure
3 . Timeline of t the UK Storms and Floods 201
13/14 , Classfied d in the Approp priate DML Pha ases . e to disaster man posted . nagers as it prov vides further ould be valuable t on the tweets p
This co context
7 . AC CKNOWLE you to Ramine Thank Southam mpton ) for assis 8 . RE EFERENC [ 1 ] Al lexander , D . 200 in emergency plan Management . 14 , M [ 2 ] As smatullah , V . , & M Management Cycl nd Marketing – C an [ 3 ] Br runs , A . , and Sti Co omparing Comm Te echnology in Hu [ 4 ] Cu utter , S . L . 2003 an nd Emergency M [ 5 ] Fa aulkner , B . 2001 M Management Disa [ 6 ] Im mran . , M . et al . 2 isaster Related M Di the e 10th Internatio Germany , May . 2 ( G [ 7 ] Ki ireyev , K . , Palen f Topics Models of ata . NIPS Works Da ext and Beyond , Te tp://www.umiac htt [ 8 ] Ko ongthon , A . et a Na atural Disaster : C Pr roceedings of PI Em merging Techno [ 9 ] Li i , J . , Vishwanath ukushima Nuclea Fu the e ACM . 57,1 . 78 [ 10 ] M Met Office . 2014 . Th he Centre for Ec Re esearch Council tp://www.metof htt Br riefing_Final_07 [ 11 ] Pa alen , L . et al . 200 Ne etworked World 46 67 480 . [ 12 ] Pa alen , L . , Vieweg “ E Everyday Analys Th he Information S [ 13 ] St tarbird , K . , and P M Mass Emergency . IS SCRAM Conferen [ 14 ] Te erpstra , T . et al . du uring crises for o of f the 9th Internat 9 . 1
EDGMENT e Tinati ( Resea sting with the co ES 05 . Towards the nning . Disaster P 2 . 158–175 . & Himayatullah , le A Theoretic Craiova . 1 , 43–5 ieglitz , S . 2012 Q munication Patter uman Services . 3 . Review Article Management . 7,4 1 . Towards a Fra aster . Tourism M 2013 . Extracting Messages in Soc onal ISCRAM C 2013 ) , 1 10 . n , L . , and Ander to Analysis of D shop on Applicat December 2009 csumdedu/~jbg/ al . 2012 . The Rol Case Study of 20 ICMET '12 : Tech logies . 2227 22 h , A . , and Rao , R ar Radiation Dis 8 85 The Recent Sto cology & Hydrol l . 129 . [ Online ] A fficegovuk/med 7023.pdf 07 . Crisis Inform d , Social Science g , S . , and Anders sts ” in Safety an Society . 27,1 . 52Palen , L . 2010 . P Proceedings of nce . p.1 10 2012 . Towards a operational crisis tional ISCRAM C
TS arch Staff at U llection of the T
University of Twitter data . development of Prevention and f a standard proaches to Journal of er K . 2008 . Disaste anagement al Approach . Ma 50 . Quantitative App rns on Twitter . 0 , 3 4 . 60 185 . e GI Science . Di . 439–445 . amework for Tou Management . 22 , Information Nu cial Media . Proc Conference – Bad urism 2 . 135 147 uggets from ceedings of den Baden , isasters , pplications d Twitter Models : lable from : shop/15.pdf uring a 2012 . ement for rson , K . 2009 Ap Disaster Related tions for Topic M 9 . [ Online ] Avail /nips_tm_works le of Twitter Du 011 Thai Flood hnology Manage 232 . R . 2014 . Retweet saster . Communi ting the ications of orms and Floods in the UK . nvironment logy , Natural En Available From : nt_Storms_ dia/pdf/n/i/Recen matics : Studying e Computer Revi g Crisis in a iew . 27 . son , K . 2011 . Su nd Time Critical 62 . Pass it On ? Retw f the 7th Internat upporting l Situations . weeting in tional a Realtime Twit s management . P Conference ( Apr tter analysis Proceedings ril . 2012 ) ,
Figure 4 . Perce
5.3 Benefits 5 It t can be benefic n disaster mana in T The thematic e extracting situati id dentifying unh c conspiracies/state D Discovering key ti ime , can be vita D DML . Descriptio h highlight areas to r esources . A Analysing the we th he review of th p phase . Several t in ndicates that Tw prepare for pos p c categories use S School/College/U th hat Twitter emph m more attention to
6 . CONCL 6 T This type of stu In nformatics ; qual T To conclude , th c content from the b benefits of its use m mapping tweets a S Situation awaren T This is useful fo p potentially supp c classification sys M Much of the liter R Response phase d demonstrated the in n the Recovery p h highlight areas p practices . Finall c changing behavio eet Type in Each h entage of Tweet Mo s for Disaste cial to incorpora agement at more analysis has d ion awareness fe helpful categor ements of causes categories such al information d ons regarding th o focus on , and a ts for Each Twe onth . ment er Managem of social networ ate an analysis o e of the Lifecycl e than one stage th demonstrated he potential f s evacuations , an features , such as s , ries of tweet for examp ing an event . s , submitted dur alscriptions , in rea h as weather des during the Respo onse phase of th he elp he event can he he severity of th assist with assign ning activities an nd rks le . for nd ple be valuable durin categories can b eightings of the in the Recove ally carried out he event , typica nd petitions . Th ood appeals an tweets were flo ng action to bett eal areas requirin witter could reve ore , it highligh vents . Furtherm ssible future ev examp d ers conversed on , ould be conclude ures . Thus , it co University Closu Response and R Recovery requirin hasises areas of . o enhance Disast ter Management ng ery his ter hts ple ed ng little for
LUSION udy can be bene litative analysis is study has di e social network e in disaster man according to the ness features sh for the Response port the functio stems . rature focuses on e of a disaster , e potential bene phase . The resul to focus on t y , it has demo our and reaction eficial for future can improve dat scussed a quali king site , Twitte nagement , and th defined phases hared on Twitter e phase of the onal requiremen e works in Cris sis ta interpretation . of itative analysis er , illustrating th he of he potential use of the DML . r were identifie DML , and cou nts for automat ed . uld tic n the use of soci , however , this efits of reviewin lts suggest analy to enhance fut onstrated an in ns across the tim ial networks in th s study has al ng social networ ysing tweets cou ture policies an sight to people meline of an even he so rks uld nd e ’s nt .
[ 15 ] Thomas , D . 2003 . A General Inductive Approach for
Qualitative Data Analysis . American Journal of Evaluation . ( June , 2006 ) , 27.2 , 237 246 .
[ 16 ] Verma , S . , et al . 2011 . Natural Language Processing to the Rescue ? Extracting “ Situational Awareness ” Tweets During Mass Emergency . Proceedings of the Fifth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media . 385 392 .
[ 17 ] Vieweg , S . 2010 . Microblogged Contributions to the
Emergency Arena : Discovery , Interpretation and
Implications . Computer Supported Collaborative Work . 515516 .
[ 18 ] Vieweg , S . et al . 2010 . Microblogging During Two Natural Hazards Events : What Twitter May Contribute to Situational Awareness . Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems . 1079 1088 .
