Collaborative Datasets Retrieval for Interlinking
HaiChi Liu
College of Computer , National on Web of Data College of Computer , National
JinTao Tang
DengPing Wei
College of Computer , National
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China liuhaichi@nudteducn tangjintao@nudteducn
PeiLei Liu
Hong Ning dpwei@nudteducn
Ting Wang
College of Computer , National
College of Computer , National
College of Computer , National
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China
University of Defense Technology
Changsha , Hunan 410073 PR China plliu@nudteducn hning@nudteducn tingwang@nudteducn
ABSTRACT Dataset interlinking is a great important problem in Linked Data . We consider this problem from the perspective of information retrieval in this paper , thus propose a learning to rank based framework , which combines various similarity measures to retrieve the relevant datasets for a given dataset . Specifically , inspired by the idea of collaborative filtering , an effective similarity measure called collaborative similarity is proposed . Experimental results show that the collaborative similarity measure is effective for dataset interlinking , and the learning to rank based framework can significantly increase the performance .
[ Artificial
Categories and Subject Descriptors Intelligence ] : Knowledge Representation I24 Formalisms networks . H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval –Search process . and Methods
–Semantic
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Performance , Experimentation .
Keywords Linked data , Dataset interlinking , Collaborative datasets retrieval .
1 . INTRODUCTION Data linking [ 1 ] , ie , predicting links between different Linked Data datasets is an important problem in Linked Data . However , with the rapidly growth of Linked Data datasets , how to find relevant datasets becomes the first non trivial problem [ 2 ] for data linking . There are few works focusing on the relevant datasets identification . For instance , Nikolov et al utilized semantic web services [ 2 ] , while Lopes et al . [ 3 ] used a Bayesian classifier , and the work in literature employed the link prediction technique in Social Network Analysis ( SNA ) area . However , these methods are not intuitive for the most common scenario in data linking : when a new dataset is published , how to link the dataset into the Web of Data ? In this paper , we consider the problem from the perspective of Information Retrieval . That is , a given dataset is considered as the query and the datasets available on Web of Data is considered as the candidate documents . Based on this idea , we adopt and develop various similarity measures by exploiting the features of idea of content , collaborative filtering , a simple but effective measure called collaborative similarity is proposed and combined with other measures by a learning to rank framework . Experimental results show that the collaborative similarity is effective and learning to rank can further improve the performance . links etc . Specifically , inspired by the
2 . PROPOSED APPROACH 2.1 Learning to Rank Framework Linked data is a structured and semantic data source , which has various features that can be exploited to rank the relevance among datasets . Learning to rank is a data driven approach , which effectively incorporates a bag of features in a model for any ranking task . In this paper , we use the available datasets and their interlinking information to train a ranking model . Given a dataset as query and other datasets are considered as candidates . The candidates interlinked with the query are tagged as relevant , or tagged as irrelevant otherwise . Then a ranking model is trained by applying the algorithm of learning to rank . When a new query is given , the learned ranking model will be used to compute the relevant score for all the candidate datasets . 2.2 Ranking Functions Since the learning to rank algorithm was employed , the key problem is turned to how to define ranking measures to compute the probability that the query dataset will be interlinked with the candidate datasets . Previous works have already proposed various ranking measures according to the contents , links , and popularity etc . , all of which were adopted in this paper by the learning to rank algorithm . We also develop a novel ranking function , collaborative similarity that measures the similarity between query dataset and the datasets , which linked to candidate dataset .
69 Collaborative filtering recommendation is one of the most successful techniques in Recommender Systems . The motivation for collaborative filtering comes from the idea that people often get the best recommendations from someone with similar tastes . Applying this idea to our problem , if the query dataset is similar with the datasets , which were already linked to the candidate dataset , it is reasonable to infer that the query dataset also can establish links to the candidate dataset . Based on this idea , we developed a ranking function called collaborative similarity . The set of datasets linked to candidate dataset c is mentioned as the in link set s , thus the feature vector of s can be represent as Vs=(w1 , w2,… , wn ) . The adapted tf idf value is used to measure the features’ weight wi : obtained by combining collaborative similarity with vocabulary , class and property features . Furthermore , the most common scenario is how to recommend some datasets when a new dataset wants to link into Web of Data . The P@N value measure the precision at top n results , which are suitable to evaluate the performance in this scenario . Figure 1 shows the P@N curves of the aforementioned systems , which demonstrated that the learning to rank method is much more effective when considering the top n results . Especially , with the smaller n , the proposed method has better results , which is ideal for recommending the relevant datasets to the new dataset . i
⋅ tf i
= log(
)S/S
, while tfi is the frequency of feature i , |S| is w i the number of all in link sets , |Si| is the number of in link sets have feature i . The query dataset q can be presented as a 0 1 feature vector Vq=(w1 , w2,… wn ) , wi=1 if q has feature i , otherwise wi=0 . The ranking score of the candidate dataset c for query dataset q is the dot product of the feature vectors of query dataset q and in link set S of candidate dataset c :
.
= score col
( q , c )
V q
•
V s
3 . EXPERIMENTS 3.1 Dataset The data extracted from the Data Hub catalog [ 3 ] is used in our experiments , which contains 295 datasets and 697 links . Some datasets don’t have vocabulary feature , which can be added by grouping all the namespace of their class and property URIs . There are 122 datasets have out linked to other datasets , which can be seen as query datasets . For each query dataset , the other 294 datasets are considered as candidate datasets , and the datasets linked to the query dataset are relevant datasets . We conducted 10 fold cross validation to relieve the over fitting problem . Using this strategy , all the links between datasets can be tested once . The Coordinate Ascent algorithm [ 4 ] in RankLib is adopted to learn the rank model . Standard metrics Mean Average Precision ( MAP ) and Precision@N ( P@N ) were adopted to measure the performance . 3.2 Results The Link Predication method and Bayesian based method [ 3 ] were implemented with the best configuration to compare with our proposed approach . The effectiveness of collaborative similarity , and the learning to rank model combining measures of all feature types are evaluated .
Table . 1 MAP( % ) Performance of Different Methods
Collaborative SimilarityVocabulary
59.43
Combine all
Feature Types 62.38
Link
Predication
54.68
Bayesian Method 55.43
The collaborative similarity with vocabulary feature measure outperforms previous works . The MAP is around 59 % , which shows that the idea inspired by collaborative filtering is quite promising . Using learning to rank algorithm to combine ranking functions of different feature types is very effective , which can further improve the performance . The highest MAP 62.38 % is
Figure 1 . P@N Performance compared with previous works 4 . CONCLUSION In this paper we proposed a novel approach to identify the relevant dataset for data linking on Web of Data . The problem is considered from the perspective of Information Retrieval , thus a learning to rank algorithm is adopted to incorporate various ranking measures according to the contents , links , and popularity . Experimental results show that the collaborative similarity is quite effective and the learning to rank algorithm can further improve the performance . Acknowledgments This material is based on work supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China ( 61200337 , 61202118 , 61472436 ) . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ferrara , A . , Nikolov , A . , & Scharffe , F . 2011 . Data Linking for the Semantic Web . International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems ( IJSWIS ) , 7(3 ) , 46 76 .
[ 2 ] Nikolov , Andriy and d'Aquin , Mathieu . 2011 . Identifying relevant sources for data linking using a semantic web index . In : Linked Data on the Web Workshop at 20th International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 2011 ) , India .
[ 3 ] Lopes G . R . , Leme LAPP , Nunes BP , et al . Two Approaches to the Dataset Interlinking Recommendation Problem . 2014 . In : 15th International Conference on Web Information System Engineering ( WISE 2014)71 74
[ 4 ] D . Metzler and WB Croft . Linear feature based models for information retrieval . 2007 . Information Retrieval , 10(3 ) : 257 274 .
70
