Detecting Concept level Emotion Cause in Microblogging
Shuangyong Song , Yao Meng
Internet Application Laboratory , Fujitsu R&D Center Co . , Ltd .
Beijing 100025 , China .
{shuangyong.song , mengyao}@cnfujitsucom
ABSTRACT In this paper , we propose a Concept level Emotion Cause Model ( CECM ) , instead of the mere word level models , to discover causes of microblogging users’ diversified emotions on specific hot event . A modified topic supervised biterm topic model is utilized in CECM to detect ‘emotion topics’ in event related tweets , and then context sensitive topical PageRank is utilized to detect meaningful multiword expressions as emotion causes . Experimental results on a dataset from Sina Weibo , one of the largest microblogging websites in China , show CECM can better detect emotion causes than baseline methods . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications – Data mining . General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation . Keywords : Emotion cause detection , Microblogging , Topic model , Context sensitive topical PageRank . 1 . INTRODUCTION Fast diffusion of information makes microblogging a convenient platform for users to seek new trends and express emotions about hot events . Generally , users may have different emotions on an event , and those emotions are from different aspects of the event with various causes [ 1 ] . For example , with event ‘missing Malaysia plane MH370’ , victim relatives’ hearts are filled with sadness and fear , while other people may feel sympathetic and angry . By analyzing people ’s emotions and the causes , a user can better understand the details of events he is interested in , such as events’ different perspectives and development tendency . Existing studies have focused on detecting emotion cause by discovering the most frequently co occurred clauses or words with a single emotion word [ 1 ] . Those approaches are beneficial when the average length of texts is not short . However , it is hard to discover the co occurrence relationship between emotions and their causes in tweet like short texts . Furthermore , causes of a single emotion word can’t thoroughly describe information of a specific emotion , since emotion is an abstract topic . To solve those problems , in this paper we proposed a Concept level Emotion Cause Model ( CECM ) for detecting emotion topics and emotion causes in microblogging . Microblogging users may use various expression to express their emotions , more than just use standard emotion words [ 3 ] . In addition , those non emotion word expression on different events are also generally not same [ 6 ] . So taking emotion words as seeds to automatically detect user emotion on specific event is more labor saving and robust than training model with massive manual annotations . CECM first preprocesses the microblogging data and perform Chinese word segmentation , and then utilizes a topic
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW'15 Companion , May 18 22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742710 supervised biterm topic model to detect emotion topics with a manually collected emotion dictionary , finally detects emotion causes from the emotion topics , and it can also detect relationship between emoticons and emotions . In the following of this article , we will illustrate the details of problem definition and proposed CECM model , along with the experimental results . 2 . PROBLEM DEFINITION & METHOD 2.1 Problem Definition Referring to the description in [ 1 ] , we give the definition of emotion topic as ‘a probability distribution over words according to their relevance to a specific emotion’ , and assume that emotion causes are contained in related emotion topic . In our emotion dictionary , number of emotions is K , and emotions are defined as E = {e1 , e2 , … , eK} . The number of emotion topics is also K , decided by emotion dictionary , and emotion topics are accordingly denoted as Te = {te1 , te2 , … , teK} . Assuming the number of emoticons in our data is N , we define emoticons as I = {i1 , i2 , … , iN} . Given an event related microblogging dataset , our goal is to detect causes of concept level emotions from Te . 2.2 Method Description CECM contains four modules : preprocessing and word segmentation , emotion topic detection , emotion cause detection and emoticon emotion relationship detection . Preprocessing and Word Segmentation The “ @username ” symbols are removed since they does not actually represent meaningful content or emotions . URLs , non texts and ‘forwarding’ tags are also removed . Besides , microblogging allows users to insert emoticons in tweets to express sentiments , such as ‘[anger]’ , ‘[yeah]’ and ‘[kiss]’ . For detecting relation between emoticons and users’ emotions , we keep those emoticons as simple terms . Then we apply ICTCLAS system [ 2 ] to perform Chinese word segmentation on the corpus , with taking all emotion words in our collected emotion dictionary as user defined words . Then tweets containing at least one emotion word will be remained in final experimental data . z be
ϕ(z )
T wi wj |B|
Fig 1 . Topic supervised biterm topic model
Emotion Topic Detection The graphical representation of proposed topic supervised biterm topic model ( TS BTM ) is given in Fig 1 , where  represents the distribution of words on Te and θ represents the distribution of Te on tweets . α and β are hyperparameters of Dirichlet priors for θ and  , respectively . |B| is
119 the total number of biterms [ 4 ] . For discovering Te , we add binary distributions be of emotion words on different emotions into the biterm topic model , which means that the probability of an emotion word appearing in the corresponding emotion topic is 1 and in other emotion topics is 0 , to restrict each topic can just describe one emotion . Emotion Cause Detection With the TS BTM , we can get Te . Then we can detect causes for each emotion ek from tek with context sensitive topical PageRank ( cTPR ) method proposed in [ 5 ] . cTPR takes terms as nodes in term graph , and the weight of edge from term x to term y is decided by the time of y showing as a previous term of x in topical tweets , then get topical ranking value of each term . After term ranking using cTPR , a common keyphrase generation method is used to detect keyphrases in each tek as emotion cause . We first select top 100 non emotional terms for each tek , and then look for combinations of these terms that occur as frequent phrases in the text collection [ 6 ] . Emoticon Emotion Relation Detection We define R(ek,in ) as relevance value between ek and in , which is contained in the detection result of tek . We set a threshold in formula ( 1 ) to judge if an emoticon is possibly related to an emotion , where p is a factor for adjusting the threshold value . Then , we utilize the ranking of remained threshold exceeded emoticons in each emotion topic to judge the importance of them . threshold
 p
* k

0 n
N
K
 k
 R e i , n 0  K N
*

( 1 )
3 . EXPERIMENTS 3.1 Dataset and Parameter Setting Sina Weibo is a well known Chinese micro blogging service , and the dataset used in our experiments is collected from Sina Weibo , which is about the 2011 Japanese Earthquake . It contains 42,109 tweets , comprised of 17,929 different words and 828 emoticons . Emotion dictionary used in our experiments is collected manually with considering some different related resources , which contains 36 emotions and accordingly 542 emotion words . Table 1 gives some examples . We set the parameter K to be 36 according to this dictionary and N to be 828 according to the microblogging data .
Table 1 . Emotion dictionary examples Chinese Emotion words 敬佩(jingpei ) , 敬仰(jingyang ) , 敬重(jingzhong ) 哭(ku ) , 悲痛(beitong ) , 叹息(tanxi ) , 悲哀(beiai )
Emotions Esteem Sadness Sympathy 同情(tongqing ) , 可怜(kelian ) , 可惜(kexi ) 3.2 Results and Discussions We measure the effects of CECM using Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain at top k ( NDCG@k ) and Mean Average Precision ( MAP ) . Accordingly , two additional emotion cause detection methods are conducted as baselines : Co occurrence method : using the co occurrence method given in [ 1 ] to detect emotion causes . Uniterm LDA method : detecting concept level emotion causes but using a uniterm topic model to detect emotion topics . For experimental evaluation , we have 3 tagging volunteers manually label the emotion causes . Since users are always just care about the most important causes , we just evaluate top 10 results of each method on each emotion . After deduping of those causes , each annotator should give them integral scores between 1 and 5 , and finally we calculate the average . Ranking result of them will be used to get NDCG@k value and 10 causes with maximum scores are set to be the ‘right causes’ to get MAP value .
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
CECM Uniterm LDA method Co‐occurrence method
NDCG@3
NDCG@5
NDCG@10
MAP
Fig 2 . Evaluation results of comparing three methods
Fig 2 demonstrates the evaluation results , from which we can see CECM outperforms Co occurrence method and Uniterm topic method . The improvement is due to the effect of biterm topic model on analyzing short texts . In addition , two concept level methods perform better than co occurrence based mere word level method , this result proves that emotion is an abstract concept and detection of implicit emotion expressions is important . Table 2 gives some emotion cause detection result examples . We can see the most possible reasons for users’ esteem emotion include ‘nuclear power plant workers’ , ‘Japan self defense force’ and ‘rescue team’ , since they appeared calm and brave after the earthquake and nuclear leakage .
Table 2 . Emotion cause detection result examples nuclear power plant workers , self defense force , rescue team adopt orphans after the earthquake , the Libyan war
Emotions Emotion causes Esteem Sadness Sympathy nearby residents , evacuation , nuclear radiation Table 3 shows some ‘emoticon emotion’ relationship examples . Some surprising results exist such as that we may empirically think [ scold ] and [ anger ] can just express anger emotion , actually , in special events they can also express intense sadness . Based on manual observation , we roughly set p in formula ( 1 ) as 06
Table 3 . ‘Emotion Emoticon’ relationship examples
Emoticons [ lovely ] , [ fist ] , [ breeze ] , [ jostle ] , [ cult ] [ scold ] , [ anger ] , [ shocked ] , [ wave ] , [ orz ] [ sad ] , [ candle ] , [ handshaking ] , [ scared ] , [ sick ]
Emotions Esteem Sadness Sympathy 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK To the best of our knowledge , no other concept level emotion cause detection work has been done to date . In future work , we will design a new concept level emotion analysis model for key emotion detection from event related micro blogging corpus , and emotion cause tracking are also part of our future work . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Lee , S . , Chen , Y . , Huang , C R . , Li , S S . Detecting emotion causes with a linguistic rule based approach . Computational Intelligence .
[ 2 ] Zhang , H . , Yu , H . , Xiong , D . , Liu , Q . HHMM based Chinese lexical analyzer ICTCLAS . In second SIGHAN workshop on Chinese language processing , pp 184 187 .
[ 3 ] Li , D . , Shuai , X . , Sun , G . , Tang , J . , Ding , Y . , Luo , Z . Mining topic level opinion influence in microblog . In CIKM’12 .
[ 4 ] Yan , X . , Guo , J . , Lan , Y . , Cheng , X . 2013 . A biterm topic model for short texts . In WWW’13 , pp 1445–1456 .
[ 5 ] Zhao , W . , Jiang , J . , He , J . , Song , Y . , Achananuparp , P . , Lim , E P . , Li ,
X . Topical keyphrase extraction from twitter . In ACL’11 .
[ 6 ] Song , S . , Meng , Y . , Sun , J . Detecting keyphrases in microblogging with graph modeling of information diffusion , PRICAI’14 , pp 26 38 .
120
