Extracting knowledge from text using SHELDON , a
Semantic Holistic framEwork for LinkeD ONtology data
Diego Reforgiato Recupero , Andrea G . Nuzzolese , Sergio Consoli , Valentina Presutti ,
Silvio Peroni , Misael Mongiovì
National Research Council
ISTC/STLab
Italy diegoreforgiato@istccnrit , andreanuzzolese@istccnrit , sergioconsoli@istccnrit , valentinapresutti@istccnrit , silvioperoni@uniboit , misaelmongiovi@istccnrit
ABSTRACT SHELDON1 is the first true hybridization of NLP machine reading and the Semantic Web . It extracts RDF data from text using a machine reader : the extracted RDF graphs are compliant to Semantic Web and Linked Data . It goes further and applies Semantic Web practices and technologies to extend the current human readable web . The input is represented by a sentence in any language . SHELDON includes different capabilities in order to extend machine reading to Semantic Web data : frame detection , topic extraction , named entity recognition , resolution and coreference , terminology extraction , sense tagging and disambiguation , taxonomy induction , semantic role labeling , type induction , sentiment analysis , citation inference , relation and event extraction , nice visualization tools which make use of the JavaScript infoVis Toolkit and RelFinder . A demo of SHELDON can be seen and used at http://witistccnr it/stlab tools/sheldon .
Keywords Semantic Web ; Machine Reading ; Linked Data
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In order to extract knowledge from text , the Machine
Reading paradigm adopts Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) algorithms and methods . Machine reading is typically much less accurate than human reading , but can process massive amounts of text in reasonable time , can detect regularities hardly noticeable by humans , and its results can be reused by machines for applied tasks [ 5 ] . SHELDON performs a hybrid ( part of the components are trained , part are rulebased ) , self supervised variety of machine reading tasks that
1This project receives funding from the European Union ’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under Grant Agreement No 643808 .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW 2015 Companion , May 18–22 , 2015 , Florence , Italy . ACM 978 1 4503 3473 0/15/05 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/27409082742842 generates RDF graph representations out of the knowledge extracted from text by dedicated NLP tools . The produced graphs represent an extension and improvement of NLP output , and can be customized to target specific tasks . Several software modules successfully evaluated in the recent past [ 14 , 6 , 4 , 7 , 17 , 9 , 13 , 1 , 8 , 10 , 16 , 5 ] constitute the core components where SHELDON builds on top .
The machine reading capability of SHELDON is based on FRED [ 14 , 4 ] , a powerful component that automatically creates RDF/OWL graphs containing linked data from text . FRED integrates , transforms , improves , and abstracts the output of several NLP tools . Boxer [ 2 ] is a deep semantic parser that is called by FRED . Boxer includes a statistical parser ( C&C ) and generates Combinatory Categorial Grammar trees . Several heuristics are adopted in order to exploit existing lexical resources and gazetteers to generate representation structures according to Discourse Representation Theory ( DRT ) . The latter generates formal semantic representation of text through an event ( neo Davidsonian ) semantics . The basic NLP tasks performed by FRED by means of Boxer include : event detection ( DOLCE+DnS2 [ 3 ] is used by FRED ) , semantic role labeling with VerbNet3 and FrameNet roles , first order logic representation of predicateargument structures , logical operator scoping ( called boxing ) , modality detection , tense representation , entity recognition using TAGME4 , word sense disambiguation ( the next version is going to use BabelNet5 ) , DBpedia for expanding tacit knowledge extracted from text , etc . Everything is integrated and semantically enriched in order to provide a Semantic Web oriented reading of texts . FRED is also accessible by means of a Python API , namely fredlib6 . It exposes features for retrieving FRED graphs from user specified sentences , and managing them .
Uncovering the semantic meaning of hyperlinks has a huge impact on the knowledge that can be extracted from Web data and that can therefore be published in machine readable form . The correspondence with the natural language source can be maintained and this would further benefit the acquired knowledge . SHELDON integrates LEGALO [ 13 ] ,
2DOLCE+DnS Ultralite Ontology . ontologydesignpatternsorg/ont/dul/DULowl 3T . V . project . projects/verbnet.html 4http://tagmediunipiit/ 5http://babelnet.org/ 6http://witistccnrit/stlab tools/fred/fredlib http://verbscoloradoedu/mpalmer/ http://www . a novel method for revealing the semantics of links by identifying new semantic relations for them . Using a set of graph pattern based heuristics , LEGALO extracts from FRED graphs Semantic Web binary relations that capture well the semantics of the underlying links .
SHELDON is able to give a boost to the sentiment analysis practices [ 15 ] . One of its components is built on top of SENTILO [ 17 , 7 ] , an independent sentic computing approach which uses both natural language processing techniques and Semantic Web technologies . For a certain sentence expressing an opinion , SENTILO is able to identify its holder , to extract the topics and subtopics that the holder targets , to link them to related events or situations present in the text and to evaluate the sentiment expressed on each topic/subtopic . SENTILO uses a new ontology for opinion sentences , a new lexical resource that enables the evaluation of opinions expressed by means of events and situations , and a novel scoring algorithm for opinion sentences .
SHELDON also performs definitional taxonomy induction , integrating its result into the RDF graph of the text . The component for this task is based on T`IPALO [ 6 ] . T`IPALO analyses the Wikipedia page abstracts containing the natural language definition of entities and looks for the most appropriate type for them . T`IPALO relies on FRED for parsing and representing the logical form of a given sentence and induces a taxonomy by reusing WordNet types , WordNet supersenses , and DUL types .
Within academic communities , bibliographic citations earned a huge importance for linking scientific papers to related works , experiments , surveys , etc . SHELDON uses one more method to pursuit the task above . More in detail , SHELDON embeds CITALO [ 9 ] , a tool that exploits Semantic Web technologies and NLP techniques to automatically infer the purpose of citations . The input is represented by CiTO [ 12 ] , an ontology which describes the nature of citations in scientific research papers and a paragraph containing a reference to a bibliographic entity . CITALO relies on FRED to extract ontological information from the input sentence .
Besides the graph visualization ( displayed using Graphviz7 ) , and the triple output for each component , SHELDON provides a data exploration component , built on top of the Semantic Scout [ 1 ] , which uses the JavaScript InfoVis Toolkit8 . Finally , it is possible to get a much wider knowledge of the relations between detected DBpedia entities using a SHELDON component that is built upon the expansion algorithm described for RelFinder [ 8 ] and that shows further relations between the detected DBpedia entities .
SHELDON provides a REST API for each of its components so that everyone can build online end user applications that integrate , visualize , analyze , combine and infer the available knowledge at the desired level of granularity . Potentially , each stakeholder interested in semantic aggregate information for multilingual text could be a customer . A start up is going to be founded in UK which will exploit SHELDON ’s technology ( with only commerciallyviable components ) as one of its main cutting edge products ( we are currently solving some licensing issues ) .
7Graphviz Graph Visualization Software , http://www . graphviz.org/ 8http://philogbgithubio/jit/
2 . SHELDON AT WORK
Figure 1 shows the main interface of SHELDON where it is possible to insert some text in any language and select the semantic feature for processing the text . The output produced by SHELDON is in English no matter what the source language is . As the semantic core of SHELDON processes text using English , Bing Translation APIs9 are used to translate input text ( given in 47 possible languages ) in English .
Figure 1 : SHELDON front page
Figure 2 : SHELDON ’s navigation toolbar for identified DBpedia entities
The input text might be given in any of 47 different languages . If it is not English , there is an automatic language detection module10 that will identify the source language .
For example , the Italian sentence listed in Figure 1 would be correctly translated from : “ povero Mario , tu non conosci Firenze ma ti dir`o di pi`u su essa . ” to : “ poor Mario , you don’t know Florence but I’ll tell you more about it . ” SHELDON will work with the English representation of it . Besides , using the Google Chrome browser it is possible to use the Google Web Speech API recognition feature11 which would translate the spoken text in natural language text .
SHELDON addresses the following four main tasks : • If the user chooses to perform machine reading ( by pressing the button “ Ba ” of the toolbar cf . Figure 1 ) , an RDF output of the related text is shown . Several information such as detected DBpedia entities , events and situations mapped within DOLCE , WordNet and VerbNet mapping , pronoun resolution , and so on are displayed on the graph . Figure 4 shows a part of the graph produced by SHELDON for the example sentence and related to the machine reading component .
9http://wwwmicrosoftcom/web/post/ using the free bing translation apis 10It uses the Language Identification Engine of Apache Stanbol . 11https://wwwgooglecom/intl/en/chrome/demos/ speech.html
Figure 3 : Semantic sentiment analysis output for “ povero Mario , tu non conosci Firenze ma ti dir`o di pi`u su essa . ”
• If the user wants to perform sentiment analysis ( by pressing the button “ Z ” of the toolbar ) , the RDF graph will be augmented with annotations with concepts with respect to a defined sentiment analsys ontology and numerical scores for the negative adjective , poor , correctly associated to the entity Mario , and with an opinion score for the opinion trigger verb tell . Figure 3 shows the RDF output for the semantic sentiment analsys for the example sentence . If the sentence is more complex , sentiments may be propagated to entities depending on existing relations between them . Details on the sentiment propagation algorithm can be found in [ 17 ] .
• If the user wants to find all the relations between detected DBpedia entities of the input text , she will choose the relation discovery ( by pressing the button “ I ” of the toolbar ) . For the example sentence above , SHELDON would not return anything as the only DBpedia entity it recognizes is Florence . For sentences containing more than one DBpedia entities , SHELDON returns the relations between them . For example , the French sentence “ Matteo Renzi a ´et´e le premier citoyen de l’une des villes plus c´el`ebres de l’Italie , Florence . ” will be correctly translated in English and then feed to the system . A relation ( shown in Figure 5 ) will be returned by SHELDON for the pair of DBpedia entities ( Matteo Renzi , Italy ) .
• If the citation typing is chosen ( by pressing the button “ N ” of the toolbar ) , SHELDON processes the sentence as a citation context , ie , a piece of text containing an explicit citation ( marked as “ [ X ] ” in the text ) to a scholarly article . In this case SHELDON infers automatically the function of a citation by means of Semantic Web technologies , NLP and Sentiment Analysis techniques . The output is a property of the CiTO ontology12 [ 12 ] , which provides a set of 41 properties for describing the nature of citations in scientific research articles and other scholarly works .
Except for the citation typing task ( which returns a single property of the CiTO ontology ) , the SHELDON ’s user inter
12CiTO : http://purl.org/spar/cito face returns an interactive RDF graph that can be used by a user for browsing the knowledge resulting from the specific task . When clicking on each DBpedia entity node displayed in a graph , a pop up menu appears ( cf . Figure 2 ) . This menu allows a user to perform different actions , namely :
• visualization of an entity ’s page on DBpedia ; • exploratory search with Aemoo13 [ 10 ] starting from a given entity ;
• relation augmenting with [ 13 ] , which allows to discover new relations for a DBpedia entity by exploiting the outgoing links and the natural language available from the corresponding Wikipedia article ;
• typing information augmenting with T`IPALO [ 6 ] , which returns the most appropriate types for a given DBpedia entity by analyzing the natural language available from the corresponding Wikipedia abstract for such an entity . In particular , by clicking on the DBpedia entity , a new RDF graph composed of rdf:type , rdf:subclassOf , owl:sameAs , and owl:equivalentTo statements providing typing information is returned . These ones are aligned to the DBpedia Ontology , WordNet 3.0 in RDF , DUL , and DolceZero .
For the machine reading , the sentiment analysis and the relation finding capabilities it is possible to visualize the complete list of RDF triples ( syntactic constructs , offset between words and input sentence , URIs of recognized entities , text span markup specification support using EARMARK [ 11 ] , relations between source and translated text ) by choosing a view ( RDF/XML , RDF/JSON , Turtle , N3 , NT , DAG ) other than the Graphical View item which is set by default .
Within the options at the bottom of the produced graphs it is possible to export the graph as a PNG or JPEG image , in order to see the augmented knowledge for the identified DBpedia entities from SHELDON . This is obtained by using a nice GUI built on top of RelFinder which allows navigating the graph through a user friendly visualization tool that builds upon the Semantic Scout [ 1 ] and that uses the JavaScript InfoVis Toolkit . 13Aemoo : http://wwwaemooorg
Figure 4 : Machine reader output for the Italian text : “ povero Mario , tu non conosci Firenze ma ti dir`o di pi`u su essa . ”
[ 9 ] Iorio , A . D . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , and Peroni , S . Towards the automatic identification of the nature of citations . In SePublica ( 2013 ) , A . G . Castro , C . L . 0002 , P . W . Lord , and R . Stevens , Eds . , vol . 994 of CEUR Workshop Proceedings , CEUR WS.org , pp . 63–74 .
[ 10 ] Musetti , A . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , Draicchio , F . , Presutti , V . , Blomqvist , E . , Gangemi , A . , and Ciancarini , P . Aemoo : Exploratory search based on knowledge patterns over the semantic web . Semantic Web Challenge ( 2012 ) .
[ 11 ] Peroni , S . , Gangemi , A . , and Vitali , F . Dealing with markup semantics . In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Semantic Systems ( New York , NY , USA , 2011 ) , I Semantics ’11 , ACM , pp . 111–118 .
[ 12 ] Peroni , S . , and Shotton , D . Fabio and cito : ontologies for describing bibliographic resources and citations . Web Semantics : Science , Services and Agents on the World Wide Web 17 ( 2012 ) , 33–43 .
[ 13 ] Presutti , V . , Consoli , S . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , Reforgiato Recupero , D . , Gangemi , A . , Bannour , I . , and Zargayouna , H . Uncovering the semantics of wikipedia wikilinks . 19th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management ( EKAW 2014 ) .
[ 14 ] Presutti , V . , Draicchio , F . , and Gangemi , A . Knowledge extraction based on discourse representation theory and linguistic frames . In Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management , vol . 7603 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science . Springer Berlin Heidelberg , 2012 , pp . 114–129 .
[ 15 ] Presutti , V . , Stankovic , M . , Cambria , E . , Cantador , I . , Iorio , A . D . , Noia , T . D . , Lange , C . , Recupero , D . R . , and Tordai , A . , Eds . Semantic Web Evaluation Challenge SemWebEval 2014 at ESWC 2014 , Anissaras , Crete , Greece , May 25 29 , 2014 , Revised Selected Papers ( 2014 ) , vol . 475 of Communications in Computer and Information Science , Springer .
[ 16 ] Recupero , D . R . , Consoli , S . , Gangemi , A . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , and Spampinato , D . A semantic web based core engine to efficiently perform sentiment analysis . In The Semantic Web : ESWC 2014 Satellite Events ESWC 2014 Satellite Events , Anissaras , Crete , Greece , May 25 29 , 2014 , Revised Selected Papers ( 2014 ) , pp . 245–248 .
[ 17 ] Reforgiato Recupero , D . , Presutti , V . , Consoli , S . , Gangemi , A . , and Nuzzolese , A . G . Sentilo : Frame based sentiment analysis . Cognitive Computation , in press ( 2014 ) .
Figure 5 : Semantic link identification for the French sentence “ Matteo Renzi a ´et´e le premier citoyen de l’une des villes plus c´el`ebres de l’Italie , Florence . ”
References [ 1 ] Baldassarre , C . , Daga , E . , Gangemi , A . , Gliozzo , A . M . , Salvati , A . , and Troiani , G . Semantic scout : Making sense of organizational knowledge . In EKAW ( 2010 ) , P . Cimiano and H . S . Pinto , Eds . , vol . 6317 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Springer , pp . 272–286 .
[ 2 ] Bos , J . Wide coverage semantic analysis with boxer . In Proceedings of the 2008 Conference on Semantics in Text Processing ( Stroudsburg , PA , USA , 2008 ) , STEP ’08 , Association for Computational Linguistics , pp . 277–286 .
[ 3 ] Gangemi , A . What ’s in a schema ? Cambridge University Press ,
Cambridge , UK ( 2010 ) , 144–182 .
[ 4 ] Gangemi , A . A comparison of knowledge extraction tools for the semantic web . In ESWC ( 2013 ) , P . Cimiano , O . Corcho , V . Presutti , L . Hollink , and S . Rudolph , Eds . , vol . 7882 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Springer , pp . 351–366 .
[ 5 ] Gangemi , A . , Draicchio , F . , Presutti , V . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , and Recupero , D . R . A machine reader for the semantic web . In International Semantic Web Conference ( Posters & Demos ) ( 2013 ) , E . Blomqvist and T . Groza , Eds . , vol . 1035 of CEUR Workshop Proceedings , CEUR WS.org , pp . 149–152 .
[ 6 ] Gangemi , A . , Nuzzolese , A . G . , Presutti , V . , Draicchio , F . , Musetti , A . , and Ciancarini , P . Automatic typing of dbpedia entities . In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on The Semantic Web Volume Part I ( Berlin , Heidelberg , 2012 ) , ISWC’12 , Springer Verlag , pp . 65–81 .
[ 7 ] Gangemi , A . , Presutti , V . , and Recupero , D . R . Frame based detection of opinion holders and topics : A model and a tool . IEEE Comp . Int . Mag . 9 , 1 ( 2014 ) , 20–30 .
[ 8 ] Heim , P . , Hellmann , S . , Lehmann , J . , Lohmann , S . , and Stegemann , T . RelFinder : Revealing relationships in RDF knowledge bases . In Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Semantic and Media Technologies ( SAMT ) ( 2009 ) , vol . 5887 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Springer , pp . 182–187 .
