An Architecture for Personal
Semantic Web Information Retrieval System
Haibo Yu
Graduate School of
Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Kyushu University
6 1 Kasuga Koen , Kasuga Fukuoka 816 8580 , Japan yu@aliskyushu uacjp
Kyushu University
6 1 Kasuga Koen , Kasuga Fukuoka 816 8580 , Japan mine@aliskyushu uacjp
Tsunenori Mine
Makoto Amamiya
Faculty of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Faculty of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
Kyushu University
6 1 Kasuga Koen , Kasuga Fukuoka 816 8580 , Japan amamiya@aliskyushu uacjp
ABSTRACT The semantic Web and Web service technologies have provided both new possibilities and challenges to automatic information processing . There are a lot of researches on applying these new technologies into current personal Web information retrieval systems , but no research addresses the semantic issues from the whole life cycle and architecture point of view . Web services provide a new way for accessing Web resources , but until now , they have been managed separately from traditional Web contents resources . In this poster , we propose a conceptual architecture for a personal semantic Web information retrieval system . It incorporates semantic Web , Web services and multi agent technologies to enable not only precise location of Web resources but also the automatic or semi automatic integration of hybrid Web contents and Web services .
Categories and Subject Descriptions : H40 [ Information Systems ] : Information Systems Applications D211 [ Software Engineering ] : Software Architectures
General Terms : Design , Management
Keywords : Semantic Web , Web Services , Web Portal , Information Retrieval System
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Since the information overload , Web information retrieval systems are facing new challenges for helping people not only locating relevant information precisely but also accessing and aggregating a variety of information from different resources automatically .
With semantic Web technology , Web information can be given well defined meaning which can be understood and processed by machines . It provides new possibilities for automatic Web information processing .
Currently , there are a lot of researches such as TAP [ 1 ] and Haystack [ 2 ] , which are trying to apply semantic Web technologies into personal Web information retrieval systems . However , they only addressed the problems concerning certain phases or certain aspects of what they involved , none of
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . them addressed the semantic issues from the whole life cycle of information retrieval and architecture point of view .
The Web services mechanisms provide a good solution for application interoperability between heterogeneous environments . Though it is mainly used for business processes until now , we can predicate that Web services will soon be used by Web portals for information gathering , displaying and delivering , and will play a vital role on Web information retrieval activities . However , the traditional “ Web contents ” and new “ Web services ” have been managed separately for their publishing , discovering , accessing , and processing , and there isn’t any personal Web information retrieval system managed them all together until now .
2 . APPROACH
In this poster , we propose our conceptual architecture for a personal semantic Web information retrieval system based on the following three main ideas .
First , “ all participants contribute for the semantic description consistently ” . As we know that efficient searching for high quality result is based on a pertinent matching between well defined resources and user queries , where the matching reflects user preferences , all participants ( consumer , provider , and mediator ) need to contribute to the semantic description consistently . The user needs to describe their requirements and the provider needs to describe their capabilities precisely as well . The mediator needs to ensure that semantics are not lost sight of during the processing and guarantee the semantic interoperability by ontology mapping if necessary . A multi agent system will function as the mediator in our architecture .
Second , “ integrating Web contents with Web services ” . In the semantic Web , contents are given well defined meaning , both Web contents and Web services can be consumed by machines , so they have the common ground to be managed together . On the other hand , Web users generally only care about final results , not realization details , hence an integrated or unified management of Web contents and Web services need to be carried out through different levels including the descripiton of capabilities and requirements , querying , discovering , accessing and aggregation .
Third , “ providing a gateway to all information that the user is interested in ” . Users need to access and process a variety of internal and external information based on their
974 ing for different levels . For the detail of our Web site capability description mechanism , one can refer to document[3 ] . 3.2 “ Myportal ”
“ Myportal ” is composed of three main functional components : core component , consumer component and provider component . The core component provides basic support for semantic technologies and information management . It consists of “ Knowledge Base ( KB ) ” , “ Query Engine ( QE ) ” and “ Inference Engine ( IE ) ” . As a consumer , it consists of a user interface , user profile , consumer search agent components and bring together a variety of necessary information from different resources for the user . The semantic Web contents and the outputs of Web services based on the common domain ontology will be integrated , saved and reused in “ Myportal ” . As a provider , the contents and services of “ Myportal ” can be consumed by humans as well as machines . The human can be the user her/himself or other permitted persons , and the machine can be local or remote . The interfaces for browsing , searching and facilitating Web contents and services need to be provided . For the detail of our “ Myportal ” description , one can refer to document [ 4 ] . 3.3 Mediator
The mediator consists of a consumer search agent ( CSA ) and provider search agents ( PSA ) . The CSA receives the requirements from the user interface agent , breaks and transforms the requirements into formal queries based on user preferences , communicates with relevant agents , selects and invokes Web services , integrates the information and sends the results back to the user interface agent . The PSA receives queries from a CSA and returns matching results to the CSA based on different preferences and requirements . The information in GID and WCD such as a category can be used for Web services discovery and selection .
The semantic interoperability can be realized by using a common domain ontology or through ontology mapping . We think it is reasonable to define a common domain ontology for the communication between the CSA and the PSAs and enable the CSA and PSAs to do ontology mapping for a consumer and providers to the common ontology respectively if necessary .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this poster , we addressed the main aspects of a semantic Web information retrieval system architecture trying to answer the requirements of the next generation semantic Web user . In the future , we would like to further detail the components and interfaces , and implement a prototype to reveal the possibility and effectiveness of our proposed architecture .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Guha , R . McCool , and E . Miller . Semantic search . In
Proceedings of WWW2003 , pages 700–709 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] D . Quan and D . R . Karger . How to make a semantic web browser . In Proceedings of WWW2004 , pages 255–265 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] H . Yu , T . Mine , and M . Amamiya . Towards automatic discovery of web portals semantic description of web portal capabilities . In Semantic Web Services and Web Process Composition : First International Workshop , SWSWPC 2004 , July 6 , 2004 , LNCS 3387/2005 , pages 124–136 . [ 4 ] H . Yu , T . Mine , and M . Amamiya . Towards a semantic myportal . In The 3rd International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC 2004 ) Poster Abstracts , pages 95–96 , 2004 .
Figure 1 : A Conceptual Architecture preferences , not only the information from the Web but also the information created and managed by themselves . So a gateway to all relevant information is necessary . Web portals are trying to provide such functions as gateways . However , “ no one size can fit all ” , and personalization for the specific user is strongly required . Currently many Web portals have provided personalization such as “ my yahoo ” , “ my AOL ” , but their functions are limited as they lack semantics and separation from the user ’s local information . Therefore a Web portal which is owned and managed by the specific user , located on the user ’s local desktop or local network , and constructed based on semantic Web technology is necessary for satisfying the requirements of a user to all his relevant information . That is what we called “ Myportal ” [ 4 ] . It is just like a compact portal with many more personalization functionalities .
3 . A CONCEPTUAL ARCHITECTURE
Our conceptual architecture of personal semantic Web information retrieval system can be illustrated as shown in Figure 1 .
Each provider describes their capabilities in what we call a WSCD ( Web Site Capability Description ) and is assigned a PSA ( Provider Search Agent ) . Each consumer describes user ’s requirements including his preferences . It is assigned a consumer search agent ( CSA ) and also has a user interface agent ( UIA ) for providing an intelligent unified interface to the user . The CSA and PSA will function as mediators between the consumer and the provider as they communicate with each other to fulfill the searching and accessing task . The consumer is constructed as a “ Myportal ” providing a gateway to all relevant information . 3.1 Web site capability description ( WSCD )
We describe the capabilities of a Web site by layers . First , we semantically describe the general capabilities of the Web site , and we call this a “ general information description ( GID ) ” . Second , we give its Web contents capability description ( WCD ) and Web service capability description ( WSD ) . There are links from GID to WCD and WSD in order to facilitate the further matching and use of Web contents and Web services . In order to semantically describe the capabilities and support the concrete realization of services , we express the service capability description in two layers : “ semantic Web service description ” and “ concrete Web service description ” . This hierarchical capability describing mechanism enables semantic capability describing and matchmak
975
