Application Networking on Peer to peer Networks
Mu Su , Chi Hung Chi
School of Computing
National University of Singapore
3 Science Drive 2 , Singapore 117543 {sumu,chich}@compnusedusg
ABSTRACT This paper proposes the AN.P2P architecture to facilitate efficient peer to peer content delivery with heterogeneous presentation requirements . In general , the AN.P2P enables a peer to deliver the original content objects and an associated workflow to other peers . The workflow is composed of content adaptation tasks . Hence , the recipient can reuse the original object to generate appropriate presentations for other peers . Categories and Subject Descriptors C25 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : Local and Wide Area Networks Internet ; I63 [ Simulation and Modeling ] : Applications
General Terms Design , Performance , Experimentation
Keywords Application Networking , Peer to peer content distribution object and the uniform adaptation workflow . Hence , if we allow the peers to deliver the original object and an associated content adaptation workflow , the recipient peers would be able to reuse the object to generate the appropriate presentations . 2 . ARCHITECTURE
The architecture of the AN.P2P platform is shown in figure 1 . Any peer can install the platform on top of its peer to peer routing substrate . The AN.P2P Proc . is the central process of the AN.P2P platform ; the AN.P2P Storage is used to store and manage the original content authored on this peer ; the AN.P2P Cache is used to cache the retrieved object replicas and the associated workflow ; and the ANlet Pool is used to store mobile applications , each of which performs a particular content adaptation task . In AN.P2P platform , we defined a standard mobile application interface , ANlet . Applications that implement this interface can be loaded dynamically by the AN.P2P peers .
1 . INTRODUCTION
In recent years , peer to peer systems witness more heterogeneous service requirements due to the emergence of diverse user devices . However , conventional peer to peer file sharing applications cannot effectively deal with these requirements due to the lack of system support for content adaptation . For instance , a piece of high quality media content shared by a desktop peer can not be easily rendered on a smart phone peer because of its limited processing capability .
A suggested solution is to allow the home peer , which publishes the content , to adapt the content presentation before it is sent to the requesting peer . The retrieved object presentation will be shared by the peer . However , the main drawback of this method is that the fully adapted presentation has significantly reduced reusability for other peers with different presentation requirements . In particular , the reduction of peer sharing benefit could cause longer query forwarding path or even the query failure . In addition , on the proximity aware routing substrates , the prolonged query path implies longer transmission distance for the response object .
This paper proposes the architecture of Application Networking on peer to peer ( AN.P2P ) to facilitate efficient peerto peer file sharing for heterogeneous presentation requirements . The key idea of this study came from the observation that despite of the heterogeneous requirements for content presentations , the processes to generate the presentations are homogeneous . It means that different presentations are generated from the same original
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
To publish a piece of content , the content provider inserts the original object and an associated workflow to the home peer . The workflow is composed by multiple content adaptation tasks , each
Figure 1 Structure of AN.P2P on a single peer node
The general operations of the AN.P2P network are illustrated in figure 2 . query msg replication msg
P2
P3
ANlet downloading response msg query msg
P1 query msg
P0
Figure 2 General operations of AN.P2P
1134 can adapt the media quality and generate the correct watermark to other peers .
We measure the performance of the two methods above in a network of 256 peers and 1024 published media contents . The user requests follow the Zipf like distribution with λ=07 The simulation results are given in figure 3 and 4 respectively .
Figure 3 presents the average query hops under different peer cache size . The result shows that the AN.P2P method can help to reduce the average query hops due to the reuse of original object replicas . In contrast , the plain peer to peer method cannot benefit from peer sharing because the final response objects have little reusability .
Average Query Hops plain
AN.P2P
3.8 3.6 3.4 3.2 3 2.8 2.6 2.4 2.2 2 s p o H
0
50
100
150
200
Peer Cache Size ( MB )
Figure 3 Average query hops of which needs to be instantiated with a particular ANlet . The workflow also provides the URLs from which the relevant ANlets can be retrieved .
Upon receiving a query for the content , the home peer will generate the appropriate content presentation according to the requesting peer ’s presentation profile carried in the query message . The generated presentation is sent directly to the requesting peer within a response message . In addition , the home peer can select an intermediate peer to replicate the original object and the associated workflow . The replication message will be cached by the selected peer .
When this intermediate peer receives a new query for the same content , it can retrieve the object from the local cache . According the URL supplied by the associated workflow , the peer downloads the ANlets to instantiate the workflow tasks . Then the peer inputs the object to the workflow to generate the content presentation for the new requesting peer . Finally , the downloaded ANlets will be stored in the application pool for later reuse .
Therefore , the original content object and the workflow can be populated within the network to serve peers with various presentation requirements .
Theoretically , the AN.P2P platform is not mandatory to be installed on each peer . When an AN.P2P peer delivers object to an ordinary peer , it sends an appropriate content presentation as if the AN.P2P mechanism was transparent to the peer . In contrast , when an AN.P2P peer replicates to another AN.P2P peer , it can send the original object and the associated workflow . We believe this back compatibility feature could facilitate the adoption of AN.P2P mechanism into existed peer to peer networks . 3 . PERFORMANCE
An AN.P2P prototype has been implemented based on the Pastry structured substrate [ 1 ] . We verify the effectiveness of the AN.P2P using an emulated P2P DRM service [ 2 ] . It supplies copyrighted media contents to peers on the PC , the PDA or the smart phone .
When authoring a piece of content , the content provider first secures the original media object using an encryption key . Then the content provider encapsulates the secured object and an associated P2P DRM workflow in a XML container , which is published on its home peer and any peer can download it freely . To render the content , the client ’s media player needs to retrieve a license that supplies the key to disclose the secured object .
The P2P DRM workflow is composed by two ANlets . Each of them contains the key to decrypt the associated object , transform it , and write it back securely using the key . The first ANlet can trim the original media object to a thinner version according to the type of the recipient device . In particular , the peers resided on PC can render the full quality media content , while the peers on PDA or the smart phone can only render partial quality content . The second ANlet inserts the watermark into the response media object . It uses the certificate of the requesting peer to generate the watermark . Hence , the recipient of the media content can be traced using its embedded watermark . Any unauthorized broadcasting of this content will be detected by scanning its embedded watermark .
We simulate a plain peer to peer network by restricting both ANlets to the home peer of each content . In this case , all queries need to be forwarded to the home peer of the requested content , because the watermarked content is not authorized to be sent to other peers . However , in the AN.P2P network , we allow the original object and associated workflow to be replicated to the PC and the PDA based peers . By executing the ANlets , these peers
Figure 4 shows the multiplication of the size of response object and the corresponding distance between the source and the target peer . The figure shows the AN.P2P method significantly outperforms the plain method . When the peer cache size reaches 80MB , the size*dist value of the AN.P2P method is only 60 % to that of the plain method . This implies the AN.P2P can help to reduce the user perceived latency of downloading the objects . that
Size * Distance plain
AN.P2P s n o i l l i
M t s i D * e z i S
7
6.5 6
5.5 5
4.5 4
0
100
50 Peer Cache Size ( MB )
150
200
Figure 4 Response cost
In summary , the simulation results show that the AN.P2P method can effectively improve the overall system performance due to the reuse of original objects and the associated content adaptation workflow . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Rowstron , P . Druschel , “ Pastry : Scalable , Decentralized Object Location and Routing for Large scale Peer to peer Systems ” , Proceeding of the 18th IFIP/ACM International Conference of Distributed Systems Platforms , Nov . 2001 .
[ 2 ] W . Ku , C H . Chi , “ Survey on the Technological Aspects of the 7th
Digital Rights Management ” , Proceeding of Information Security Conference , 2004 .
1135
