Service Discovery and Measurement based on DAML QoS
Ontology
Chen Zhou
Center for Multimedia &
Network Technology
Nanyang Technological
University
Liang Tien Chia
Center for Multimedia &
Network Technology
Nanyang Technological
University
Bu Sung Lee
Center for Multimedia &
Network Technology
Nanyang Technological
University pg04878518@ntuedusg asltchia@ntuedusg ebslee@ntuedusg
ABSTRACT As more and more Web services are deployed , Web service ’s discovery mechanisms become essential . Similar services can have quite different QoS behaviors . For service selection and management purpose , it is necessary to clearly specify QoS constraints and metrics definitions for Web services . We investigate on the semantic QoS specification and introduce our design principles on it . Based on the specification refinement and conformance , we introduce the QoS matchmaking algorithm with multiple matching degrees . The matchmaking prototype is designed to prove the feasibility . Welldefined Metrics can be further utilized by measurement organizations to monitor and evaluate the promised service level objectives .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Online Information Services ] : Web based services ; D28 [ Software Engineering ] : Metrics Performance measures
General Terms Languages , Performance , Measurement
Keywords Web Service Discovery , QoS , Semantic Web , Matchmaking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the industry ’s efforts in promoting the use of Web services , a huge number of Web services are being developed and made available on the web . Service requesters are presented with a choice of service offers that provide similar functions . Different offers may have quite different quality of service ( QoS ) . To find the service with certain QoS , it requires more sophisticated patterns of service discovery and negotiation . Take dynamic supply chain for example , normally the retailer is tightly integrated with supplier because of high integration cost . However , it is ideal for the retailer to integrate a number of suppliers in their processes and dynamically choose the suppliers based on their response time , availability , cost , and so forth , to achieve the competitive advantage . In this scenario the QoS specification is critical .
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
As to the service discovery , current service discovery process adopts keyword matching technology to locate the published Web services . This matchmaking is based at syntax level . The returned discovery result may not satisfy the service requester ’s intended requirements . This leads to a bit of manual work for choosing the proper service according to its semantics . To make Web service discovery , composition , and cooperation more dynamic , automatic and across enterprise boundaries , it requires domain specific knowledge .
The semantic web technology is a promising solution for automatic service discovery process . It requires that data be not only machine readable , but also machine understandable . With the help of Semantic Web , unifying system among different partners can be created with minimum misunderstanding . DAML S Ontology [ 2 ] ( now OWL S ) is one of the semantic research group ’s efforts for Web services . DAML S aims to enable automated Web service discovery , invocation , composition and monitoring . However , the specification has not provided a detailed set of classes , properties and constraints to represent QoS descriptions[1 ] . We have tried to develop a proper QoS Ontology design pattern for the formal specification of QoS constraints and QoS metrics as a complement to the DAML S . This novel QoS Ontology is based on DAML+OIL and named DAML QoS . As a following step of the DAML S service profile ’s matchmaking , our work facilitates the QoS selection between services with similar functions . The metric Ontologies can also provide a powerful solution for measurement organization to monitor against the agreed upon SLAs . For the purpose of clarity and compactness , in this paper we will use the Description Logic ( DL ) notions in place of the DAML+OIL syntax for the instruction .
We organize the rest of this paper in the following way . In section 2 the design of the DAML QoS Ontology is presented . Then section 3 introduces the conformance definition and matchmaking algorithm for the system . Section 4 briefly introduces the measurement framework of the system .
2 . MODELING
Our Ontology can be viewed as a design pattern to model the QoS constraint information in the DL style . It contains three layers : the QoS profile layer designed for matchmaking purpose ; the QoS property definition layer for defining the property and elaborating the property ’s domain and range constraints ; the metrics layer for metrics definition
1070 and measurement . DAML QoS is designed as a complement Ontology to provide additional QoS information for DAML S . It mainly deals with the non functional aspect of the system . Non functional aspect of the system describes the constraints such as the Quality of Service , management statements , security policies , pricing information , and other contracts between Web services . We have chosen the following design principles : the specification should be easy to use and understand ; it should be precise and flexibly ; reuse is in Object Oriented style ; automatic validation is preferred ; the design duties is separated among developers and measurement parties .
In our Ontology design , the QoS Profile Layer defines the Service Level Objective ( SLO ) for the Web service interface . Cardinality constraints are added in the concept definition to represent the QoS constraints ; QoS property definition layer constrains the property ’s domain and range information . Each property ’s domain is defined as the QoSProfile class or its subclasses . The range of the property is defined as one QoS metric class . Each Web service ’s QoS profile is defined by the conjunction of these property constraints . DL reasoner can utilize these restrictions to classify the relationship between different profiles ; QoS Metrics Layer provides the QoS metrics definition for the QoS property ’s range constraints . It also defines precise semantic meanings for service measurement partner to measure the service and check against the guarantee .
By defining and sharing new properties and QoS metrics , flexibility of the specification can be achieved . The reuse of the specification is supported by refining the specification in Object Oriented Style . The refinement result is the conjunction of the original specification and the new constraints . It replaces the weaker constraints with new stronger ones . DAML QoS Ontology complements DAML S . Developers can benefits from DAML S for semantic matchmaking of service capability , as well as the well defined process model and the grounding information . Meanwhile , the developer benefits from DAML QoS for QoS matchmaking and QoS measurement . Multiple QoS Profile individuals of one Web service can refer to the same DAML S’ service profile individual . This provides multiple service level objectives for the targeted Web service .
3 . MATCHMAKING
Constraint conformance is defined as follows : QoS profile P conforms to QoS profile Q iff P is stronger than , or equally strong as , Q . In DAML QoS , the conformance checking problem is converted to the Ontology ’s subsumption problem . P conforms to Q iff Q ’s concept definition subsumes P ’s concept definition . According to the conformance definition , the matchmaking algorithm between service requester and service provider is defined accordingly . For the request R and advertisement A , Subsume ( A v R ) , Exact ( R A ) , PlugIn ( R v A ) , Intersection ( :(A u R v ?) ) , and Disjoint(A u R v ?)[3 ] are from the best matching degree to the worst matching degree respectively .
Figure 1 shows the system design of our matchmaking prototype . When the service provider publishes their service QoS profile through the publish interface , the Ontology will be parsed by the Jena parser first . If the parsing process ends successfully , the Ontology is stored in the server ’s Ontology repository . Meanwhile the Ontology is also loaded into the main memory and represented in the form of the
OilEd ’s Ontology data structure . This Ontology data is then rendered into Racer ’s description through a special Racer Render . Now we have finished the parsing and the converting process of the Ontology . The Racer engine accepts this KRSS description and keeps this in its own knowledge base . By classifying on its knowledge base , the Racer engine organizes the Ontologies’ taxonomy . The system is now ready for inquiry . When the service requester submits an inquiry , the matchmaker will return the Subsume , Exact , PlugIn , and Intersection matching list respectively . The experiment shows that the matchmaking is suitable for small or middle sized advertisement repository .
Matching Ontology
List
Result
Reasoner
S S R K
DAML QoS
Ontology
Inquiry convertor
DAML QoS Ontologies
Publish
L M A D
Ontology Repository l e u d o M g n k a m h c t a M i
Figure 1 : Matchmaker System Prototype
The validation of the specification is necessary for big projects . The syntax of the specification is evaluated by the Ontology parser , such as Jena . The semantic correctness of the specification is checked according to the matchmaking algorithm . If the specification is equivalent to ? concept , there ’s contradict in the specification and it is recognized as a semantic error .
4 . MEASUREMENT FRAMEWORK
The measurement framework is maintained by the measurement partner to guarantee the agreement . In our prototype implementation , measurement codes are implemented as service handlers to minimize the influence on the original Web service system . According to the metrics’ concept definitions and their individual definitions , the measurement code can be generated by traversing the metrics definition tree . A summary collector creates the summary QoS profile according to the received handlers’ data . Furthermore , it will judge whether the summary QoS profile conforms to the agreed QoS profile .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Cardoso , A . Sheth , and J . Miller . Workflow Quality of Service . In Proceedings of the International Conf . on Enterprise Integration and Modeling Technology and International Enterprise Modeling , 2002 .
[ 2 ] DAML S Coalition . DAML S : Web Service Description for the Semantic Web . In Proc . International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC 02 ) , 2002 .
[ 3 ] C . Zhou , L T Chia , and B S Lee . DAML QoS
Ontology for Web Services . In International Conference on Web Services ( ICWS04 ) , pages 472{479 , 2004 .
1071
