Representing Personal Web Information Using a Topic Oriented Interface*
Zhigang Hua2 , Hao Liu3 , Xing Xie1 , Hanqing Lu2 , Wei Ying Ma1
1Microsoft Research Asia
5/F Sigma Center , No . 49 , Zhichun Road , Beijing , 100080 , PR China
+86 10 62617711
2Institute of Automation
Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing , 100080 , PR China
+86 10 62542971
{zghua , luhq}@nlpriaaccn
{xingx,wyma}@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT Nowadays , Web activities have become daily practice for people . It is therefore essential to organize and present this continuously increasing Web information in a more usable manner . In this paper , we developed a novel approach to reorganize personal Web information as a topic oriented interface . In our approach , we proposed to utilize anchor , title and URL information to represent content information for the browsed Web pages rather than the content body . Furthermore , we explored three methods to organize personal Web information : 1 ) top down statistical clustering ; 2 ) salience phrase based clustering ; and 3 ) support vector machine ( SVM ) based classification . Finally , we conducted a usability study to verify the effectiveness of our proposed solution . The experimental results demonstrated that users could visit the pages that have been browsed previously more easily with our approach than existing solutions . Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Communications Applications – Information browsers ; General Terms : Design , Human Factors Keywords : Personal Web information , clustering , topic classfication , user information mining , user interface
1 . INTRODUCTION Nowadays , people have easy access to the World Wide Web and Web activities go pervasively into daily life . Consequently , the information on the past Web activity continues increasing . The personal Web information is valuable for individuals , as is shown by many studies that there exist common needs for users to revisit a site or a page that has been visited previously [ 3 ] . Revisitation support is commonly provided by the current Web browsers such as Microsoft Internet Explorer , Opera Explorer and so on , in forms of history , bookmarks , URL auto completion , address bar menu , and back and forward buttons [ 3 ] . However , they either require manual maintenance or lack a convenient interface . This is far from being satisfactory for users in some circumstances . For example , users want to search for similar pages from past Web information with a specific topic . Such a task
* This work was done when Z . Hua and H . Liu were interns at Microsoft
Research Asia .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
3Dept of Information Engineering Chinese University of Hong Kong
Shatin , Hong Kong
+852 98359692 hliu@cuhkeduhk becomes more tedious when the Web information volume increases with daily Web activities . The issue is then raised on how to represent such a large volume of personal Web information in a more usable interface . To our knowledge , few existing works have involved the issue of organizing the large volume of personal Web information using a topic oriented interface . In this paper , we developed a novel scheme which reorganized Web information as a topic oriented interface . We investigated three methods to represent users’ Web information : 1 ) top down statistical clustering ; 2 ) salience phrase based clustering ; and 3 ) support vector machine based classification . We conducted a usability study to verify the effectiveness of our new approach . 2 . A TOPIC ORIENTED APPROACH In this section , we first present our method to represent the content information of Web pages , namely anchor , title and URL . We then describe two representation styles to organize the personal Web information as a topic oriented interface , namely the clustering and classification approaches . 2.1 Content Information There exist multiple types of representations for a Web document as shown in [ 4 ] . These representations typically contain titles , anchor texts , URLs , and main body texts . A title provides the main idea and the brief explanation of a Web document . An anchor text provides the description of linked Web documents and files . It was pointed out that anchor text often provides more accurate description of a Web document than the document itself . We don’t adopt content body as a kind of source information in our method . The reasons are multifold : 1 ) content body may contain privacy or security information , such as e commerce account information , email login information , etc ; 2 ) content body of a Web page often contains noise information , such as advertisements , etc . Although there exist many studies involving noise elimination such as page segmentation , they usually cause processing overload and increase time complexity ; 3 ) content body contains vast texts that will increase processing load ; and 4 ) Web objects with multimedia or others type have no text body besides binary stream . Above all , we believe anchor , title and URL information are sufficient to describe content information . 2.2 Representation Metrics In this sub section , we propose three methods , ie SVM based classification , top down statistical clustering , and salience phrase ranking based clustering to organize personal Web information .
1142 221 SVM based Classification ( SVM ) SVM is a powerful learning method [ 2 ] . It is well founded in terms of computational learning theory and has been successfully applied to text categorization [ 2 ] . In our implementation , the feature of each document is selected as the word weight vector that is specified by the mixture model described above . The topic classifier employs the linear support vector machine to assign each page a probability of being in each category . We took the most likely category as the topic of the page . We collected the category from the Yahoo! Directory page , which is available in the URL of http://diryahoocom/ 222 Clustering Clustering methods don’t require pre defined categories as in classification methods . Thus , they are more adaptive for various queries . It has been proved that organizing Web search results into clusters facilitates users’ quick browsing through search results . Since it enable users to identify their required group at a glance . In our work , we explored two clustering methods : 1 ) top down statistical clustering ; and 2 ) salience phrase based ranking . Top Down Statistical Clustering ( Top ) . We adopted Crabtree and Soltysiak ’s vector space clustering model [ 1 ] , where each document is represented as a vector of term weights . The weight of a term i in a document j is calculated according to the mixture model . In our work , we sum the wi,j scores of all documents in each cluster and adopt the top twelve most highly scoring terms to present these words as the “ essence ” of interests . Cluster vectors use the summing wi,j scores of top 12 terms , and the same clustering technique is applied on the cluster vectors to produce “ theme vectors ” . These represent the overall themes of interests that a user might have , and probably align reasonably well with keywords that a user might give to present his/her interests . Salience Phrase Based Clustering ( Sal ) . We also take a new method called salience phrase clustering proposed by Zeng [ 5 ] to organize the browsed Web pages . This method generates short and readable cluster names , which enable users to quickly identify the topic of a specified cluster . Further , the clusters are ranked according to their salience scores , thus the more likely a cluster required by users , the higher it ranks . 2.3 Document Group Visualization set of items and the number of these items . For each item in a group , we use its anchor text ( or title if anchor text is not available ) and URL to represent it .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATIONS We set the methods that organize Web information according to the visiting time ( time ) and Web site ( site ) as the baseline , to evaluate the various representations generated by our topicoriented approach . In our study , we added an additional pane so as to elicit feedback of different methods whenever the user viewed the representations on a simple rating principle , reflecting how “ pleased ” the user was with the representation results , ranging from 1 , ie “ not pleased at all ” up to 5 , ie “ very pleased ” . We average the users’ feedback in Table 1 . The results are also straightforward : 1 ) the baselines that generate time sorted or siteoriented representation is lowly rated with an average score of 2.79 and 2.32 respectively ; 2 ) two clustering representations , sal and top , are rated with a higher score , 3.13 and 3.35 respectively ; 3 ) svm is ranked with the lowest score of 2.08 , because most of a users’ Web information tends to fall into one or several fixed categories . The users’ qualitative evaluations on our new approach indicated that users felt more pleased with our method .
Table 1 . The evaluation of various representation methods
Methods
Site Time SVM Sal Top score 2.32 2.79 2.08 3.13 3.35
4 . CONCLUSIONS We developed a novel approach to reorganize personal Web activity information in a more usable topic oriented interface . We investigated three methods to represent users’ Web information : 1 ) top down statistical clustering ; 2 ) salience phrase based clustering ; and 3 ) support vector machine ( SVM ) based classification . Experimental results demonstrated that personal Web information can be better organized in our solution . Users felt that topicoriented clustering representation can facilitate the access to past Web information in comparison with the existing solutions .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Foner L . A multi agent referral system for matchmaking . Proc . of the 1st Int . Conf . on the Practical Applications of Agents and Multi Agent Systems , London , UK , 1996 . Joachims T . Text categorization with support vector machines : learning with many relevant features . Proc . of the 10th ECML , Chemnitz , Germany , April 1998 .
[ 2 ]
[ 3 ] Milic Frayling N . , Jones R . , Rodden K . , Smyth G . ,
Blackwell A . F . and Sommerer , R . Smartback : supporting users in back navigation . Proc . of the 13th International World Wide Web Conference , New York , USA , May 2004 . [ 4 ] Westerveld T . , Kraaij W . , and Hiemstra D . Retrieving Web pages using content , links , urls and anchors . In Text REtrieval Conference ( TREC 10 ) , pages 663–672 , 2001 .
[ 5 ] Zeng HJ , He QC , Chen , Z . , Ma , WY , and Ma . J .
Learning to Cluster Web Search Results . Proc . Of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Sheffield , UK , July 2004 .
Figure 1 . An example for a start page
We apply our approach to present a start page in Web browser to facilitate user ’s navigation and revisitation . Incidentally , we take the topic oriented groups generated by the salience phrase based clustering method as an example in the following description . As shown in Figure 1 , each of document groups is formed as a set of nested <frame> , which includes a name that describes the group , a
1143
