Analyzing Online Discussion for Marketing Intelligence
Natalie Glance Matthew Siegler
Matthew Hurst Robert Stockton
Kamal Nigam
Takashi Tomokiyo
<firstInitial><lastName>@intelliseek.com
Intelliseek Applied Research Center
Pittsburgh , PA 15217
ABSTRACT We present a system that gathers and analyzes online discussion as it relates to consumer products . Weblogs and online message boards provide forums that record the voice of the public . Woven into this discussion is a wide range of opinion and commentary about consumer products . Given its volume , format and content , the appropriate approach to understanding this data is large scale web and text data mining . By using a wide variety of state of the art techniques including crawling , wrapping , text classification and computational linguistics , online discussion is gathered and annotated within a framework that provides for interactive analysis that yields marketing intelligence for our customers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords : text mining , content systems , computational linguistics , machine learning , information retrieval
1 . SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The system is comprised of four main components . The content component crawls the web for weblog , message board and Usenet content and populates internal search indices . The search and relevance component uses a set of queries and a relevance filter to retrieve messages from the indices . The production component applies analyses to the relevant messages , producing a set of extracted facts . These form the project data over which the last component , interactive analysis , is used to discover marketing intelligence .
Discovery and harvesting of message data is the first component of our system . Data collection from Usenet newsgroups is straightforward . For weblogs , we collect lists of recently updated URLs from centralized services that are typically pinged by weblog authoring software . After crawling , we use a model based approach to segment weblogs into multiple posts by discovering common xpaths to the date and title of the weblog , along with other heuristics . We complement our approach to model based segmentation using weblog feeds when available . These contain the updated content of the weblog in standardized XML format ( RSS , Atom ) , and are provided by a number of weblog hosting services . For online message board content , harvesting uses web site wrapping and intelligent directed crawling to ex
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . tract messages from web pages while minimizing the crawling impact on web servers .
Our content system indexes hundreds of millions of weblog , message board , and Usenet messages . For any given project , only a small fraction of these messages are relevant . The second component of our system , search and relevance , uses a two stage approach to identify this relevant subset , combining complex boolean queries to our indices and a machine learning classifier trained by active learning . The analyst first configures the search queries and then labels training and testing sets using an active learning process that creates both a text classifier and performance estimates . This process incorporates a heterogeneous blend of traditional active learning strategies as well as strategies that leverage domain knowledge .
The third component of the system analyzes relevant messages to extract facts that represent at a fine level the expressions made within each message . A number of topic classifiers are created during configuration , by hand writing rules ( using words , phrases , stemming , synonymy , windowing and context sensitivity ) and training machine learning classifiers where appropriate . These topics can include things such as brands being tracked ( eg Dell Axim ) and features or concepts in the domain ( eg Screen , Technical Support , Price ) . In addition , a sentiment ( or polarity ) analysis is performed to identify positive and negative language in messages . This analysis uses a shallow NLP approach based around a lexicon and semantic interpretation rules . The topics and sentiment analysis are combined to identify positive and negative expressions about brands , and their related features and concepts . Each identified fact is tied to a specific segment of text in a message . This collection of extracted facts forms the basis for the fourth component , interactive analysis , described as part of the case study .
Our work is similar to Takumi [ 2 ] , an analysis system over extracted information from call center text data , and the CiteSeer project [ 1 ] , providing a search interface over extracted information for research papers . Our work emphasizes challenges created by focusing on the web , and the appropriate analysis technologies to understand the data .
2 . CASE STUDY
This section presents an example of how our system discovers marketing intelligence from internet discussion . A typical project will analyze anywhere from tens of thousands of messages to tens of millions of messages . The following case study presents such a project in the domain of handheld computers , including PDAs , Pocket PCs , and Smart
1172 Figure 1 : A breakdown of selected messages by brand , along with Buzz Count and Polarity metrics .
Figure 2 : A display of the social network analysis for discussion about the Dell Axim on a message board . phones . Some of the basic questions asked by our customers are “ What are people saying about my brand ? ” and “ What do people like and dislike about my brand ? ” . This paper argues that these questions are best answered through interactive analysis of text mined data . Manual review of the data or simple search are not comprehensive , deep or fast enough to provide robust answers to these basic questions . Figure 1 shows our interactive analysis tool . One way to analyze messages is through a top down methodology , that starts with broad aggregate findings about a brand , and then digs deeper to understand the drivers of those findings . The Comparatives analysis breaks down the messages and generates a variety of metrics over each segment . Figure 1 shows all handhelds discussion broken down by brand . The Dell Axim is the most “ popular ” brand , as measured by buzz volume , capturing 12 % of all discussion . However , by a measure of overall sentiment , the Dell Axim does not do so well . The Polarity column shows a 1 10 score representing the aggregate measure of sentiment about this brand . This metric is based on the posterior estimate of the ratio of the frequency of positive to negative comments . The Axim ’s score of 3.4 is relatively low .
To understand drivers of this high volume , low sentiment discussion , an analyst selects the messages saying negative things about the Axim with just a few clicks . The Phrases tab identifies distinguishing words and phrases for negative Axim discussion through a combination of statistical and NLP techniques . Table 1 shows the top eight words and phrases , as calculated by our phrase finding technology . Further drilling down on these words and phrases to the messages containing them reveals , for example , that a number of “ SD cards ” are “ incompatible ” with the Axim , and
Keywords Axim X5 Dell par today ROM problem incompatible CF slot
Keyphrases Dell Axim Pocket PC my Dell Axim Dell Axim X5 battery life SD card Toshiba e740 that “ ROM ” updates are needed to make Personal Internet Explorer work correctly .
A second way of analyzing data is through a bottomup methodology , starting with all discussion and identifying clusters of information that can be understood through interactive analysis . One of several such techniques in our application is a social network analysis . Figure 2 displays this network for discussion regarding the Axim on a popular Pocket PC discussion board . Each node in the graph is an author , and links between authors are created when authors interact by posting in the same thread . The length of each link connecting two nodes is inversely proportional to the strength of their interaction . Figure 2 shows three clusters of discussion in the message board . By selecting the rightmost cluster of messages , the analyst can quickly proceed to the Quotes analysis , which displays extracted facts with backing sentences having high sentiment about the selected brand . Table 2 shows results of this analysis for negative sentiment about the Axim within that authorial cluster . The quotes clearly indicate that a distinct group of people are unhappy about the audio and IR components of the Axim . This case study illustrates two key points . First , an interactive analysis system can be used to quickly derive marketing intelligence from large amounts of online discussion . Second , the integration of many different state of the art technologies are necessary to enable such a system .
3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] K . D . Bollacker , S . Lawrence , and C . L . Giles . CiteSeer : An autonomous web agent for automatic retrieval and identification of interesting publications . In Agents ’98 , pages 116–123 , 1998 .
[ 2 ] T . Nasukawa , M . Morohashi , and T . Nagano . Customer claim mining : Discovering knowledge in vast amounts of textual data . Technical report , IBM Research , Japan , 1999 .
• It is very sad that the Axim ’s audio AND Irda output are so sub par , because it is otherwise a great PPC
• The Axim has a considerably inferior audio output than any other Pocket PC we have ever tested .
• When we tested it we found that there was a problem with the audio output of the Axim .
Table 1 : The top eight words and phrases for negative comments about the Dell Axim .
Table 2 : Three representative automatically extracted negative sentences about the Dell Axim .
1173
