Mining Directed Social Network from Message Board
Naohiro Matsumura
Osaka University
Osaka , 560 0043 Japan
+81 6 6850 5231 matumura@econ.osaka uacjp
David E . Goldberg
UIUC
Urbana , IL 68801 +1 217 333 2346 deg@uiuc.edu
Xavier Llor`a
UIUC
Urbana , IL 68801 +1 217 333 2346 xllora@uiuc.edu
ABSTRACT In the paper , we present an approach to mining a directed social network from a message board on the Internet where vertices denote individuals and directed links denote the flow of influence . The influence is measured based on propagating terms among individuals via messages . The distance with respect to contextual similarity between individuals is acquired since the influence indicates the degree of their shared interest represented as terms .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C.2 [ Computer Systems Organization ] : Computer communication networks
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Directed social network , Internet message board
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the advent of popular social networking services on the Internet such as Friendster 1 and Orkut 2 , social networks are again coming into the limelight with respect to this new communication platform . A social network shows the relationships between individuals in a group or organization where we can observe their social activities . In this paper , we propose a method of mining a directed social network from a message board on the Internet .
2 . MINING DIRECTED SOCIAL NETWORKS
In a social network based upon online communication , the distance between individuals does not mean ‘geographical distance’ because each person lives in a virtual world . Instead , distance can be considered ‘psychological distance’ and this can be measured by the “ influence ” wielded among the members of the network .
1http://wwwfriendstercom/ 2http://wwworkutcom/
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Figure 1 : A message chain of four messages sent by three individuals .
The basic idea of measuring influence comes from the IDM ( Influence Diffusion Model ) [ 1 ] in which the influence between a pair of individuals is defined as the sum of propagating terms among them via messages . Our approach simplifies the algorithms of the IDM to make it more intuitively reasonable . Here , let a message chain be a series of messages connected by post reply relationships , and the influence of a message x on a message y ( x precedes y ) in the same message chain be ix→y . Then , ix→y is defined as ix→y = |wx ∩ ··· ∩ wy| ,
( 1 ) where wx and wy are the set of terms in x and y , respectively , and |wx ∩···∩ wy| is the number of terms propagating from x to y via other messages . If x and y are not in the same message chain , we define ix→y as 0 because the terms in x and y are used in a different context and there is no influence between them .
Based on the influence between messages , we next measure the influence of an individual p on an individual q as the total influence of p ’s messages on other ’s messages through q ’s messages replying to p ’s messages . Let the set of p ’s messages be α , the set of q ’s messages replying to any of α be β , and the message chains starting from a message z be ξz . The influence from p onto q , jp→q , is then defined as
X
X
X x∈α z∈β y∈ξz jp→q = ix→y .
( 2 )
Here we see the influence of p on q as q ’s contribution toward the spread of p ’s messages . The influence of each individual is also measurable using jp→q . Let the influence
1092 Figure 2 : A directed social network showing the influence from Figure 1 .
Figure 3 : A directed social network showing the distance from Figure 1 . of p be kp , and all other individuals be γ . Then , kp is defined as
X q∈γ kp = jp→q .
( 3 )
As an example of measuring the influence , let us use the simple message chain shown in Figure 1 where Anne posted Message 1 , Bobby posted Message 2 as a reply to Message 1 , and Cathy posted Message 3 and Message 4 as replies to Message 2 and Message 1 , respectively . In the figure , solid arrows show the replies to previous messages , and dotted arrows show the flows of influence . Here , the influence between a pair of individuals is as follows .
• The influence of Anne on Bobby is 3 ( ie , jAnne→Bobby = 3 ) , because two terms ( “ Environment ” and “ Convenience ” ) were propagated from Anne to Bobby , and one term ( “ Environment ” ) was propagated from Anne to Cathy via Bobby .
• The influence of Anne on Cathy is 1 ( ie , iAnne→Cathy = 1 ) , because one term ( “ Price ” ) was propagated from Anne to Cathy .
• The influence of Bobby on Cathy is 1 ( ie , iBobby→Cathy =
1 ) , because one term ( “ Environment ” ) was propagated from Bobby to Cathy .
• The influence of Bobby on Anne and of Cathy on Anne is 0 ( ie , iBobby→Anne = 0 and iCathy→Anne = 0 ) , because no term was propagated to Anne from either Bobby or Cathy .
Note that we ignore the influence of Anne on Cathy , even though a term “ Environment ” was propagated from Anne to Cathy via Bobby , because we want to measure direct influence between individuals . Instead , we consider the indirect influence of Anne on Cathy via Bobby as the contribution of Bobby , and add it to the influence of Anne on Bobby .
By mapping the influence between individuals , we can obtain a social network showing influence as in Figure 2 where their relationships are shown as directional links and the influence between them .
The influence between individuals also shows the distance between them with respect to contextual similarity since the influence indicates the degree of their shared interest represented as terms . The influence and contextual distance between individuals are inversely related ; ie , the greater the influence , the shorter the distance . Here , let us define the length of a link ( ie , distance ) as follows .
Definition 1 . The distance from an individual p to an individual q , dp→q , is defined as the value inversely proportionate to the influence from p to q ; ie , dp→q = 1/jp→q .
The distance is between 0 and 1 when the influence is more than 0 . However , the distance cannot be measured by the above definition if the influence is 0 . In that case , we define the distance n − 1 ( n is the number of individuals participating in communication ) as the case of the weakest relationships ; ie , the diameter of a social network where all individuals are connected linearly with maximum distance . In this way , a social network with distance is extracted from message chains as shown in Figure 3 .
Based on the forward and backward shortest distances between all the pair of individuals in a social network , we can define “ communication gaps ” as an indicator to understand the state of communication . I revealed the existence of three types of communication , ie , interactive communication , distributed communication , and soapbox communication , by examing 3,000 social networks . Unfortunately , we skip the details of communication gaps in this paper because of the space limitation . Please see [ 2 ] for more details .
3 . CONCLUSION
Human beings are social creatures and we could not survive without cooperating with others . Therefore , understanding how relationships are created and function is essential to make our lives happier and richer . we hope this study will contribute to the realization of a better way of life through social network research .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank the Chance Discovery Consortium for providing financial support for the stay in IlliGAL at UIUC .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] N . Matsumura . Topic Diffusion in a Community .
Chance Discovery , pages 84–97 . Springer Verlag , 2003 . [ 2 ] N . Matsumura , D . E . Goldberg , and X . Xlor`a . Mining social networks from message boards . IlliGAL Report No . 2005001 , 2005 .
1093
