Webified Video : Media Conversion from TV Program to
Web Content and their Integrated Viewing Method
National Institute of Information and Communications
National Institute of Information and Communications
3 5 Hikari dai Seika cho Souraku gun , Kyoto , 619 0289
Hisashi Miyamori
Technology ( NICT )
Japan
+81 774 98 6873 miya@nictgojp
ABSTRACT A method is proposed for viewing broadcast content that converts TV programs into Web content and integrates the results with related information retrieved using local and/or Internet content .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H24 [ DATABASE MANAGEMENT ] : Systems – multimedia databases , H51 [ INFORMATION INTERFACES AND PRESENTATION ] : Multimedia Information Systems – video . General Terms : Algorithms , Management , Documentation , Design . Keywords : Next generation storage TV , media conversion , fusion of broadcast and web content , topic segmentation , metadata generation , scene search
1 . INTRODUCTION The recent introduction of hard disk ( HD ) recorders for home use has greatly increased the amount of TV programming that can be recorded . The latest HD recorders have a capacity of 600GB , enabling the recording of more than 1070 hours at a certain quality . Since users do not have an unlimited amount of time to view such a great amount of content , there is a great need for functions that enable users to efficiently explore for particular video segments from a huge amount of recorded data , that present an overview of the content in a compact form , and that can provide a digest of the content in a limited amount of time . In addition , although television programs are created by professional programmers , so that they have excellent quality and are extremely realistic time restrictions ( on air time ) and an obligation to accommodate popular tastes . That is , programs must serve the public interest and appeal to a mass market . They are thus limited in the amount of detail and scope of information they can provide . The need to access information related to TV programs that provides more detail or presents multiple perspectives will become more and more important as people's lifestyles become more diversified . Thus , there is a great need for functions that can efficiently access and present related information not provided by television programs . they suffer from in general ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Katsumi Tanaka
Technology ( NICT ) and
Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi Sakyo Kyoto 606 8501 Japan ktanaka@ikyoto uacjp information presented or consolidating
While various viewing methods have been proposed for easy scene exploration from a multitude of videos or for gaining a quick understanding of the content [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] . They are based on simply summarizing the content . Few are based on augmenting the the accessible information by associating the related information in the local and/or Internet content A method is proposed for viewing broadcast content that converts TV programs into Web content and integrates the results with related information retrieval retrieved using the local and/or Internet content . Conventionally , Web pages are browsed on a PC ( active browsing ) while TV programs are being watched on TV ( passive watching ) . By converting the programs into Web pages , our method enables programs to be viewed using active browsing . That is , the user can skim over the programs to get an overview of them and can easily explore for particular scenes . By integrating related information , it enables programs to be viewed efficiently with value added content . In addition , an intuitive , user friendly browsing interface enables the user to changing the level of detail displayed for information by zooming . An implemented prototype demonstrates the validity of the approach taken by the proposed method . integrated the
2 . CONCEPT OF WEBIFIED VIDEO Webified video provides a new method for viewing broadcast TV programs and is expected to be applied mainly for next generation storage TV . As shown in figure 1 , TV programs are converted into Web content and integrated with related information retrieved using the local and/or Internet content . Conventional TV programs are recorded as a single piece of data without any association with related information , whereas the webified TV programs are structured hierarchically at different levels of detail and hyperlinked to various positions inside the program . Moreover , the webified video is also linked to related information outside the program , enabling the original program to be augmented with value added content . Webified video has three major characteristics :
( cid:190 )
( cid:190 )
( cid:190 )
TV programs are converted from broadcast media to Web content , ie , webification . The Web content is augmented with related information in the local and/or Internet content . The browsing interface uses zooming operation .
The webification enhances the browsability of the TV program and provides a basis for augmenting information . The retrieval of related information enables viewing of information not provided
946 by the original program . The zoom operation interface enables the user to control the level of detail displayed , providing intuitive and easy to understand browsing . The processing overview of the proposed method is shown in figure 2 . First , a TV program is recorded and hierarchically segmented into topics using information in the program's closed captions . The segmentation may be achieved using semantic analysis of video , if necessary . The segmented closed captions and corresponding scenes are grouped into pairs and then presented in the form of a storyboard on the screen . The retrieved related information is integrated at the corresponding positions in the storyboard . The display of the integrated information is controlled using zooming operation , enabling the users to easily explore for specific scenes . figure 3 . The segmented caption texts and videos are displayed vertically in the form of a storyboard . Hyperlinks to the related information are located below the caption texts , enabling users to access more detailed or broader information than provided by the original program . The transformation of the screen appearance is illustrated in figure 4 . By using the zooming feature , the sizes of the displayed images of the segmented scenes can be changed smoothly , and the storyboard can be switched from one to another with a different level of detail . Users can thus seamlessly move back and forth between storyboard screens with different levels of detail and the normal playback screen , enabling them to easily explore for specific scenes . Moreover , hyperlinks to the related information are integrated in each storyboard , so users can efficiently access the related information at different levels of detail or from different perspectives depending on the situation .
Figure 1 . Concept of webified video
Figure 2 . Processing overview of webified video
3 . IMPLEMENTATION OF PROTOTYPE A prototype browser based on the webified video has been implemented . The segmentation uses the closed captions and is based on statistical computation , such as calculation of word distribution [ 4 ] . It does not need training data and can be applied to any topic domain . The retrieval of related information uses retrieval [ 4 ] , which works by complementary extracting data called topic structures from the information in closed captions , creating several structured queries based on these structures , and performing Web searches using a search engine . An example screen of the implemented prototype is shown in information
Figure 3 . Implementation example of webified video
Figure 4 . Transformation of screen appearance by the proposed method
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Christel , MG , Huang , C . , Enhanced access to digital video through visually rich interfaces , ICME , MD L5.1 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] Uchihashi , S . , Foote , J . , Girgensohn , A . , Boreczky , J . , Video Manga : generating semantically meaningful video summaries , Proc . ACM Multimedia 99 , 1999 .
[ 3 ] Sumiya , K . , Munisamy , M . , Tanaka , K . , TV2Web : generating and browsing web with multiple LOD from video streams and their metadata , ICKS2004 , pp.158 167 , 2004 . [ 4 ] Utiyama , M . , Isahara , H . , A Statistical Model for Domain
Independent Text Segmentation , ACL/EACL 2001 , pp . 491498 , 2001 .
[ 5 ] Qiang Ma , Akiyo Nadamoto , and Katsumi Tanaka ,
Complementary Information Retrieval for Cross Media News Contents , Proc . of ACM MMDB , pp.45 54 , 2004 .
947
