WEBCAP : A Capacity Planning Tool for Web Resource
Management
Sami Habib and Maytham Safar
Kuwait University
Computer Engineering Department P . O . Box 5969 Safat 13060 Kuwait
{shabib , maytham}@engkunivedukw
ABSTRACT A staggering number of multimedia applications are being introduced every day . Yet , the inordinate delays encountered in retrieving multimedia documents make it difficult to use the Web for real time applications such as educational broadcasting , video conferencing , and multimedia streaming . The problem of delivering multimedia documents in time while placing the least demands on the client , network and server resources is a challenging optimization problem . The WEBCAP is ongoing project that explores applying capacity planning techniques to manage or tune the Web resources ( client , network , server ) for optimal or near optimal performance , subject to minimizing the retrieval cost while satisfying the real time constraints and available resources . The WEBCAP project consists of four software modules : object extractor , object representer , object scheduler , and system tuner . The four modules are connected serially with 3 feedback loops . In this paper , we focus on how to extract objects from multimedia document and how to represent them as object and operation flow graphs while maintaining precedence relations among the objects .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Systems and Software ] : Performance Evaluation .
General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Performance .
Keywords : Multimedia , Scheduling , Capacity Planning .
1 . INTRODUCTION The Internet ( World Wide Web ) has been experiencing a phenomenal growth in terms of increasing numbers of servers , and increasing numbers of users that want to access the huge amount of information distributed at vast geographical sites . The main characteristics of the WWW are : distributed information system , heterogeneity , frequent changes , large in size , and nonuniformity of information access . The software tools that are automatically managing and tuning ( design or redesign ) Web resources are lacking behind due to the complexity and diversity of the problem . However , WEBCAP uses well known techniques , which are based on the approaches of a capacity planning tool . Capacity planning has been established for managing and tuning resources in operation research for decades ; moreover , it views as a heuristic process aimed at satisfying predicted client needs through the use of predicted technological changes in the most cost effective and timely manner [ 4 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . representation , object retrieval/caching ,
WEBCAP project involves in multidisciplinary subjects such as object operation scheduling , and web resource tuning . Both authors have intensive background in these areas , especially object caching [ 8 ] [ 9 ] , and object scheduling and system tuning [ 5 ] [ 6 ] . To our knowledge , most of the published related work is limited to object scheduling without considering the operation scheduling within Web system [ 3 ] [ 10 ] . In this paper , we introduce WEBCAP as a capacity planning systems designer/manager to schedule multimedia objects over distributed resources . Also , we focus on a multimedia object extraction and representation . that can guide tool the distributed
2 . AN OVERVIEW OF WEBCAP PROJECT The WEBCAP consists of four modules as shown in Figure 1 . The object extractor ( OE ) is an automating process of identifying the precedence relations among the objects inside Web document of different contents . For example , with static web page content , some use of regular expressions ( eg , XPath expressions ) , special mark up tags , or HTTP headers could be required to provide minimal hints that helps to decide the precedence relations between the objects . While with dynamically generated Web page content , RSS libraries can help in deciding the precedence relations between the objects in the Web page . Finally , with RSS or XML feed content , the process of identifying the precedence relations among the objects in a feed can be automated by adding new RSS Modules [ 7 ] , where namespaces are used to describe a space for our own extensions . The object representer ( OR ) is a 2 level process , where in first level a multimedia document is modeled as an object flow graph ( OFG ) . The node in OFG represents a multimedia object such as a text , still image , audio , or video . The edge in OFG represents the precedence relations among objects based on Allen ’s temporal properties [ 1 ] . In the second level , the object flow graph is mapped into an operating flow graph ( OPFG ) including all operations ( fetch , transmit , decode , and render ) that are needed to fetch an object from the server , transmit it through the network , decode and render it at the client side . The object scheduler ( OS ) takes an OPFG as an input and determines the optimal starting and finishing times for all operations , subject the available Web resources while maintaining all precedence relations among the objects . If the object scheduler fails to satisfy the precedence relations , then the system tuner ( ST ) is invoked to either re manage system resources ( Fig 1 , loop 1 ) , reconfigure document representation ( loop 2 ) or relax precedence relations ( loop 3 ) . to
3 . ASIAN TSUNAMI DISASTER EXAMPLE To illustrate the object extraction and representation , we use a news clip that shows the impact of the earthquake on Malaysia ,
918
Figure 1 . An overview of the WEBCAP project .
Figure 2 . The Asian Tsunami disaster example . where dozens of people and properties were swept away from beaches on the island of Penang [ 2 ] . Figure 2 shows a web page that consists of 8 media objects ( such as still image , text , audio , and video ) with precedence relations among the objects . Image 1 displays the location of the disaster area in Malaysia . Then , Image 1 is replaced by Image 2 showing rescuers on a Malaysian beach and a textual description of it ( Text 1 ) . At the same time an audio is played ( Audio 1 ) briefing news about the disaster . Image 3 displays a man looking at a fishing boat sitting in front of a house in a village on Penang Island . Note that the text description ( Text 2 ) is not displayed until Image 3 is completely displayed . This is to make sure that Text 2 is not displayed with the wrong image ( Image 2 ) . Once Text 2 is displayed and Audio 1 is played completely , a new text ( Text 3 ) is displayed and a video is played that shows an amateur video shot by a family on vacation on a beach in Penang as the tsunami hit . Figure 3 illustrates the object flow graph of the Asian Tsunami disaster and the operation flow graph for one object ( T1 ) . The executed operations on each object can differ in their numbers and execution times depending on the object type and the available resources .
Figure 3 . An object flow graph with a sample of operations .
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We have introduced an ongoing project called WEBCAP that ultimately manages ( reconfigure or redesign ) Web resources for real time multimedia document retrieval while satisfying all users and systems constraints . We are working on unifying and automating the extraction and representation of precedence relations among objects contained in distributed documents with different formats . This work is supported by Kuwait University , Research Grant No . EO 05/04 .
REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Allen , “ Maintaining Knowledge about Temporal Intervals , ”
Communications of the ACM , vol . 26 , no . 11 , 1983 .
[ 2 ] CBC News , http://wwwcbcca [ 3 ] J . Courtiat , C . Santos , C . Lohr , and B . Outtaj , “ Experience with RTLOTOS , a Temporal Extension of the LOTOS Formal Description Technique , ” Computer Communications , Vol . 23 , No . 12 , p . 11041123 , 2000 .
[ 4 ] V . Gupta , “ What is Network Planning ? ” IEEE Communications
Magazine , vol . 23 , no . 10 , October 1985 , pp . 10 16 .
[ 5 ] S . Habib , C . P . Ravikumar and A . C . Parker , “ Storage Allocation and Scheduling Problems in Web Caching Applications , ” NLANR Web Cache Workshop , Boulder , Co.,USA , 1997 .
[ 6 ] S . Habib , “ Synthesis and Optimization of Application Specific Intranets , ” PhD Dissertation , University of Southern California , LA , CA , USA , 2001 .
[ 7 ] IBM Developer Works . http://www 106ibmcom/developerworks/ [ 8 ] M . Safar , “ Efficient MBC based shape retrieval and spatial querying , ” PhD Dissertation , University of Southern California , LA , CA , USA , 2000 .
[ 9 ] M . Safar , “ Classification of Web Caching Systems , ” In the Proceedings of International Conference on WWW/Internet . Lisbon , Portugal , 2002 .
[ 10 ] J . Xu , W . Lee , and J . Liu , “ Scheduling Web Requests in Broadcast Environments , ” The Thirteenth International World Wide Web Conference , 2004 .
919
