Extracting Semantic Structure of Web Documents Using
Content and Visual Information
Rupesh R . Mehta Dept . Comp . Sc . Engg .
Indian Institute of Technology
Kanpur 208016 , India rrmehta@iitkacin
Pabitra Mitra
Dept . Comp . Sc . Engg .
Indian Institute of Technology
Kanpur 208016 , India pmitra@iitkacin
Harish Karnick
Dept . Comp . Sc . Engg .
Indian Institute of Technology
Kanpur 208016 , India hk@iitkacin
ABSTRACT This work aims to provide a page segmentation algorithm which uses both visual and content information to extract the semantic structure of a web page . The visual information is utilized using the VIPS algorithm and the content information using a pre trained Naive Bayes classifier . The output of the algorithm is a semantic structure tree whose leaves represent segments having unique topic . However contents of the leaf segments may possibly be physically distributed in the web page . This structure can be useful in many web applications like information retrieval , information extraction and automatic web page adaptation . This algorithm is expected to outperform other existing page segmentation algorithms since it utilizes both content and visual information .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia
General Terms : Algorithms , Design .
Keywords : DOM , VIPS , Naive Bayes classifier , Topic hierarchy , Page segmentation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Web documents are often heterogeneous and contain multiple topics which do not have relation among each other . They also contain navigational and contact information links which are irrelevant to the topic of the web page . A better retrieval performance can be achieved by considering the page not as an indivisible unit but as having an underlying semantic structure with topically coherent segments as atoms .
2 . VISION BASED PAGE SEGMENTATION The initial attempts to utilize the semi structured nature of web documents were through document object model ( DOM ) trees extracted from the markups . However , web authoring is often casual and therefore DOM poorly reflects the actual semantic structure of a page . Visual page layout structures are more faithful to the semantic partitioning of a page . The vision based page segmentation ( VIPS ) [ 2 ] algorithm utilizes the fact that semantically related contents are often grouped together , and the entire page is divided
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . into different regions using implicit or explicit visual separators such as images , lines , font sizes , blank areas , etc . VIPS iteratively uses DOM structure and visual cues for block extraction , separator detection and content structure generation . Based on these visual perceptions each node of the VIPS tree [ 2 ] is assigned a ‘Degree of Coherence’ ( DoC ) value ( ranging between 1 10 ) to indicate how coherent the content in the block is . A higher DoC value signifies that a segment is more homogeneous .
3 . DETERMINING TOPIC COHERENCY OF
PAGE SEGMENTS
The content homogeneity of a page block can be determined from its degree of belongingness to different categories in a topic hierarchy . The open directory project ( ODP ) [ 4 ] topic hierarchy is considered for this purpose . The degree of belongingness to a category is measured in terms of the ‘posterior’ probability of classifying a segment into the category using a pre trained naive Bayes classifier [ 3 ] . If the probability is above T h ( = 0.4 , say ) for some category , the segment is considered as belonging to that category .
The basic principle of naive Bayes classifier is to use the joint probabilities of words and categories to estimate the probabilities of categories given a document . The primary reason for using this method instead of a vector space cosine similarity approach are as follows : Page segments are usually of short length and the vector space model is not a good representative of their semantic content . By using a trained classifier one exploits the statistical properties of the training corpus in the coherency determination process . Also , the classifier categorizes a segment into a unique topic belonging to the finite set of topics in the hierarchy . This segment category is later used as its index while generating the semantic structure tree . It may be noted that purely content based document segmentation without considering any markup structure has been a well studied problem in information retrieval [ 1 ] . The main hindrance in this approach is the difficulty in identifying segment boundaries .
4 . PROPOSED ALGORITHM
In this article , we propose a page segmentation algorithm which uses both visual and content information to obtain semantically meaningful blocks . The VIPS algorithm is initially used to obtain fine grained segments . However the depth of the semantic tree is controlled by their topic coherency as measured by a pre trained naive Bayes classifier .
928 This is followed by a merging phase where topically similar segments are combined together . The output of the algorithm is a semantic structure tree . The leaves of the tree represent segments having unique topic and the contents of the leaf segment may possibly be distributed across the web page . The two phases of the algorithm are described below . Split Phase : In this phase , VIPS algorithm [ 2 ] with a permitted degree of coherence ( pDoC ) , is applied to a web page to get an initial content structure tree . Considering each leaf node of a tree as a segment , we check whether the segment belongs to more than one category in topic taxonomy [ 4 ] using the trained naive Bayes classifier . If it belongs to more than one category , it implies that it is still not semantically coherent and needs further segmentation . We therefore apply VIPS algorithm recursively by increasing the permitted degree of coherence , till each segment belongs to exactly one category or number of words in the segment are below some threshold . In this recursive process the content structure tree is modified as specified by the following algorithm . Algorithm : Splitting ( page , Parent , pDoC ) i . Apply VIPS with permitted degree of coherence ( pDoC ) on a page to get the initial content structure tree . ii . Add the content structure tree to Parent , if Parent is not null . iii . For each leaf node ( segment ) in content structure tree : ( a . ) Compute the probabilities of belonging to each category at some predefined level of topic taxonomy , using naive Bayes classifier .
( b . ) If for a segments the probability value is higher than some threshold for more than one classes , apply Splitting ( page , Parent , pDoC+1 ) recursively .
( c . ) Else ( if segment belongs to only one category ) do not fragment that segment .
Merge Phase : After the Split phase , we get a content structure tree containing fine grained segments at leaf level . Each segment at leaf level of a tree belongs to exactly one category . In this phase , segments belonging to same category are identified and merged to form a new segment . Parent of newly formed node is a least common ancestor of all merged nodes in content structure tree . This helps in merging the semantically related contents which are distributed across the web page .
5 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Experiments were performed on several pages with heterogeneous content . In most cases , the proposed algorithm produced segments which were semantically more meaningful . Fig 1 shows , as an example , the output of VIPS and the proposed algorithm on a part of a Google Sci/Tech news page . Fig 1.a is the output of VIPS with pDoC=6 . It treats whole part as a single segment ( S1 ) , whereas Fig 1.b is output of the proposed algorithm where segments ( S1 and S3 ) related to computer security category are merged together to form a single block inspite of their physical distribution in the page . The unrelated segment ( S2 ) lying between these two blocks is extracted as a separate block . Experimental studies on information retrieval tasks are currently being performed .
6 . CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSIONS
A method for extracting semantic structure of web pages
( a )
( b )
Figure 1 : Page segmentation using ( a ) VIPS , ( b ) proposed algorithm based on content and visual cues is proposed . In this algorithm , topic coherency determines the granularity of the individual segments and thus circumvents the need to choose a DoC threshold as in the VIPS algorithm . The assumption of VIPS that semantically related contents are grouped together in a web page is not always true . Semantically related segments may be distributed across the web page intentionally or unintentionally . In our approach , physically distributed but semantically homogeneous blocks are treated as a single unit . In future , incorporating topic hierarchy in the semantic structure tree of a web page would make it more amenable to semantic web mining . Such a semantic structure of a web page can be useful in enhancing the performance of various web applications like information retrieval , information extraction and automatic web page adaptation .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Beeferman , A . Berger , and J . Lafferty . Statistical models for text segmentation . Machine Learning , 34(1 3):177–210 , 1999 .
[ 2 ] J R W . D . Cai , S . Yu and W Y Ma . Extracting content structure for web pages based on visual representation . In Proc . 5th Asia Pacific Web Conf , Xi’an , China , 2003 .
[ 3 ] T . Mitchell . Machine Learning . McGraw Hill , NY , 1997 . [ 4 ] Open directory project . http://dmozorg/
929
