Hera Presentation Generator
Flavius Frasincar flaviusf@wintuenl
Geert Jan Houben houben@wintuenl
Peter Barna pbarna@wintuenl
Eindhoven University of Technology
PO Box 513
NL 5600 MB Eindhoven , the Netherlands
ABSTRACT Semantic Web Information Systems ( SWIS ) are Web Information Systems that use Semantic Web technologies . Hera is a modeldriven design methodology for SWIS . In Hera , models are represented in RDFS and model instances in RDF . The Hera Presentation Generator ( HPG ) is an integrated development environment that supports the presentation generation layer of the Hera methodology . The HPG is based on a pipeline of data transformations driven by different Hera models .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia—Architectures , Navigation ; D22 [ Software Engineering ] : Design tools and techniques—Computer aided software engineering ( CASE ) ; I24 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Knowledge representation formalisms and methods—Representation languages
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Management
Keywords Design environment , RDF(S ) , SWIS , Semantic Web , WIS
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Semantic Web offers numerous benefits and opportunities to the Web application designer : application interoperability , inference capabilities , semantic validation of models and their instances etc . Web Information Systems that use Semantic Web technologies are called Semantic Web Information Systems ( SWIS ) . Several model driven methodologies for designing SWIS already exists : OntoWebber [ 1 ] , SHDM [ 2 ] , Hera [ 3 ] etc . Most of these methodologies lack an integrated development environment to support the designer in building SWIS . The aim of this paper is to present the Hera Presentation Generator , an integrated development environment that supports the construction of SWIS using Hera .
2 . HERA METHODOLOGY
The Hera methodology is based on two main layers : the data collection layer and the presentation generation layer . The data collection layer specifies the retrieval of data coming form different
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . sources . The presentation generation layer describes the presentation of data tailored to the user and its browsing platform . In Hera , models are represented in RDFS and model instances in RDF .
Figure 1 shows the presentation generation layer of the Hera methodology .
Conceptual Design
Application Design
Presentation Design
Conceptual Model ( CM )
Application Model ( AM )
Presentation Model ( PM )
CM Adaptation Model
AM Adaptation Model
PM Adaptation Model
User/platform profile
Implementation
Application Engine ( incl . AM Adaptation )
Presentation Engine ( incl . PM Adaptation )
Web page
CM Adaptation
Data Collection Engine
( External )
Figure 1 : Hera ’s presentation generation layer .
The conceptual design builds the conceptual model ( CM ) , a uniform view on the data sources . The application design defines the application model ( AM ) , a navigation structure for the application ’s data . The presentation design constructs the presentation model ( PM ) containing the look and feel aspects ( layout/style ) of the application .
A characteristic aspect for Hera is the personalization of the Web presentation based on user preferences and browsing platform . The personalization aspect is defined by two models : the user/platform profile ( UP ) and the adaptation model ( AdaM ) . UP stores the static features ( attribute value pairs ) of the user and his browsing platform . The adaptation model defines appearance conditions for elements that appear in the CM , AM , and PM .
This implementation is based on a sequence of XSLT transfor mations , hence the full name HPG XSLT .
3 . HERA PRESENTATION GENERATOR
The presentation generation layer of the Hera methodology is supported by an integrated development environment called the
952 Figure 2 : The advanced user interface of HPG .
Hera Presentation Generator ( HPG ) . Figure 2 shows the advanced version of the user interface of HPG .
Each transformation step has associated with it a rectangle labeled with the step ’s name ( eg , Conceptual Model , Unfolding AM , Application Adaptation , etc ) Buttons may represent data transformations or one of the inputs/outputs for transformations . Additionally there are buttons to select , create , view , and validate different models . Horizontal arrows at the left and right of a button , and vertical arrows at the top of a button refer to the inputs of the transformation . Vertical arrows at the bottom of a button point to the output of the transformation . In order to view/edit the CM , AM , and PM several Visio solutions were implemented . These Visio solutions support the export of the graphical representation of the models to their corresponding RDF/XML serialization . The validation of the models is based on RDF(S ) semantics and some Hera specific rules .
The HPG has implemented the following data selection and trans formation steps :
Conceptual Model Selection The designer selects one of the existing CM or creates a new CM . Application Model Unfolding The designer selects one of the existing AM that correspond to the previously chosen CM or creates a new AM . The RDF/XML serialization of the AM is unfolded to a format that is more convenient for an XSLT transformation . Application Model Adaptation The designer selects one of the existing UP or creates a new UP , relevant for the AM adaptation . The AM is adapted based on AM appearance conditions and the selected UP . CMI2AMI Transformation Generation Based on the adapted AM , this transformation generates another transformation that converts a CM instance ( CMI ) to an AM instance ( AMI ) . CMI2AMI Transformation The designer selects one of the existing CMI that correspond to the previously chosen CM . Using the formerly generated transformation this CMI is converted to an AMI .
Presentation Model Unfolding The designer selects one of the existing PM that correspond to the previously chosen AM or creates a new PM . The RDF/XML serialization of the PM is unfolded to a format that is more convenient for an XSLT transformation . Presentation Model Adaptation The designer selects one of the existing UP or creates a new UP , relevant for the PM . The PM is adapted based on PM appearance conditions and the selected UP . AMI2PMI Transformation Generation Based on the adapted PM , this transformation generates another transformation that converts an AMI to a PM instance ( PMI ) . AMI2PMI Transformation Using the previously generated transformation the AMI is converted to a PMI . Code Generation The designer selects the output format ( HTML , HTML+TIME , SMIL , or WML ) and generates appropriate code .
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
The Hera Presentation Generator ( HPG ) supports the automatic building of ( static ) WIS from a given set of specifications ( models ) . It supports personalization of the presentation with respect to its navigation structure and layout/style . In future we would like also to add to the HPG the personalization of the presentation with respect to the domain model . Also we would like to build a similar user interface for the HPG generating dynamic WIS .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Y . Jin , S . Xu , and S . Decker . Ontowebber : Model driven ontology based web site management . In 1st International Semantic Web Working Symposium ( SWWS 2001 ) , pages 529–547 . Stanford University , 2001 .
[ 2 ] F . Lima and D . Schwabe . Application modeling for the semantic web . In 1st Latin American Web Congress ( LA WEB 2003 ) , pages 93–102 . IEEE Computer Society , 2003 . [ 3 ] R . Vdovjak , F . Frasincar , G . J . Houben , and P . Barna .
Engineering semantic web information systems in hera . Journal of Web Engineering , 2(1 2):3–26 , 2003 .
953
