An Agent System for Ontology Sharing on WWW
Graduate School of Information Science and Technology , Osaka University , Japan
Kotaro Nakayama , Takahiro Hara , Shojiro Nishio {nakayama.kotaro , hara , nishio}@istosaka uacjp
ABSTRACT Semantic Web Services ( SWS ) , a new generation WWW technology , will facilitate the automation of Web service tasks , including automated Web service discovery , execution , composition and mediation by using XML based metadata and ontology . There have been several efforts to build knowledge representation languages for Web Services . However , only few attempts have so far been made to develop applications based on SWS . Especially , front end agent systems for users are one of the urgent research areas . The purpose of this paper is to introduce our new integrated front end agent system for ontology management and SWS management .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services—data sharing , web based services ; H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Management , Design
Keywords Semantic Web , Web Services , Ontology , Agent Technologies
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent years , the Semantic Web has been the subject of controversy among WWW researchers . The purpose of the Semantic Web is to provide structures and tools that allows data to be shared and reused across applications , enterprises , and communities . It enables users to find target data from a huge amount of documents on WWW , efficiently and quickly . Standardization of structures for metadata , ontology and inference rules have improved [ 2 ] in recent years . However , it might be a mistake to assume that the development of metadata has also improved . In fact , the problem of a lack of metadata still remain because of the complicated method to manage metadata . Several research groups have developed modeling tools and user interfaces that allow user to manage metadata and ontologies easily[1 , 3 ] .
Let us now look at Web Services , another main topic of WWW technologies . Web Services , Web accessible pro
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Figure 1 : Architecture grams , are garnering a great deal of interest from industry and researcher , and standards are emerging for low level descriptions of Web Services . In particular , we must make special mention of activities on enterprise . Native support of Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) on Longhorn is a notable example .
Two main topics of the WWW , Semantic Web technology and Web Service technology , established a new research area called Semantic Web Services ( SWS ) . SWS , a new generation web technology , will facilitate the automation of Web Service tasks , including automated Web Service discovery , execution , composition and mediation by using XML based metadata . In the last few years , numerous activities about SWS have been conducted to achieve machineunderstandable data structures and architectures for Web Services[4 , 5 ] . However , ontology management and SWS management are completely separated in these research . Users need an integrated system which can provide feedback between modules .
We therefore propose a new integrated agent system for ontology sharing on WWW , which enables users to manage not only ontologies but also SWS .
2 . ARCHITECTURE
In this section , we explain our proposed system . Figure 1 shows the system structure . In the following , we examine the system structure in detail . 2.1 Semantic Wrapper
A great deal of effort has made on ontology management . What seems to be lacking , however , is who made ontologies
964 by such tools for expert . In other words , ontologies have to be managed automatically from every day life by using Personal Information Manager ( PIM ) agents .
The Semantic Wrapper module creates a semantic data based on the Semantic Web standard RDF from PIM applications such as mail clients , schedulers , and so on . This feature translates PIM data from native data format into RDF . We believe that it will be an approach to solve the lack of metadata on the Semantic Web .
2.2 Personalized Ontology
The Personalized Ontology is a concept dictionary database which is prepared for each user . The hierarchical structure of concept depends on the user ’s culture , such as company , family , region , and so on , therefore , a concept dictionary should be personalized to each user . We used WordNet 2.0 as an initial ontology database , and the ontology will be personalized while running the agent system by updating the concepts . In addition , we defined Certainty Factor ( CF ) for each concept and the relation between the concepts to calculate trust for inference . In the view of implementation techniques , all of the XML data is stored in a relational database , and is indexed . This personalized ontology will be used in dialogues with the agent , inference and the vocabulary for the Semantic Wrapper .
2.3 RDF Mining
The RDF Mining module generates ontology by using natural language processing on RDF metadata . This feature uses summary of PIM data , especially RSS , to obtain a user ’s interest . To begin with it , parses the RSS and get title element and body element . Next , it identifies noun words and unknown words by using NLP tools . Then , it measures word importance from frequency and Co Occurrence relations , and register the words which are decided as important words . Finally , the registered word will be checked to user via dialogue interface , and will define the relation between other existing words .
2.4 WSDL Wrapper
As we explained , Web Services became a big part of the Semantic Web . However , the problem of the lack of semantics for Web Services still remain because Web Service Description Languages ( WSDL ) define only syntax . We therefore used OWL S / DAML S as an ontology data to make semantics for Web Services because OWL S is the first wellresearched Web Services Ontology , and has numerous users from industry and academe .
This system is based on a semantics wrapper for a PIM data method which integrates personalized ontology management and SWS management into one front end agent system . We can get a lot of metadata from standard groupware functions such as schedule , CMS , Weblog , and so on . We get action log as a well formed RSS constantly from PIM agent .
WSDL Wrapper is semantic metadata for Web Services which enable agent program to make inferences from Grounding data on personalized ontology . Users can search and execute Web services by using the agent interface . The search function uses this semantics data and personal ontology to infer what Web service user wants to execute from request keyword .
Figure 2 : SWS management interface
3 . CURRENT STATUS
We are currently implementing the aforementioned architecture in a system . The RSS Mining module and the user interface module have already been developed and experimented with by using user ’s RDF data , and the result of the experiment was satisfactory . Figure 2 is a screenshot which shows SWS management interface , a partial GUI of this agent system . Users can manage Web Services and the relation between Ontology by using SWS technology . In addition , we can write a VBA script code to execute Web Services via the Script Editor pane . Other interfaces , such as Dialogue agent interface , Ontology management interface , and the PIM interface , cannot be discussed here for want of space .
4 . CONCLUSION
We proposed an integrated agent system for ontology management and SWS management . Especially , RSS mining function for making ontologies on our system showed satisfactory result . We believe that an integrated front end agent system based on Semantic Web Services will be needed in SOA paradigm . In addition , We can now use results of the existing methodologies[4 , 5 ] such as automated composition of Semantic Web Services and Planning for the next step .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Brockmans , R . Volz , A . Eberhart , and P . Loffler .
Visual modeling of owl dl ontologies using uml . In Proc . of International Semantic Web Conference ( 2004 ) , pages 198–213 , Nov . 2004 .
[ 2 ] A . Gomez Perez and O . Corcho . Ontology languages for the semantic web . Intelligent Systems , IEEE , 17(1):54–60 , Jan/Feb 2002 .
[ 3 ] A . Maedche , B . Motik , and L . Stojanovic . Managing multiple and distributed ontologies on the semantic web . VLDB Journal , 12(4):286–302 , Nov . 2003 .
[ 4 ] B . Medjahed , A . Bouguettaya , and A . K . Elmagarmid .
Composing web services on the semantic web . VLDB Journal , 12(4):333–351 , Nov . 2003 .
[ 5 ] P . Traverso and M . Pistore . Automated composition of semantic web services into executable processes . In Proc . of International Semantic Web Conference ( 2004 ) , pages 380–394 , Nov . 2004 .
965
