Automatic Generation of Link Collections and their Visualization
Osamu Segawa
Chubu Electric Power Co . , Inc .
Nagoya , 459 8522 Japan
Jun Kawai
TIS Inc .
Osaka , 564 0051 Japan
Kazuyuki Sakauchi
TIS Inc .
Osaka , 564 0051 Japan
SegawaOsamu@chudencojp sakauchi@karltiscojp
ABSTRACT In this paper , we describe a method of generating link collections in a user specified category by comprehensively collecting existing link collections and analyzing their hyperlink references . Moreover , we propose a visualization method for a bird ’s eye view of the generated link collections . Our methods are effective in grasping intuitively the trend of significant sites and keywords in a category . Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Systems ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia General Terms Algorithms Keywords Link collection , Hyperlink analysis , Visualization 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Link collections are useful resources in information retrieval on the Web . However , their creation and maintenance require much cost . Moreover , even if we observe a link collection page in a category , both coverage and usefulness of the sites referred from the page are not always guaranteed . In a popular or topic field , it is expected that a number of well classified link collections exist . Therefore , by comprehensively collecting existing link collections in various categories and analyzing their hyperlink references , we will be able to identify useful sites and grasp the trend of the Internet . Based on this concept , in this paper , we describe a method of generating and visualizing link collections in a user specified category .
2 . AUTOMATIC GENERATION OF LINK
COLLECTIONS
The input to the system is only a user specified category word . The algorithm is shown below .
1 . The acquisition of existing link collections is performed using a Web crawler . Gathering pages that are determined to be link collection pages are saved . The rules for this determination are as follows : 1 ) more than a certain number of external links exist ; 2 ) the title tag includes the string “ link collection ” or “ link ” ; and 3 ) the file name includes the string “ link ” .
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
U
Subset P including seed URL L6 L1
L4 L5
L2
L3 a b d e s a b c d e f s b d e s a b e g f j s a b e g f h b c d f h
Link collection Seed URL URL
URL frequency of appearance in subset P s 4 a 3 b 4 c 1 d 2 e 4 f 3 g 2 h 1 j 1
In subset P , choose the URL with a frequency of appearance greater than n . n=2 Reorganized URL set Lr = {s,a,b,d,e,f,g} n=3 Reorganized URL set Lr = {s,a,b,e,f}
Figure 1 : Method of generating link collections .
2 . As a preprocess , a content page is acquired from all the external links included in the link collection set , and feature words are extracted for every URL . Here , feature words are selected by evaluating the tf*idf value of the words included in the title tag and text of each content page .
3 . Let U be the list of external URLs included in the link collection set in the user specified category . Among the elements of U , the URL for which the frequency of appearance is greater than a certain number , or the URL that includes a category word in its feature words is selected as a seed URL ( ie , a typical site in the category ) .
4 . From among the elements of subset P that includes the seed URL ( see Fig 1 ) , choose URLs with a frequency of appearance greater than n ( n > 1 ) and reorganize a new URL set . Then , determine the theme label words for each reorganized URL set based on the feature words of the set .
5 . Finally , the degree of semantic relevance between the category and each reorganized URL set is evaluated , and the sets that have high relevance scores are selected as final link collections . Here , semantic relevance score is defined as the cosine similarity measure of the vector space model between the feature vector of the category and the feature vector of a reorganized URL set .
3 . VISUALIZATION OF LINK COLLECTIONS
Using the method described above , a number of link colIf a lections are generated by the seed URL ’s difference .
942 large number of link collections are displayed , an overview of the results is not always easy .
Therefore , we propose a method of visualizing generated link collections on a plane . In our method , sites and feature words that are elements of a link collection are displayed as a node on a plane , and a graph structure in which an arc expresses the connection to a link collection is generated . In the visualization , nodes connected with the arc receive tension mutually by the dynamics system similar to the spring model . At the same time , each node is distributed in the direction of the perimeter by a weak expansion pressure from the center of the plane . According to the layout procedure , a node belonging to many link collections remains near the center of a visualization map , while a node belonging to specific link collections localizes near the perimeter and forms a cluster . If a node has a high arc density , it is a worth visit site or a significant keyword in a category . 4 . 4.1 Search directory
IMPLEMENTATION
We have developed a search directory system using the proposed method described in section 2 . The system generated link collections in 607 categories automatically ( in January 2005 ) . An example of the generated link collection ( category : RDF ) is shown in Fig 2 . 4.2 Visualization tool
We have developed a visualization tool based on the method described in section 3 . An example of the visualization result is shown in Fig 3 . This figure shows the visualization result of 8 link collections ( category : RDF ) . On the visualization map , the nodes of sites and feature words are displayed with no duplication . A red oval node indicates a site , and a green oval node indicates a feature word . A yellow circle expresses the organization as a link collection . The more arcs there are in a site or a feature word node , the deeper the color of the node is . In this example , the W3C RDF page ( the significant site in this category ) is located in the center of the map , and the other related sites in RDF field are located around the perimeter of the map .
The map provides a kind of search interface .
If users double click a site node , they can access the corresponding page via a browser . Moreover , if users click a word node , the site that includes it as a feature word is highlighted . 5 . RELATED WORK
In the field of Web community analysis , Kleinberg proposed the HITS [ 1 ] . The aim of the HITS is to find authorities and hubs in a category . The focus of our method is to generate various new hubs ( link collections ) using existing link collections . Kumar et al . proposed the Web Trawling [ 2 ] . Our method is similar to Kumar ’s in that the cooccurrence of references is analyzed . In our method , on the other hand , there is no premise of a complete bipartite graph structure in the discovery of a site set .
Moreover , in the field of Web visualization , several methods concernig the relevance between pages ( sites ) or between keywords have been proposed . The former example is TouchGraph ’s Google Browser [ 3 ] , a visualization tool for search results . The latter example is Keyword Map [ 4 ] . Our method is different from these approaches in two points . One is that our method does not depend on commercial search engines , and the other is that our method visualizes the relevance of a site and a keyword simultaneously .
Figure 2 : Example of the generated link collection ( category : RDF ) .
Figure 3 : Example of visualizing link collections ( category : RDF ) .
6 . SUMMARY
In this paper , we have proposed a method of automatically generating link collections in a user specified category , and a method of visualizing the generated link collections . Our methods are effective in grasping intuitively the trend of significant sites and keywords in a category . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Kleinberg , “ Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment ” , in Proc . 9th ACM SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms , 1998 .
[ 2 ] R . Kumar et al . , “ Trawling the web for emerging cyber communities ” , in Proc . of 8th WWW Conference , 1999 .
[ 3 ] TouchGraph http://wwwtouchgraphcom [ 4 ] Y . Takama et al . , “ Finding landmarks in keyword map based on immune network ” , 2nd International Symposium on Advanced Intelligent Systems , 2001 .
943
