AVATAR : An Approach based on Semantic Reasoning to
Recommend Personalized TV Programsfi
Yolanda Blanco yolanda@detuvigoes
José J . Pazos jose@uvigo.es
Alberto Gil agil@detuvigoes
Manuel Ramos mramos@uvigo.es
Ana Fernández
Rebeca P . Díaz avilas@detuvigoes rebeca@detuvigoes
Martín López
Belén Barragáns mlnores@detuvigoes belen@detuvigoes
Department of Telematic Engineering
University of Vigo , 36310 , Spain
ABSTRACT In this paper a TV recommender system called AVATAR ( AdVAnce Telematic search of Audiovisual contents by semantic Reasoning ) is presented . This tool uses the experience gained in the field of the Semantic Web to personalize the TV programs shown to the end users . The main contribution of our system is a process of semantic reasoning carried out on the descriptions of the TV contents —provided by means of metainformation— and on the viewer preferences — contained in personal profiles . Such process allows to diversify the offered suggestions maintaining the personalization , given that the aim is to find contents appealing for the users , which are related semantically to their programs of interest .
Here the framework proposed for this reasoning is introduced , by including ( i ) the OWL ontology chosen to represent the knowledge of our application domain , ( ii ) the organization of the user profiles , ( iii ) the query language LIKO , which is intended to browse the ontology and ( iv ) the semantic relations inferred from the system knowledge base .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Languages , Theory , Management
Keywords Semantic Web , TV recommender system , ontologies , inference of semantic relations
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Digital Television allows the users access a large number of TV programs and interact with applications transmitted along with the traditional audiovisual contents . In this scenario , the viewers fiWork supported by the Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia Research Project TSI2004 03677
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . could feel disoriented as they look for interesting programs among massive amounts of irrelevant information . For that reason , systems whose task is to recommend TV programs personalized according to the user preferences , are clearly necessary .
In last years , the TV recommender systems have become a relevant issue for the research community , causing the appearance of different approaches , such as Bayesian techniques , decision trees , expert systems and neural networks , among others . However , these inference strategies have a common drawback related to the capability of reasoning about the TV content semantics .
So , our approach proposes a recommender , called AVATAR , whose main contribution to the field of the TV personalization tools is the use of the Semantic Web technologies [ 1 ] . The goal is the development of an enhanced system by applying a reasoning process on the semantics of TV contens —provided by means of metadata— and on the user preferences . Such reasoning is able to discover semantic relations among different programs . This way , the viewers are provided with diverse and personalized recommendations . An overview of the architecture proposed for our prototype is described in [ 2 ] , where the use of several knowledge inference methods is shown , mainly Bayesian techniques and the aforementioned semantic reasoning . For its relevance and novelty , in this paper we focus on this reasoning process .
This paper is organized as follows : Sect . 2 describes briefly the framework of reasoning proposed in AVATAR . This framework consists of four elements : ( i ) an OWL ontology that represents the knowledge about the TV domain , ( ii ) the user profiles , ( iii ) a query language for browsing the TV ontology and ( iv ) the inference of semantic relations from the knowledge base of the system . Finally Sect . 3 reports some conclusions and discusses the future work .
2 . THE REASONING FRAMEWORK
2.1 The TV Ontology
To obtain a personalized TV recommender system based on semantic reasoning , a mechanism for representing formally the knowledge of our application domain is required . In the field of the Semantic Web , the ontologies are technologies that represent and share this knowledge efficiently . So , we have conceptualized the TV domain by implementing an ontology according to the OWL language . This ontology allows to identify —by hierarchies of classes and properties— entities related to the TV domain , such as different categories of programs , credits involved in them , etc .
1078 Table 1 : Query operators of the LIKO language
Operators
.
/
>>
<<
>(
> )
Input A class defined in the ontology . A class defined in the ontology . A property of the ontology . A property of the ontology . Instances of classes defined in the ontology . Instances of classes defined in the ontology .
Output
Direct subclasses related to the input class . Direct superclasses referred to the input class . Direct subproperties related to the input property . Direct superproperties referred to the input property . Properties where the input class appears as domain . Properties where the input class appears as range .
To define specific information on which apply the precepts of our semantic reasoning approach , instances of the ontology classes have been included in this knowledge base . These instances are referred to specific TV programs extracted from databases that store abundant information about TV scheduling , such as wwwimdbcom Regarding the properties , note they establish explicit relations among the instances contained in the ontology . The reasoning process proposed in AVATAR takes as starting point these explicit relations and infers other implicit ones from them . 2.2 The User Profiles
As we said in Sect . 2.1 , our system must reason on the viewer preferences . For that reason , a mechanism for representing formally the user profiles is required . Our approach proposes to reuse the knowledge contained in the TV ontology for that purpose .
So , we define the user profiles as OWL ontologies ( which we will refer to as ontology profiles ) , built incrementally as the system receives information about the user viewing behavior . This way , the ontology profiles contain hierarchies of classes , specific instances and properties that are extracted from the TV ontology . In addition , the system also stores the level of interest for a user , referred to each instance defined in his/her ontology profile .
A user modeling based on ontologies allows AVATAR to compare different profiles by applying the knowledge about the TV domain , beyond a simple syntactic comparison tackled in previous approaches . So , our recommender is able to find programs semantically similar to those ones that have been of interest for the user . 2.3 LIKO : A query language
AVATAR takes as starting point the user ontology profile to offer him/her a personalized recommendation . Once the instances defined in this profile have been located in the TV ontology , it is necessary to explore this knowledge base for inferring relations among these programs and the remaining ontology instances . For that purpose , the LIKO query language is introduced in our proposal . Some of its query operators are shown in Table 1 . 2.4 Inference of Semantic Relations
Our approach focuses on identifying several types of semantic relations among the instances contained in our knowledge base .
We are working on a semantic relation named direct semantic path which consists of a set of instances joined by Object properties . For example , assume a TV program presented by a person ( instance of the Credits class ) who has also taken part in other content as director , as shown in the following chain ( the properties appear in square brackets ) :
Quiz Show [ hasPresenter ] Credits [ DirectorOf ] Comedy Movie
Even though there does not exist an explicit Object property between the quiz show and the aforementioned comedy movie , it is not hard to see these contents are related , because the same person is involved in both of them .
After the inference process , the goal is to rank the semantic paths detected by extracting the most relevant ones . The most significant relations involve the instances contained in the user ontologyprofile and other instances related to the former ones from a semantic point of view . We refer to this new relation as semantic nexus . So , there exists a semantic nexus between two instances of classes ( or two properties ) when these classes ( properties ) are siblings or are related by the subsumption principle ( relations “ is a ” ) .
The relations defined here , which are easily discovered by the LIKO query operators shown in Table 1 , support the proposed reasoning process and improve the personalized recommendations presented the users .
3 . CONCLUSIONS AND FURTHER WORK In this paper a TV recommender system has been presented . The main contribution of our tool is the application of a semantic reasoning process on the descriptions of the programs and the user preferences . This approach allows to infer hidden relations in the system knowledge base , taking as starting point the instances contained in an OWL ontology about the TV domain , and the properties that define explicit relations among them .
The existing approaches do not reason about the semantics of the offered programs . This way , the inference and reasoning processes are greatly hampered . Our proposal provides the users with varied and personalized recommendations , by discovering semantic relations among the programs of interest for them and other ones contained in our knowledge base .
On the other hand , note that our proposal of semantic reasoning is not only valid for a TV recommender system like AVATAR , but also it is easily generalizable to other applications of the Semantic Web . It is only necessary a correct conceptualization of the new application domain by an ontology containing specific instances , over which to apply the semantic reasoning process sketched here . Our future work is focused on detecting new semantic relations and improving their ranking process , so that high quality recommendations can be offered to the end users .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] V . Geroimenko and C . Chen . Visualizing the Semantic Web .
Springer Verlag , 2003 .
[ 2 ] Y . Blanco , J . J . Pazos , A . Gil , M . Ramos , A . Fernández , R . P .
Díaz , M . López and B . Barragáns . AVATAR : An advanced Multi Agent Recommender System of Personalized TV Contents by Semantic Reasoning . In Proceedings of 5th International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering , volume 3306 of Lectures Notes in Computer Science , pages 415–421 . Springer Verlag , 2004 .
1079
