A Clustering Method for News Articles Retrieval System
NTT Cyber Solutions Laboratories , NTT
NTT Cyber Solutions Laboratories , NTT
Ryoji Kataoka
Corporation
1 1 Hikarinooka Yokosuka Shi Kanagawa , 239 0847 Japan
Hiroyuki Toda
Corporation
1 1 Hikarinooka Yokosuka Shi Kanagawa , 239 0847 Japan todahiroyuki@labnttcojp kataokaryoji@labnttcojp
ABSTRACT Organizing the results of a search facilitates the user in overviewing the information returned . We regard the clustering task as the tasks of making labels for a list of items and we focus on news articles and propose a clustering method that uses named entity extraction . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Search process , Clustering General Terms Algolithms , Experimentation Keywords Search result organization , Document clustering , Named entitiy 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Services that provide news articles collected from various publishers have become popular . In these services , the latest articles are shown on the top page and allow the user to search for news stored for some period . However , since these services collect the articles from many publishers and since so new news articles are being continuously published , the amount of these contents is becoming so vast that the user can not efficiently find the desired articles .
To solve this problem , Google News1 , groups the news articles that discuss the same news event as indicated by the similarity of the news titles . This can reduce the number of news articles shown to the user . However , this approach presents a flat list of the search results to the user , which is not the most efficient tactic .
Clusty2 extracts the terms ( words or phrases ) that seem to be important in the document lists ( search results or latest news lists ) , as cluster label candidates . The documents are assigned to the appropriate labels to form clusters . The label to which a document is assigned is the label present in the document , As a result , the user can easily overview the list and find the topics that exist there . However , this method has some problems with label creation . One is label quality . Because the appropriate positions may not be extracted ,
1
2 http://newsgooglecom/ http://wwwclustycom/
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . inappropriate terms are selected as labels . Besides , the bases of the labels are unclear and various kinds of labels are often mixed . This makes it awkward for the user to overview a list . Many researchers have recently tackled search result clustering , but the fundamental problem of label readability has not be well solved[1][2 ] .
In this paper , we focus on news articles and propose a search result(or latest news ) clustering method that is based on named entity extraction . 2 . PROPOSED METHOD 2.1 Named entity extraction
The named entity(NE ) extraction task was born in MUC[3 ] of the 1990 ’s . It is the task of extracting the information units important to recognition like names , including people , organizations , and location names , and numeric expressions including time , date , money and percent expressions[5 ] . Accordingly , we consider that NE extraction is the best way to identify label candidates in news articles . In this paper , we use the proper noun expressions among the NE as label candidates . We use Isozaki ’s NE extraction tool[4 ] . 2.2 Algorithm
Our algorithm of making labels for documents list is shown here . We consider that all news articles are first registered with our system . Next , the terms ( named entities ) are extracted in pre processing . When our system accepts a query , the system uses the following algorithm .
1 . Fetching documents list 2 . Listing the terms in the documents list 3 . Selecting the labels from listed terms 4 . Organizing the labels by NE category
At first , we fetch the documents list , for example , search results or latest news articles . Second , we list the terms that are extracted from the documents in the documents list . Each term has its category information .
In the third process , we first calculate the score of each term using label selecting criterion that based on two ideas “ terms that are useful in overviewing the results and efficiently locating the desired documents will not be too rare or too common ” and “ terms that are related to the query are useful as labels ” . The criterion is represented by the following equation .
Criterion = DF R,i × log(
|R| DF R,i
) × DF R,i/|R| DF D,i/|D|
DF R,i is document frequency of term i in the search result R . DF D,i is document frequency of term i in document collection D . The terms that have high score are selected
988 Figure 2 : Evaluation Result
The other is whether the labels are related to the relevant documents . Accordingly , our evaluation basically examined the accuracy of the search results using the labels that the user could be assumed to select . The labels that also existed in “ Useful Keywords List ” are assumed to be selected . The accuracy is calculated by the average precision of the top 10 results when the labels are selected .
The results are shown in Figure 2 . The proposed method has much higher accuracy than the ordinary method . We can also see that if we analyze about 100 documents and use the proposed criterion to select the labels , the resulting labels yield high accuracy ( more than 70% ) .
On the other hand , we also evaluated the efficiency of the label organization method . To evaluate this , we constructed a news search system for Japanese latest news that can switch between different label generation methods . One is the proposed method , which organizes the labels by category ; the other is the ordinary method which simply lists the labels . Subjects were given a simple questionnaire that asked “ which method is more useful ? ” The result of this questionnaire was that 85.6%(113/132 ) said that the proposed method was more useful than the ordinary method . 4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we regard the clustering task as the tasks of making labels for a list of items and we focus on news articles and propose a clustering method that uses NE extraction . We proposed a label selecting criterion and a label organization method . Evaluations indicated that the proposed methods are more useful than the current methods . Our evaluation used only Japanese newspaper articles , but our method is not language specific and so it could be used to handle other languages . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Zeng , H . J . , He , Q . C . , Chen , Z . , Ma , W . Y . and Ma , J . :
“ Learning to Cluster Web Search Results . ” Proceedings of SIGIR’04 , pp.210 217 , 2004 .
[ 2 ] Kummamuru , K . , Lotlikar , R . , Roy , S . , Signal , K . and
Krishnapuram , R . : “ A hierarchical monothetic document clustering algorithm for summarization and browsing search results . ” Proceedings of WWW’04 , pp.658 665 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] Grishman , R . and Sundheim B . : “ Message Understanding
Conference 6 : A Brief History . ” Proceedings of COLING’96 , pp.466 471 , 1996 .
[ 4 ] Isozaki , H . and Kazawa , H . : “ Efficient Support Vector
Classifiers for Named Entity Recognition . ” Proceedings of COLING’02 , pp390 396 , 2002 .
[ 5 ] Sekine , S . : “ Named Entity : History and Future . ” http://csnyuedu/ sekine/papers/NEsurvey200402.pdf , 2004 .
[ 6 ] Sekine , S . and Isahara , H . : “ IREX Project Overview . ”
Proceedings of the IREX Workshop , 1999 .
Figure 1 : Examples of labels ( Query : “ President Bush ” ) as labels . More precisely , the labels that construct similar clusters are combined using the similarity of clusters and labels but we will discuss this point in another paper . In organizing the labels process , the labels are organized by the categories given by NE extraction , which allows the user to easily overview the search results . Furthermore , to ensure that the index provides not only easy overviewing but also efficient document location , we define a category ranking criterion . The criterion is based on three considerations . ( cid:127 ) Clearness of category : Paucity of overlapping documents between each label . It is calculated as the ratio between distinct number and total number of the documents related to the labels . ( cid:127 ) Equality of category size : Equality of the number of the documents related to each label . It is calculated by average entropy . ( cid:127 ) Exhaustiveness of category : The percentage of the documents in the search result that can be labeled . It is calculated from the ratio between the number of search results and the number of the labeled documents .
In this paper , we integrate these criteria to realize cate gory ranking . Examples are shown in Figure 1 . 3 . EVALUATION
In this section , we evaluate the above label selecting cri terion and the efficiency of label organization .
In the evaluation of label selecting criterion , we used the Japanese newspaper collection of IREX[6 ] . The collection covers 2 years(1994 and 1995 ) and holds about 200,000 articles . We used 30 search topics and the relevance judgment data for the topics as defined by IREX . Queries to the system were constructed using DESCRIPTION3 . We also created the “ Useful Keywords List ” , a collection of useful keywords to overview the relevant documents for each topic4 . We consider that the label selecting criterion should be estimated from two viewpoints . One is whether users select the labels . This is related to label readability and meaning .
3
DESCRIPTION is defined for each topic ; each expression consists of 2 or 3 nouns . We extract the meaningful terms from DESCRIPTION and link them by the “ or ” operator . 4
To make this list , we showed each set of relevant documents and a topic to 5 subjects , and each subject selected the most suitable keywords . Keywords that were selected by more than 3 subjects were added to the keyword list . The result was a “ Useful Keywords List ” for each topic .
989
