Preferential Walk : Towards Efficient and Scalable Search in
Unstructured Peer to Peer Networks
China Knowledge Grid Research Group , Key Lab of Intelligent Information Processing
Hai Zhuge , Xue Chen and Xiaoping Sun
Institute of Computing Technology , Chinese Academy of Sciences
Beijing , 100080 , China Zhuge@ictaccn this paper proposes a
ABSTRACT To improve search efficiency and reduce unnecessary traffic in Peerto Peer ( P2P ) networks , trust based probabilistic search algorithm , called preferential walk ( P Walk ) . Every peer ranks its neighbors according to searching experience . The highly ranked neighbors have higher probabilities to be queried . Simulation results show that P Walk is not only efficient , but also robust against malicious behaviors . Furthermore , we measure peers’ rank distribution and draw implications .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : G.3 [ Mathematics of Computing ] : Probability and Statistics – Experimental design , Probabilistic algorithms . General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation . Keywords P2P , search , probability , trust , power law .
1 . INTRODUCTION The fundamental challenge in Peer to Peer ( P2P ) computing is how to provide efficient and scalable search services in a large scale , open and dynamic environment . However , current search techniques used in existing P2P systems are not highly efficient or scalable . For example , the flooding search causes an overwhelming amount of traffic , which makes the Gnutella being far from scalable . The random walk can reduce traffic volume by forwarding queries to only a subset of neighbors [ 4 ] . But it cannot achieve high search efficiency due to the randomness nature in choosing neighbors . In reality , peers are very heterogeneous in capability ( storage , processing power , and bandwidth , etc ) , availability ( the quality of being present or ready for immediate use [ 3] ) , and reliability ( malicious peers always exist , and they can misbehave in many ways [ 5] ) . Thus , in an attempt to incorporate peers’ heterogeneity into the design of search mechanism , we propose preferential walk ( P Walk ) , a trust based probabilistic search technique in an unstructured P2P network . A unique characteristic of our design is the utilization of a trust evaluation method to rate neighbors according to the feedback from previous searches . Neighboring peers assign each other trust ranks . During routing , peers preferentially forward queries to the
This work was supported by National Science Foundation ( 60273020 and 70271007 ) and National Basic Research Program of China ( 973 no2003CB317001 )
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . highly ranked neighbors . 2 . DESIGN OF P WALK In P Walk , neighboring peers assign each other trust ranks . The trust rank for peer B at its neighbor A is a measure of how likely peer A considers that peer B will return the satisfactory resources when forwarding a query to B . The rank value is initialized to zero , and gradually updated based on one step feedback mechanism , namely , when node B replies A with a QueryHit message , after validation , A will add one to peer B ’s rank value . Suppose peer A has s neighbors N1 , N2,… , Ns ( s ≥ 0 ) , and ri indicates the rank peer A assigns to its neighbor Ni . Then , peer A will choose neighbor Ni as its query “ receiver ” with the forwarding probability :
= p i
)
( + r +∑ r i ( r n s n
= 1
) r
The risk factor r must satisfy the constraint r ＞– ri ( i = 1,2,… , s ) to ensure that the forwarding probabilities are positive for all neighbors . The non zero risk factor reflects some instances when a peer ’s rank cannot truly reflect its behaviors . For example , a malicious node may be in disguise and behave as a good one in the beginning , and other peers thus regard it as a good neighbor and assign it a relatively high rank . When r = 0 , the forwarding probability for each neighbor is in direct proportion to its rank . Note that into a normalized converts rate this s
( r n
+
) r
∑ n
=
1 probability , thus , p1 + p2 + … + ps = 1 . Every neighbor has a certain probability to be the receiver . The higher the rank , the higher the probability .
Figure 1 . P Walk procedure from peer A to peer J
Figure 1 explains the P walk procedure . Query forwarding path follows the direction of the bold black arrow line until finding corresponding resource at peer J , and the red arrowhead line denotes one step feedback from J to its predecessor F . Changes of the ranks and probabilities for each peer are summarized in the right chart .
882 3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION We design a Gnutella simulator based on the Barabási Albert model with 1000 fixed peers [ 2 ] , and the generated topology follows a twosegment power law degree distribution1 similar to the observed trend in [ 6 ] . Each peer generates 200 queries and issues one query per time slot . Peers may be good or malicious in the network and malicious behaviors are designed based on [ 5 ] . We also simulate three other related algorithms for comparison : ( 1 ) Random walk ( R Walk ) : a peer forwards queries to a randomly chosen neighbor at each hop [ 4 ] .
( 2 ) Max Degree biased walk ( D Walk ) : a peer forwards queries to the highest degree neighbor at each hop [ 1 ] .
( 3 ) Max Feedback biased walk ( F Walk ) : a peer forwards queries to the highest feedback neighbor at each hop [ 7 ] .
( 4 ) Preferential walk ( P walk ) : a peer ranks each of its neighbors , and then preferentially forwards queries to the highly ranked neighbor with a high probability at each hop .
3.1 Simulation Results Figure 2(a ) shows the comparisons for four algorithms’ success rates2 as TTL varies . Figure 2(b ) shows a metric for query response time — the number of queries that have successfully found resources at each hop . The findings drawn from the simulations are as follows . P walk achieves a very high query success rate and a fast response time . Peers using P walk to forward queries are most likely to find the desired resources .
P walk is the most robust . The searching processes are guided by the ranks peers assigned to each other . P walk minimizes malicious behaviors by reducing the messages forwarded to lowly ranked neighbors .
P walk exhibits the self learning ability , which ensures that each peer ’s rank on its neighbors is always up to date . Thus , the latterly issued queries consume clearly shorter hops to find resources than the formerly issued one , which reduces large volumes of query and reply traffic .
3.2 Rank Analysis The approach assigns a collective rank for each peer by averaging all the ranks given by its neighbors . Then , a collective rank distribution is defined as the number of peers whose collective ranks fall in the same intervals . The inset of Figure 3(a ) illustrates an approximately linear relationship between each peer ’s collective rank and its degree . Generally , the more the degree , the higher the rank , and high degree peers are in the minority . Figure 3(b ) shows the collective rank distribution exhibits a power law like trend when plotted on a double logarithmic scale . These observations accord with what we expect . In real systems , there are only a small number of high degree peers with server like characteristics but large amount of peers are client like [ 6 ] .
1 The degree distribution is a statistical property for a network topology denoting the number of peers that have i ( i = 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , … ) open connections .
2 Success rate is a ratio of the number of successfully completed queries to the total queries .
4 . CONCLUSION This paper presents the design and evaluation of P walk , a trustbased probabilistic search method in a Gnutella like P2P networks . Comparisons show that P walk achieves a high query success rate and a fast response time while greatly reduces traffic volumes and alleviates malicious behaviors . The simplicity and scalability of Pwalk make it feasible to be applied in large scale systems [ 8 , 9,10 ] .
Figure 2 . Performance comparisons
Figure 3 . Collective rank distribution 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors thank all team members of China Knowledge Grid Research Group ( http://kgictaccn ) and Knowledge Grid Center ( http://wwwknowledgegridnet ) 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] LA Adamic and RM Lukose , etc . Search in power law networks , PhysRevE , vol.64 , pp.46135 46143 , 2001 .
[ 2 ] ALBarabási and R.Albert , Emergence of scaling in random networks , Science , vol.286 , pp.509 512 , 1999 .
[ 3 ] R.Bhagwan , S.Savage and GM Voelker Understanding availability , IPTPS , 2003 .
[ 4 ] C.Gkantsidis , M.Mihail and A.Saberi , Random walks in Peer to Peer networks , INFOCOM HongKong , China , 2004 .
[ 5 ] M . Mishra , Cascade : an attack resistant peer to peer system , the
3rd New York Metro Area Networking Workshop , 2003 .
[ 6 ] M.Ripeanu and I.Foster , Mapping the Gnutella network : macroscopic properties of large scale peer to peer systems , IPTPS , Cambridge , MA , 2002 .
[ 7 ] B.Yang and H.Garcia Molina , Efficient search in peer to peer networks , ICDCS , Vienna , Austria , 2002 .
[ 8 ] H.Zhuge , The Knowledge Grid , World Scientific Co . , 2004 . [ 9 ] H.Zhuge , China's E Science Knowledge Grid Environment ,
IEEE Intelligent Systems , vol.19 , pp.13–17 , 2004 .
[ 10 ] H.Zhuge , The Semantic Grid : Scientific Issues , Architecture and Methodology . Communications of the ACM , Apr . 2005 .
883
