Transforming Web Contents into a Storybook with Dialogues and Animations
Kaoru Sumi
National Institute of Information and
Communications Technology
3 5 Hikaridai , Seika cho , Soraku gun
Kyoto 619 0289 , Japan
+81 774 98 6880 kaoru@nictgojp
Abstract This paper describes a medium , called Interactive e Hon , for helping children to understand contents from the Web . It works by transforming electronic contents into an easily understandable “ storybook world . ” In this world , easy to understand contents are generated by creating 3D animations that include contents and metaphors , and by using a child parent model with dialogue expression and a question answering style comprehensible to children
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.5 [ Art and humanities ] : linguistics General Terms : Design Keywords : Information presentation , animation , dialogue , media conversion , agent .
1 . INTRODUCTION This paper describes a medium , called Interactive e Hon , for helping children to understand difficult contents . It works by transforming electronic contents into an easily understandable “ storybook world . ” Interactive e Hon uses animations to help children understand contents . Visual data attract a child ’s interest , and the use of concrete examples like metaphors facilitates understanding , because each person learns according to his or her own unique mental model [ 1][2 ] , formed according to one ’s background . For example , if a user poses a question about something , a system that answers with a concrete example in accordance with the user ’s specialization would be very helpful . for children
The barriers include difficult expressions , prerequisite background knowledge , and so on . Our goal is to remove these barriers and build bridges to facilitate children ’s understanding and curiosity . The system would be understanding support for children , and explanation support for parents to content .
2 . Interactive e Hon Interactive e Hon transforms the natural language(NL ) of electronic contents into a storybook world with animations and dialogue style explanation . Thus , in this storybook world , easy tounderstand contents are created by paraphrasing the original contents with a colloquial style , by creating animations that
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Katsumi Tanaka Kyoto University
Graduate School of Informatics
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo
Kyoto 606 8501 , Japan include contents and metaphors , and by using a child parent agents with dialogue expression and a question answering style comprehensible to children .
Interactive e Hon is a kind of word translation medium that provides expression through the use of 3D animation and dialogue explanation in order to help children to understand Web contents or other electronic resources , For a given content , an animation plays in synchronization with a dialogue explanation , which is spoken by a voice synthesizer .
Our system presents agents that mediate a user ’s understanding through intelligent information presentation . In the proposed model , a parent agent ( mother or father ) and a child agent have a conversation while watching a “ movie ” about the contents , and the user ( or users in the case of a child and parent together ) watches the agents .
Natural language processing(NLP ) in our system is based on text information containing semantic tags that follow the Global Document Annotation ( GDA ) 1tagging standard , along with other , additional semantic tags . Tags with several semantic meanings for every morpheme , such as “ length , ” “ weight , ” “ organization , ” and so forth , are used . Recently , the Semantic Web and its associated activities have adopted tagged documentation . Tagging is also expected be applied in the next generation of Web documentation . For transforming contents into dialogues and animations , we first make a list that includes subjects , objects , predicates , and modifiers from the text information of content . It also means to shorten and divide long and complicated sentences . Then , by collecting these words and connecting them in a friendly , colloquial style , conversational sentences are made . In addition , the system prepares repetition by the conversational partner by changing phrases according It prepares explanations through abstraction and concretization based on ontologies and semantic tags , meaning that it adds explanations of background knowledge . In the list , a subject is treated as a character , and a predicate is treated as the action in an animation . An Object is also treated as a character , and a predicate is treated as the passive action in an animation . One animation and one dialogue are generated by each list , and these are then played at the same time . thesaurus . to a
1 http://i content.org/GDA Internet authors can annotate their electronic documents with a common , standard tag set , allowing machines to automatically recognize the semantic and pragmatic structures of the documents .
1076 Many characters and actions have been recorded in our database . A character or an action is a one to many relationship . Various character names are linked to characters . Various action names are linked to actions . Actions can be shared among characters in order to prepare a commoditized skeleton of characters
If a user does not know the meaning of the term , “ president , ” it would be helpful to show a dialogue explanation that “ a president is similar to a king in the sense of being the person who governs a nation , ” together with an animation of a king .
The explanation is shown according to the results of searching world view databases . The process of searching is used in explaining the dialogue .
The system ’s world view databases describe the common world , storybooks ( which children have in common ) , insects , flowers , stars , etc . Which world should be used depends on a user ’s curiosity , which is acquired from the user ’s input in the main menu . The system compares the predicates of the common worldview and the user ’s world view including synonyms , and then , it shows the animation of the metaphor . 3 . APPLICATION TO WEB CONTENTS For example , we might try to transform the actual contents of “ the origin of the teddy bear ’s name ” from the web into an animation and dialogue ( Fig 1 ) .
The system first makes a list of subjects , objects , predicates , and modifiers from the content ’s text information ; it then divides sentences . For example , it makes some lines of the list from the long sentence as below : ( Original sentence ) “ But , the president refused to shoot the little bear and helped it . ” ( List ) S : President , P : shoot , O : little bear S : President , P : refuse , O : to shoot the little bear S : President , P : help , O : little bear
The system then generates dialogue lines one by one , putting them in the order of a modifier of a subject , a subject , a modifier of an object , an object , a modifier of a predicate , and a predicate , according to the line units in the list . To the characteristics of storytelling , the system uses past tense and speaks differently depending on whether the parent agent is a mother or a father . Sometimes the original content uses reverse conjunction , as with “ but ” or “ however ” in the following examples : “ but… . what do you think happens after that ? ” ; “ I can’t guess . Tell me the story . ” In such cases , the parent and child agents speak by using questions and answers to spice up the dialogue . Also , at the ending of every scene , the system repeats the same meaning with different words by using synonyms .
In generating an animation , the system combines animations of a subject as a character , an object as a passive character , and a predicate as an action , according to the line units in the list .
For example , in the case of original sentence shown above , first , president ( character ) shoot ( action ) little bear ( character ; passive ) is shot
( action ; passive ) are selected . After that , president ( character ) refuse ( action ) is selected . Finally , president ( character ) help ( action ) little bear ( character ; passive ) is helped
( action ; passive ) are selected . An animation plays in synchronization with a dialogue explanation .
4 . CONCLUSION We have introduced Interactive e Hon , a system for facilitating children ’s understanding of electronic contents by transforming them into a “ storybook world . ” We have conducted media transformation of actual Web contents . Interactive e Hon can generate satisfactory explanations of contents through both animations and dialogues that can be readily understood by children [ 3 ] .
Reference terms and verbal omission of a subject , which are open problems in NLP , still remain as problems in our system . As a tentative solution , we manually embedded word references in the GDA tags . A fully automatic process knowing which words to reference will depend on further progress in NLP .
As future work , we will consider expanding the databases of animations and words , and applying Interactive e Hon to several other kinds of contents .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Philip N . Johnson Laird : Mental Models , Cambridge :
Cambridge University Press . Cambridge , Mass . : Harvard University Press ( 1983 ) .
[ 2 ] D . A . Norman , The Psychology of Everyday Things , Basic
Books ( 1988 )
[ 3 ] Kaoru Sumi and Katsumi Tanaka , Interactive e Hon :
Translating Web Contents into a Storybook World , AISB 2005 Symposium on Conversational Informatics , To appear , 2005 .
Fig 1 . A sample view from Interactive e Hon .
1077
