Web Log Mining with Adaptive Support Thresholds
Jian Chih Ou
Department of Electrical
Engineering
National Taiwan University
Taipei , Taiwan , ROC alex@arboreentuedutw
Chang Hung Lee BenQ Corporation 18 , Jihu Road , Neihu Taipei , Taiwan , ROC
MichaelCHLee@BenQ.com
Ming Syan Chen
Department of Electrical
Engineering
National Taiwan University
Taipei , Taiwan , ROC mschen@cceentuedutw
ABSTRACT With the fast increase in Web activities , Web data mining has recently become an important research topic . However , most previous studies of mining path traversal patterns are based on the model of a uniform support threshold without taking into consideration such important factors as the length of a pattern , the positions of Web pages , and the importance of a particular pattern , etc . In view of this , we study and apply the Markov chain model to provide the determination of support threshold of Web documents . Furthermore , by properly employing some techniques devised for joining reference sequences , a new mining procedure of Web traversal patterns is proposed in this paper . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Databases Applications– Data mining .
General Terms Algorithms Keywords Web mining , path traversal pattern , Markov model 1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the rapid expansion of WWW , Web data mining has recently become an important research topic and is receiving an increasing amount of research interest from both academic and industrial environments . Among others , an important class of web data mining problem is mining of path traversal patterns , that can be used to decide the next likely web page requests based on significant statistical correlations . If such a sequence appears frequently enough , then this sequence indicates a frequent traversal pattern . However , most previous studies of path traversal pattern mining are based on the model of a uniform support threshold without taking into consideration such important factors as the length of the pattern , the positions of Web pages , etc . For instance , consider a Web site shown in Figure 1 and a database that contains four sequences : ABD , AB , AC , ABF P . Suppose the minimum support is 2 . Web pages A and B at higher levels of Web site are deemed frequent in
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
A
B
Home
Hardware
Audio
Video
D
E
F
C
Software
Processor
G Filter design H
Digital audio software
I
Digital video software
Embedded audio
PCI audio
PCMCIA audio
PCI video
ADSP 218x
DSP5630x
Philips TriMedia
Dolby software
MPEG software
MPEG software
JPEG software
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
Figure 1 : A site map of a real Web site this case , which might , however , be due more to their locations than to their contents . As a result , a low support threshold will lead to lots of uninteresting patterns derived while a high support threshold may cause some interesting patterns with lower supports to be ignored . Hence , different support thresholds are deemed necessary for Web pages at different levels of Web sites .
2 . DETERMINATION OF ADAPTIVE
THRESHOLD
Definition 1 : The adaptive support threshold of the Web page p is defined as apt_sup(p ) . The adaptive support of a reference sequence c , denoted by AptSup(c ) , is the lowest apt_sup value among the pages in the reference sequence c , ie , AptSup(c ) = min p∈c {apt_sup(p)} .
The definition of adaptive threshold has been given above . However , without specific knowledge , it is very difficult and intricate for users to set adaptive threshold for every single Web page . If the support threshold is set too high , users cannot obtain enough rules . Therefore , users have to set a lower threshold and conduct the mining again , which may or may not lead to results of better quality . If the threshold is too small , there may be an excessive number of rules for the users and the runtime may be unacceptably long . To overcome this problem , we need an automatic and reasonable methodology to provide the determination of support threshold of Web documents . Therefore , we introduce the general probabilistic framework based on the Markov chains which can be used to determine the adaptive threshold of each Web page in this section .
1188 A Markov chain is a discrete time stochastic process defined over a set of states S in terms of a matrix P of transition probabilities . The entry Pij in the transition probability matrix P is the probability that the next state will be j , given that the current state is i . Thus , for all i , j ∈ S , we have 0 ≤ Pij ≤ 1 , andj Pij = 1 . The surfing on a Web can be viewed as a Markov chain whose states correspond to the pages and whose transition probability matrix entry Pij is defined by the probability of following a hyperlink from page i to page j . We will denote by Xt the page surfing at time t . And for all pages i , j contained in the Web , define the t step transition probability as Pij = P rob[Xt = j | X0 = i ] . The mean recurrence time of page i is denoted as µi . Moreover , 1/µi represents the proportion of times , in the long run , the surfer will be in page i . The following lemma will give a straight way of finding 1/µi . Lemma 1 : For any two pages i , j contained in the Web , the transition probability matrix entry Pij is defined as follows :
Pij =
1 od(i ) 0 if there exists a hyperlink from i to j otherwise where od(i ) is the out degree of page i , ie , the number of hyperlink that is incident from page i .
If all the pages in the Web satisfy the following properties : 1 . All pages in the Web are irreducible , ie,there is a directed path from every page to every other page .
2 . All pages in the Web are aperiodic , ie , for all i , j , there are paths of all possible length , except for a finite set of path lengths that may be missing .
Then , for all pages i , the sequence ( 1/µi ) will converge to the principal eigenvector of P T , that is the transpose of the transition probability matrix P . In the interest of space , the proof of Lemma 1 is omitted here and can be deduced from [ 3 ] .
However , the above model is too ideal to match the real situation of a Web , because there are many Web pages without any outlinks . Further , directed paths incurred in real Web pages may lead into a cycle . To remedy this , a lowprobability transition e [ 1 ] can be involved in the above model .
Consequently , we have the adaptive support threshold of the newly identified dynamic mining model as the following formulas : apt_sup(p ) = m ∗ |D|/up if m ∗ |D|/up ≥ Sth ( 1 ) apt_sup(p ) = Sth if m ∗ |D|/up ≤ Sth , where |D| is the size of the database , up is the mean recurrence time of page p , and m ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] is a parameter to determine the relationship between the interestingness supports of Web pages and their the mean recurrence time . Sth is employed for pruning some obsolete rules whose Web pages have very low expected occurrence frequencies .
3 . CONSTRUCTION OF MINING
PROCEDURE
The new mining procedure generalizes the F S algorithm for finding frequent reference sequences proposed in [ 2 ] . Similar to algorithm F S , frequent Web path traversal patterns are generated by using multiple passes over the database and the large reference sequences Lk found in the ( k − 1)th pass are used to generate the candidate reference sequences Ck . The candidate generation procedure of C2 just differs from function Level2 candidate gen()[4 ] in the last step , in view of the differences between sets and sequences . It is noted that the new candidate generation procedure of Ck(k > 2 ) adopts a novel join process which is different from that proposed in [ 2 ] . In [ 2 ] , two distinct sequences from Lk−1 , say r1 , , rk−1 and s1 , , sk−1 , are joined to form a k reference sequence if either r1 , , rk−1 contains s1 , , sk−2 or s1 , , sk−1 contains r1 , , rk−2 . To address this issue , we devise in this paper three joinable forms , namely head_join , mid_join and tail_join forms . Definition 2 : The minimal support page of a reference sequence r is MSP ( r ) = {p|p ∈ r , apt_sup(p ) = AptSup(r)} . Definition 3 : Suppose r is a k reference sequence which contains r1 , , rk .
( i ) If r1 /∈ MSP ( r ) and rk /∈ MSP ( r ) , then r is one reference sequence of mid_join f orm , which can be generated from r1 , , rk−1 and r2 , , rk . ( ii ) If r1 ∈ MSP ( r ) , then r is one reference sequence of head_join f orm , which can be generated from r1 , , rk−2 , rk−1 and r1 , , rk−2 , rk . ( iii ) If rk ∈ MSP ( r ) , then r is one reference sequence of tail_join f orm , which can be generated from r1 , r3 , rk and r2 , r3 , rk−2 , rk .
First , by using the union of above mentioned three join forms , we join Lk−1with Lk−1 to obtain Ck in the join step . Then , in the prune step , we delete all sets of references c ∈ Ck which are infrequent . Finally , it returns a superset of the set of all frequent k references .
4 . CONCLUSION
This paper broadened the horizon of frequent path traversal pattern mining by introducing a flexible model of mining Web traversal patterns with adaptive thresholds . Specifically , we apply the Markov chain model to provide the determination of support threshold of Web documents . By properly employing some techniques devised for joining reference sequences , a new mining procedure of Web traversal patterns was also proposed in this paper .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Brin and L . Page . The anatomy of a large scale hypertextual web search engine . Computer Networks and ISDN Systems , 30(1—7):107—117 , 1998 .
[ 2 ] M S Chen , J S Park , and P . S . Yu . Efficient Data
Mining for Path Traversal Patterns . IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 10(2):209—221 , April 1998 .
[ 3 ] G . R . Grimmett and D . R . Stirzaker . Probability and Random processes . Oxford Science Publications , 2nd edition , 1992 .
[ 4 ] B . Liu , W . Hsu , and Y . Ma . Mining Association Rules with Multiple Minimum Supports . Proc . of 1999 Int . Conf . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , August 1999 .
1189
