WebRogue : Virtual Presence in Web Sites
Alessandro Soro asoro@crs4.it Davide Carboni dcarboni@crs4.it
Ivan Marcialis ivan@crs4.it
Gavino Paddeu gavino@crs4.it
CRS4 › Center for Advanced Studies , Research and Development in Sardinia
Parco Scienti.co e Tecnologico , POLARIS
Pula ( CA ) , Italy
ABSTRACT WebRogue is an application for virtual presence over the Web . It provides the Web Browser with a chat subwindow that allows users connected to the same Web site to meet , share opinions and cooperate in a totally free , non moderated and uncensored environment . Each time the user loads a Web page in the Web Browser , WebRogue opens a discussion channel in a centralized server application , that is completely decoupled from the Web server , using the URL of the Web site as a key . Thus whenever a new page is loaded the user can see who is connected , as if entering a physical site . Interactivity is supported by means of two type of commands : comunication commands allow synchronous interaction as with chat or instant messaging software ; Social commands allow cooperation : group surfing , exchange of visit cards and wait in line .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H53 [ Group and Organization Interfaces ] : Computersupported cooperative work , Synchronous interaction .
General Terms : Human Factors .
Keywords : Web , Chat , Web Communities , Virtual Presence .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Every day people use the Internet to communicate , discuss , share and find information . Every special need is served by a particular application : the Web is possibly the prime and best known source of information , almost every company and organization has its own Web site that is the digital analogy of the company ’s estabilishment . Synchronous communication is performed through Instant Messaging and chat applications : Microsoft ’s MSN and AIM are among the best known examples of such tools . Other appli
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10(cid:150)14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1›59593›051›5/05/0005 . cations exist that help people cooperate and communicate , for example Jybe ( http://wwwjybecom/ ) lets users surf the Web in groups , portal systems like Php Nuke ( http://phpnuke.org/ ) have addon modules that support chatting and so on . These different applications address different aspects of human interaction , but , as long as they don’t interoperate , they all exist in parallel , separated worlds . If we accept the analogy of a Web site being the digital equivalent of a company ’s estabilishment , then we must provide our visitors with a tool to meet and communicate , otherwise our Web site will appear as a desert to our guests . WebRogue is an application for virtual presence over the Web . It provides the Web Browser with a chat subwindow that allows users connected to the same Web site to meet , share opinions and cooperate in a totally free , non moderated and uncensored environment . Each time the user loads a Web page in the Web Browser , WebRogue opens a discussion channel in a centralized server application , that is completely decoupled from the Web server , using the URL of the Web site as a key . Thus whenever a new page is loaded the user can see who is connected , as if entering a physical site . Interactivity is supported by means of two type of commands : comunication commands allow synchronous interaction as with chat or instant messaging software ; users can decide to talk in couples , or simply speak loud , so that anyone that is watching the same page can listen , or even scream so that everybody on the web site can listen . Social commands allow cooperation : two or more users can decide to form a group and surf together , exchange visit cards and wait in line to talk to another user that is currently engaged or away from the keyboard .
2 . ARCHITECTURE
WebRogue enables the birth of online communities around web sites of interest : its prime goal is to allow synchronous communication among users connected to the same Web site , in a free , unmoderated and uncensored fashion . Unlike typical chat or instant messaging software , WebRogue users are not supposed to subscribe any service or to authenticate , and there is no need to contact a dedicated service to open a channel for discussion . Users must simply surf the Web using their favourite Web browser : a subwindow shows other users connected to the same site and allows chatting and cooperation . As users with similar interests are likely
932 prudence . To avoid being annoyed users can choose not to listen screams , but there is no way to prevent people from screaming , we designed WebRogue with freedom in mind : users can at any time decide to ignore or run away boring people , but nobody can deny to others the right to speak .
WebRogue users can do more than chatting : several commands can be imagined ( and easily implemented ) to support cooperation . Social commands supported so far are : follow Users can decide to surf the Web in groups , whenever a member of the group loads a new page , a message is sent by WebRogue to the other browsers that will change location accordingly . handshake Just like in common instant messaging applications , WebRogue can keep a list of contacts . After handshaking with another user it is possible to see if he or she is online and send a message even if the users are connected to different pages . wait Users can wait in line to get attention by someone . For example to talk to the clerk in an e commerce Web site . The wait command supports this necessity .
Communication and social commands are mutuated respectively from chat software and role playing games , but in WebRogue they appear under a new light because users don’t have to know in advance or to connect to any specific service to communicate and cooperate . A WebRogue user can decide to chat or to follow anyone he or she meets in a Web site . We can say that WebRogue brings people inside Web sites , as it populates Web sites with users , givin them the opportunity to talk and cooperate .
3 . CONCLUSIONS
WebRogue lets Web surfers meet in Web sites , just like people meet in real life , and interact by means of communication and social commands , without any control or censorship . It is designed with the spirit of free and spontaneous association in mind , to encourage users to share information and opinions . Unlike chat or IM software users are not supposed to subscribe any service or to authenticate , and there is no need to contact a dedicated service to open a channel for discussion . As users with similar interests are likely to consult the same web sites , the web site itself becomes a meeting point for them . WebRogue is an early work in progress , a pre release for Mozilla exists but further development is needed to completely support the functionalities described . Porting to MS internet Explorer and Firefox are planned as a next step . To grant freedom a peer to peer communication layer would be preferrable to a client server architecture . The communication protocol is based on RDF for ease of implementation , an open , standard protocol like Jabber ( http://wwwjabberorg ) would better suite our idea of free software . WebRogue is an open source software , to get more information , download the latest build , or participate in its development contact the authors or see http://wwwcrs4it:8000/webrogue This work was partially supported by MAPS ( Agile Methodologies for Software Production ) research project , contract/grant sponsor : FIRB research fund of MIUR , contract/grant number : RBNE01JRK8 .
Figure 1 : Mozilla with The WebRogue sub window to consult the same web sites , the web site itself becomes a meeting point for them . WebRogue is a client server application : an add in for the Web browser ( a Mozilla implementation is available ) stays on the client side and provides a chat bar and contact list ; a client to client communication layer ( independent from specific Web servers ) runs on a known centralized server and collects and delivers messages to the clients . This solution can scale up to a large number of users and works well through firewalls , thus represents the simplest and more effective design , at least for a prototype implementation . The client application runs inside the Web browser , and thus can listen to events such as location change . Every time the user loads a new page , the WebRogue client opens ( or joins if it already exists ) a discussion channel on the WebRogue server using the URL as key . Consequently whoever downloads the same Web page will join the same WebRogue discussion channel . Once connected to a discussion channel users can send messages or cooperate in several ways : messages can be sent directly to other users , to the page ( i.e to all the users connected to a page ) , or to the Web site . It is important to underline that the WebRogue server is not related in any way to the specific Web servers , but it runs on a dedicated , well known server . Thus Web site owners have absolutely no control on who uses WebRogue on their page , and what can be said . No moderation or censorship is possible , no one can be denied access or granted a privileged podium . Everyone is allowed to say everything he or she thinks on whatever subject , to anyone . WebRogue users can communicate using three different commands . say sends a message to all the users that are watching the same page . We consider a Web page as the analogous of a room , where the Web site represents the estabilishment of the company . Messages sent using the say command are heard by anyone in the same page , as if speaking loud in the same room . whisper sends a message to a specific user , the message is encrypted for privacy and can be signed for reliability . scream sends a message to all the users connected to the Web site . This command should be used with great
933
