Learning How to Learn with Web Contents Shinobu Hasegawa Akihiro Kashihara
The University of Electro Communications
1 5 1 , Chofugaoka , Chofu Tokyo , 182 8585 , JAPAN
+81 424 43 5278 kasihara@iceuecacjp
Research Center for Distance Learning , JAIST
1 1 , Asahidai , Tatsunokuchi Ishikawa , 923 1292 , JAPAN
+81 761 51 1435
Hasegawa@jaistacjp
ABSTRACT Learning Web contents requires learners not only to navigate the Web pages to construct their own knowledge from the contents learned at and between the pages , but also to control their own navigation and knowledge construction processes . However , it is not so easy to control the learning processes . The main issue addressed is how to help learners learn how to learn with Web contents . This paper discusses how to design a meta learning tool .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 Hypertext/Hypermedia – navigation , user issues .
[ Information
Interfaces and
Presentation ] :
General Terms Design , Human Factors .
Keywords Meta Learning , Navigational Learning , Web Contents , Hyperspace , Learning Affordance .
1 . INTRODUCTION Learning how to learn , which is called meta learning , often contributes to learning more effectively and efficiently and to developing learning skill [ 1 ] . In this paper , we focus on metalearning on the Web .
The Web can be viewed as a promising learning platform , which opens up new possibility for learning . In particular , Web contents have a potential beyond textbooks . Web contents generally provide learners with hyperspace where they can navigate the Web pages in a self directed way . The self directed navigation involves making a sequence of the Web pages , which is called navigation path . It also involves constructing knowledge , in which the learners would make semantic relationships among the contents learned at the navigated pages . The navigation path often includes the pages belonging to different Web sites . The constructed knowledge is also composed of diverse ideas/contents since each Web site is designed by its own author . The learners can accordingly learn more widely in an individualized way [ 4 ] . In this paper , such navigation with knowledge construction is called navigational learning [ 4 ] .
On the other hand , the navigational learning is not always achieved since it is not so easy for learners . In learning Web
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . contents , learners are required not only to navigate the Web pages to construct their knowledge , but also to control the navigation and knowledge construction processes . In order for learners to succeed in learning Web contents , they need to learn how to control the navigation and knowledge construction processes , which corresponds to meta learning for learning Web contents .
In order to facilitate meta learning , we have developed tools , which scaffold controlling the navigational learning process [ 2 ] , [ 6 ] . This paper discusses key issues of designing a meta learning tool , which have been obtained from the experience of developing the tools .
2 . META LEARNING TOOLS Let us first introduce two tools , which scaffold controlling navigational learning process in hyperspace provided by Web contents . There are two ways of controlling the navigational learning process , which we have proposed [ 4 ] , as follows :
( 1 ) Navigation planning , which is to plan a navigation path to be followed for achieving a learning goal before navigating the hyperspace , and
( 2 ) Reflection , which is to reflect on the navigation and knowledge construction process carried out so far , the knowledge constructed , and the knowledge construction process after/during navigating the hyperspace . incompleteness of
In this paper , we regard learning how to learn with Web contents as learning how to plan and reflect on the navigational learning process . On the other hand , it is quite difficult for learners to plan/reflect on the navigational learning process concurrent with learning the contents of Web pages . In Web browser based learning environments , in addition , they often have difficulty in planning which navigation path should be followed from a current page the Web browser shows , although they can pay attention to understanding the contents of Web pages . It is also difficult to get information about how their knowledge has been constructed .
In order to address these problems , we have developed the tools called Navigation Planning Assistant ( PA for short ) and Interactive History ( IH for short ) , with which learners can reify the activities for navigation planning and reflection .
PA helps learners plan navigation paths to be followed before navigating hyperspace with Web browser [ 6 ] . PA consists of hyperspace map , page previewer , and path previewer . Taking an overview of the hyperspace map , the learners can preview the contents of the Web pages and navigation paths by means of the page and path previewers , which help them plan a navigation path .
IH enables learners to annotate a navigation history , which includes the Web pages sequenced in order of time they have
1084 visited , with semantic relationships between any visited pages [ 2 ] . The learners can also directly manipulate the annotated navigation history such as deleting/changing annotated semantic relationships .
IH also transforms each semantic relationship between visited pages , which is extracted from the annotated navigation history , into a visual representation . IH generates a knowledge map by combining visual representation of each semantic relationship in the annotated navigation history . It would be substantially fruitful to reflect on what they have constructed .
3 . DESIGN ISSUES Let us here discuss key issues of designing a meta learning tool , which are ( 1 ) providing learning affordance , and ( 3 ) defining criteria for assessing the meta learning tool . in consequently say detail ) . We
3.1 Learning Affordance From the results of the case study with IH , we have ascertained that the annotation operations make navigational learning more constructive and afford reflection on knowledge construction process more properly compared to using only Web browser ( See [ 3 ] that operations/manipulations within the meta learning tool should afford learners information of how to control their learning processes , and also produce their control activities with the information . Such feature of the tool is called learning affordance [ 5 ] , [ 3 ] , which is indispensable in facilitating meta learning . If learners can control their learning processes more properly with less instruction how to use the tool , the tool provides more proper learning affordance . can
Web browsers , for example , are regarded as web based learning tool for popular use . Do they provide proper learning affordance for controlling their knowledge construction processes ? The web browsers provide learners with back buttons and browsing history . Although these facilities afford the information of revisiting the Web pages that have been visited , they would not always create activities for reflecting on the knowledge construction process . The browsing history also provides no information of how they have made semantic relationships between the navigated pages , which information plays a crucial role in reflecting on knowledge construction .
We can say that the web browsers are not very suitable for reflecting on the knowledge construction process . On the other hand , IH gives learners proper learning affordance via the annotation operations .
3.2 Assessment Criteria The results of the case study with PA indicate that PA produced more efficient navigation for integrating the contents of some Web pages in a more complicated hyperspace . We can consequently say that the meta learning tool should contribute to efficient and skillful learning . This paper proposes the following two criteria for assessing the meta learning tool , which play a crucial role in designing and redesigning it . so that such learning effectiveness and efficiency can be enhanced . It should be also redesigned/refined according to the results of the evaluation whose purpose is to ascertain if the meta learning tool enhance the learning utility compared to no use of it ( using only Web browser , for example ) .
We think the effectiveness/efficiency of learning processes is the most important criterion for assessing the meta learning tool .
( 2 ) Learning Skill Meta learning also contributes to developing learning skill . Learners are expected to be able to learn more effectively and efficiently even without the tool . The use of the meta learning tool should be decreased in accordance with their experiences of using it . The tool fade out shows whether they acquire the skill of learning . We think the possibility of the tool fade out can be viewed as a criterion for assessing the meta learning tool .
4 . CONCLUSION This paper has discussed key issues of designing a meta learning tool , which are learning affordance and assessment criteria . The meta learning tool should be designed so that a proper learning affordance can be provided via the operations/manipulations . It should also designed/redesigned so that learning utility and learning skill can be enhanced .
In future , we will need to conduct a case study to ascertain the possibility of the tool fade out to assess the development of the learning skill . We would also like to integrate PA and IH to develop the meta learning tool for navigational learning of Web contents .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The work is supported in part by Grant in Aid for Scientific Research ( C)(2)(No . 15500091 ) from the Ministry of Education , Science , and Culture of Japan
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Jonassen , DH ( 2000 ) . Computers as Mindtools for Schools ,
2nd ed . , Merrill Prentice Hall .
[ 2 ] Kashihara , A . , Hasegawa , S . , & Toyoda , J . ( 2000 ) . An
Interactive History as Reflection Support in Hyperspace , Proc . of ED MEDIA2000 , 467 472 .
[ 3 ] Kashihara , A . , Sakamoto , M . , Hasegawa , S . , and Toyoda , J .
( 2001 ) . Interactive History with Learning Affordance for Knowledge Construction in Web based Learning , Proc . of ED MEDIA2001 , 885 890 .
[ 4 ] Kashihara , A . , and Hasegawa , S . ( 2003 ) . LearningBench : A
Self Directed Learning Environment on the Web , Proc . of ED MEDIA2003 , 1032 1039 .
[ 5 ] Laurillard , D . , Stratfold , M . , Luckin , R . , Plowman L . , and
Taylor , J . ( 2000 ) . Affordances for Learning in a Non Linear Narrative Medium , Journal of Interactive Media in Education , 2000(2 ) ( http://www jimeopenacuk/00/2 )
( 1 ) Learning Utility Meta learning contributes to learning more effectively and efficiently . The meta learning tool should be accordingly designed
[ 6 ] Suzuki , R . , Hasegawa , S . , Kashihara , A . , & Toyoda , J .
( 2001 ) . A Navigation Path Planning Assistant for Web based Learning , Proc . of ED MEDIA2001 , 851 1856 .
1085
