Predicting Outcomes of Web Navigation
Jacek Gwizdka
Ian Spence
Department of Psychology
University of Toronto
Toronto , Canada
+1 416 946 5813 www2005@gwizdka.com
+1 416 978 7623 spence@psychutorontoca
ABSTRACT Two exploratory studies examined the relationships among web navigation metrics , measures of lostness , and success on web navigation tasks . The web metrics were based on counts of visits to web pages , properties of the web usage graph , and similarity to an optimal path . Metrics based on similarity to an optimal path were good predictors of lostness and task success . Categories and Subject Descriptors H12 [ Models & Principles ] : User/Machine Systems — Human factors ; H54 Hypertext/Hypermedia – Navigation ; User issues . Keywords Web navigation ; Lostness ; Path similarity ; Compactness ; Stratum .
1 . INTRODUCTION Quantitative assessment of navigational behavior is fundamental to understand the phenomenon of lostness in web navigation . While anecdotes and informal observations may be suggestive , quantitative measures of user behavior will provide a better characterization of user navigation and this will , in turn , suggest better ways of designing the structure of web sites . We present two exploratory studies that examined relationships between web navigation patterns , lostness , and task success .
2 . RELATED WORK The properties of web usage graphs have been correlated with user task outcomes . McEneaney [ 3 ] demonstrated that learning task success was correlated with shallow hierarchical navigation ( high compactness ) , while task failure was related to a linear style of navigation ( high stratum ) . It is natural to enquire whether these results hold for all types of search tasks . Pitkow & Pirolli [ 7 ] used the longest repeated sequence algorithm to predict user surfing behavior and Wang & Zaïane [ 1 ] employed a sequence alignment algorithm to cluster user web navigation sessions . We used a similar algorithm to assess similarity between the user navigation path and the optimal navigation path . Otter and Johnson [ 6 ] suggested that to capture lostness in hypertext , a battery of measures was needed . Herder [ 2 ] supported this view . He found that user disorientation in hypermedia could be characterized by combining an index of revisitation behavior with median page view times . Can other measures also predict lostness and can they do so with a wide variety of search tasks ?
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) .
WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan .
ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
3 . METHODOLOGY 3.1 User Studies Participants in two studies performed question driven information finding on large Canadian government websites . Goal directed finding of information is one of the most common information seeking tasks on the Web ( accounting for 25 % [ 4] ) . Participants were asked to find a single web page containing information that was specified in each of several questions . Sample question : “ Find addresses of passport offices in Ontario ” . Participants were asked to navigate to the page in the same web browser window , without using a search engine . In the first study ( TA—Talk Aloud ) , fourteen adults ( 6 females & 8 males ) were tested separately . Each participant answered ten questions , which were the same for all participants . They were asked to talk aloud while they were navigating . There was no time limit on finding an answer to each of ten questions . All sessions were recorded using screen capture software . In the second study ( TL—Time Limit ) , forty eight adults ( 29 females & 19 males ) were tested separately . Each participant answered eight questions , which were the same for all participants . In contrast to the TA study , the time allowed for each question was the requested information was not found in that time , the participant moved on to the next question . 3.2 Measures 321 Simple navigation metrics Simple metrics , such as the number of web pages visited in a session , the number of unique web pages visited , the time spent on each web page , and the total time on each question were obtained directly from the web session logs . three minutes . If limited to
322 Properties of the user web navigation graph The nodes of the graph ( see example Figure 1 ) are the individual pages traversed . Two measures of the shape of the graph were calculated : stratum and compactness [ 1 ] . Compactness refers to the connectedness of the graph and varies between zero and one ; it is close to zero for sparsely linked graphs and close to one for highly connected graphs . Stratum measures how close the navigation path is to a linear ordering . Like compactness , stratum varies between zero and one . A stratum close to zero indicates a less linear navigation path ; a stratum close to one indicates a more nearly linear navigation path . 323 Similarity to the optimal path We defined the optimal path as the shortest path to the page containing the desired information . We assumed that such a path existed for each question and that the path was unique . Two
892 similarity measures ( LCSMax , LCSlenMax ) were calculated based on a procedure by Needleman and Wunsch [ 5 ] , which uses a global sequence alignment algorithm with a non zero gap cost and an arbitrary distance function . LCSMax is a normalized similarity score between the user path and the optimal path . LCSlenMax is the ratio of the length of the longest common subsequence ( in the user and optimal paths ) to the user path length . 3.3 Navigation Task Outcomes Task success was defined as finding a page with the information specified in the question . In the TA study , task success was evaluated subjectively by each participant and verified by the experimenter after the session . In the TL study , task success was inferred if the task was completed within the time limit . In both cases , task success was assigned a binary value ( true or false ) . Lostness was operationalized as the participant ’s feeling of disorientation on the web navigation task . This could be assessed in the TA study only , where participants were asked to talk aloud during the sessions which were screen cam recorded . A trained rater watched the audio video record and assessed the apparent lostness of the participant on a 4 point scale .
Lostness = 1.3
Lostness = 2.8
Figure 1 . Different shapes of web navigation graphs on the same task
4 . RESULTS Using linear regression , LCSlenMax and total time were found to the best predictors of subjective lostness , accounting for over 90 % of the total variance in the fitted regression model . Using logistic regression in both studies , LCSMax was found to be the best predictor of task success . This confirmed our a priori intuitions : the higher the similarity to the optimal path , the better the chances for success on an information finding task . In the TL study , significant models were fit for five of the eight questions . Three models confirmed LCSMax as the best predictor of task success . Compactness or stratum were the best predictors of task success in the other two other models . Lower values of compactness ( sparsely linked web usage graphs corresponding to fewer returns to previously visited pages ) and higher values of stratum ( more linear user navigation path ) were related to task success . Although LCSMax was , in general , the best single predictor of task success , linearity of the search path proved to be a better predictor on some questions .
5 . DISCUSSION Similarity to the optimal path is a good predictor of both lostness and task success , for the navigational tasks that we employed . Tasks other than goal directed search may yield different results . Depending on the task , the notion of an optimal path might not make sense , or an optimal path might not exist , and therefore similarity metrics would be ill defined . Success may depend on the user finding one of a set of “ good ” paths and such situations may be better characterized by considering the “ shape ” ( eg , compactness and stratum ) of the exploration path . Higher values of stratum ( typically along with lower values of compactness ) tend to be associated with a higher probability of task success . This finding is opposite to McEneaney [ 3 ] . However , there is no necessary contradiction ; McEneaney used a different navigational task ( learning using a hypertext handbook ) which likely requires a rather different navigation strategy . The viability of a search strategy is probably contingent on the information seeking task .
6 . CONCLUSIONS & FUTURE WORK Appropriate metrics can provide useful characterizations of user web navigation behavior and can diagnose a variety of problems ( such as getting lost , and not finding the desired information ) . The ability to predict task outcomes with precision would be extremely useful in practice . More needs to be done to define and to select the best metrics . Effective diagnostics could be of great assistance in building adaptive web solutions . We plan to investigate metrics for a wider variety of information seeking tasks , for example , on tasks such as broad browsing . We plan to determine which factors induce deviation from the optimal path , by examination of the local website structure at points in the search path where users frequently become lost .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Botafogo , RA , Rivlin , E . , & Shneiderman , B . , Structural Analysis of Hypertexts : Identifying Hierarchies and Useful Metrics . ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 1992 . 10(2 ) : 142 180 .
[ 2 ] Herder , E . , & Van Dijk , B . Site Structure and User Navigation :
Models , Measures and Methods . In Adaptable and Adaptive Hypermedia Systems , SY Chen and GD Magoulas ( eds ) , Idea Group Publishing , 19 34 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] McEneaney , JE Graphic and numerical methods to assess navigation in hypertext . In Intl . Journal of Human Computer Studies , 55 , pages 761 786 , 2001 .
[ 4 ] Morrison , JB , Pirolli , P . , and Card , S . K . , A taxonomic analysis of what world wide web activities significantly impact people's decisions and actions , In the Proceedings of CHI’2001 . Extended abstracts . 163 – 164 . 2001 .
[ 5 ] Needleman SB , Wunsch CD A general method applicable to the search for similarities in the amino acid sequences of two proteins . J . Mol . Biol . 48:443 453 , 1970 .
[ 6 ] Otter , M . and Johnson , H . Lost in hyperspace : metrics and mental models . Interacting with Computers , 13(1 ) , 1 40 , 2000 . [ 7 ] Pitkow , J . E . , Pirolli , P . Mining longest repeated subsequences to predict World Wide Web surfing . Second USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems . 1999 . [ 8 ] Wang , W . and Zaïane , O . R . Clustering Web Sessions by
Sequence Alignment . 394 398 . 2002 . Proceedings of DEXA Workshops 2002 .
893
