A Semantic Link Based Infrastructure for Web Service
Discovery in P2P Networks
Jie Liu1 , 2 and Hai Zhuge1
China Knowledge Grid Research Group , Institute of Computing Technology ,
Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing , 100080 , China1 Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences2
( lj@kgictaccn , zhuge@ictaccn )
ABSTRACT An important issue arising from P2P applications is how to accurately and efficiently retrieve the required Web services from large scale repositories . This paper resolves this issue by organizing services in the overlay combining the Semantic Service Link Network and the Chord P2P network . A service request will first be routed in the Chord according to the given service operation names and keywords . Then , the same request will be routed in the Semantic Link Network according to the service link type and semantic matching . Compared with previous P2P service discovery approaches , the proposed approach has two advantages : ( 1 ) produce more accurate and meaning results when searching for particular services in a P2P network ; and ( 2 ) enable users and peers to discover services in a more flexible way . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – retrieval models , search process , selection process .
General Terms : Algorithms , Management , Design Keywords : Peer to Peer , Semantic Link , Web Service 1 . INTRODUCTION An important issue arising in P2P applications is how to accurately and efficiently discover the required services in P2P networks . Based on our previous work on multi valued service specialization [ 5 ] , this paper proposes a semantic link based service discovery approach by incorporating the Chord overlay . 2 . GENERAL ARCHITECTURE When a peer Pi joins a P2P network , it will publish its services in two ways : ( 1 ) associate each Operation Name and Keyword of Service ( Pi ) with a key using SHA 1 hashing functions and store index of Service ( Pi ) at the peer corresponding to that key on Chord ; ( 2 ) establish semantic service links between itself and its neighbors . As depicted in Figure 1 , users can query services using GUI ( Graphical User Interface ) or SSQL ( Semantic Service Query Language ) — an SQL like language for service discovery . Peers can communicate with their neighbors using SOAP messages .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Upon receiving a service request , Pi will first hash the given operation names or keywords using SHA 1 functions and search on the Chord overlay . In addition to the exact keyword based lookup protocol , our approach supports two types of complex queries , ie , Wildcards Matching and Combinational Query . The keyword based Chord lookup has no semantics [ 4 ] . Similar services that have slightly differences in operation names or keywords descriptions may be hashed to different peers on Chord . To support semantic based service discovery and get more accurate results , after routing in Chord , the same request will be forwarded to neighbors of Pi according to the service link types and the similarity degree between them .
Figure 1 . General architecture of the proposed approach . in Figure 1 , the semantic link based service
As depicted discovery approach consists of the following steps : ( 1 ) Query Parsing — To parse and extract the keyword input description , parameters , and the required output of particular services . the required operation names , the
( 2 ) Query Optimization — To optimize the service requirement using query optimization techniques .
( 3 ) Searching in Local Repository — To search the required services in its local repository first .
940 ( 4 ) Routing in Chord Overlay— To lookup the required services in Chord by hashing the operation names and keywords .
( 5 ) Routing in Service Link Network Overlay — To forward the service requirement to its neighbors according to the semantic service link types and similarity between them .
( 6 ) Result Processing — To analyze the service indices returned by peers in Chord or the service link network , and invoke the corresponding services .
3 . SEMANTIC SERVICE LINK NETWORK 3.1 Semantic Service Link Model As defined in [ 5 ] , a Web service can be abstracted as WS(OpSet={op1 : σ1→τ1 , op2 : σ2→τ2 , … , opn : σn→τn} , CATEGORY , KEYWORD ) , where OpSet is the operation set , ie , the functionalities that a service can provide , σ is the input , τ is the output , CATEGORY is the classification type , and KEYWORD is the keyword set . Input , output , category and keywords can be used to identify the semantic relationships between two web services . Six types of Semantic Service Links are defined as follows : ( 1 ) Equal to Service Link . If Service ( Pi ) and Service ( Pj ) has the the same same OpSet , KEYWORD , then Pi⎯s equ→Pj and Pj⎯s equ→Pi . the same CATEGORY , and
( 2 ) Partial Specialization Service Link . If OpSet ( Pj ) ⊆ OpSet ( Pi ) , CATEGORY ( Pj ) ⊆ CATEGORY ( Pi ) , and KEYWORD ( Pj ) ⊆ KEYWORD ( Pi ) , then Pi⎯s partial→Pj .
( 3 ) Extension Specialization Service Link . If OpSet ( Pj ) ⊇ OpSet ( Pi ) , CATEGORY ( Pj ) ⊇ CATEGORY ( Pi ) , and KEYWORD ( Pj ) ⊇ KEYWORD ( Pi ) , then Pi⎯s extension→Pj .
( 4 ) Revision Specialization Service Link . If OpSet ( Pj ) ∩ OpSet ( Pi)≠NULL , CATEGORY ( Pj ) ∩ CATEGORY ( Pi ) ≠NULL , or KEYWORD ( Pj ) ∩ KEYWORD ( Pi ) ≠NULL , then Pi⎯srevision→Pj .
( 5 ) Non Specialization Service Link . If there is no semantic relationship between Service ( Pi ) and Service ( Pj ) , then Pi⎯s ∅→Pj and Pj⎯s ∅→Pi .
( 6 ) Unknown Service Link . If the semantic relationship between Service ( Pi ) and Service ( Pj ) is unknown , then Pi⎯s N→Pj and Pj⎯s N→Pi .
When a peer Pi joins a P2P network , it will randomly take a peer Pj as its neighbor . Then Pi will send SOAP messages to get the services provided by Pj and establish the service link between Pi and Pj . 3.2 Similarity between Services Let s1 , s2 , s3 be the operation similarity , category similarity , and keyword similarity of Service ( Pi ) and Service ( Pj ) , which could be calculated using approaches in [ 5 ] . Let w1 , w2 , w3∈ [ 0 , 1 ] be the weights of s1 , s2 , s3 , which satisfy w1+w2+w3=1 . The progressive weight distribution function is 0 fuzzy metric . By using fuzzy integral approach , the similarity between Service ( Pi ) and Service ( Pj ) can be calculated by sHW (
∑ = w
= i k
) i
1 k
3 [ ∨ i 1 =
Similarity= s ∧ i sHW (
) ] i
, where “ ∧ ” means by the minimum operation , and “ ∨ ” means by the maximum operation .
3.3 Reasoning Rules for Semantic Service Links The heuristic the semantic relationships between Pi and other peers in P2P networks are listed in Table 1 , where α {∈ s equ , s partial , s extension , srevision , s ∅ , s N} . for deriving reasoning rules
Table 1．Reasoning Rules for Semantic Service Links
No . Rule 1 Rule 2 Rule 3
Rule 4
Rule 5 Rule 6
Rules Pi⎯ s equ →Pj , Pj⎯ s equ →Pk ⇒ Pi⎯ s equ →Pk Pi⎯ s equ →Pj , Pj⎯α→Pk ⇒ Pi⎯α→Pk Pi⎯ s partial →Pj , Pj⎯ s partial →Pk ⇒ Pi⎯ s partial →Pk Pi⎯ s extension →Pj , Pj⎯ s extension →Pk ⇒ Pi⎯ s extension →Pk Pi⎯N→Pj , Pj⎯α→Pk ⇒ Pi⎯N→Pk Pi⎯∅→Pj , Pj⎯α→Pk ⇒ Pi⎯N→Pk
4 . COMPARISON Current P2P Web service discovery methods are either on unstructured P2P systems or on structured P2P systems . In [ 2 ] , a service discovery approach based on Gnutella P2P protocol was proposed . However , this flooding based approach suffers from problems such as traffic and load balancing . Structured P2P service discovery approaches were proposed in [ 1 ] and [ 3 ] . Compared with approaches in [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] , our approach uses semantic service links to represent semantic relationships between services , and provides a more efficient and flexible way for service discovery in P2P networks . 5 . CONCLUSION This paper proposes a semantic link based service discovery approach on top of Chord overlay . Our contribution concentrates on a semantic based infrastructure for flexible service lookup in P2P networks . Simulation the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approach . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research work is supported by the National Basic Research 973 Program the National Science Foundation of China ( No.60273020 and No70271007 ) We thank all the team members of China Knowledge Grid Research Group ( http://kgictaccn , http : //wwwknowledgegrid net ) . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Emekci , F . et al . A peer to peer framework for Web service discovery with ranking . In Proceedings of ICWS’04 , California , USA , July , 2004 . results have demonstrated
( 2003CB317001 ) and
[ 2 ] Paolucci , M . et al . Using daml s for p2p discovery . In Proceedings of ICWS'03 , Erfurt , Germany , September , 2003 . [ 3 ] Schmidt , C . and Parashar , M . A peer to peer approach to Web service discovery , World Wide Web , 7 ( 2 ) ( 2004 ) 211229 .
[ 4 ] Stoica , H . et al . Chord : a scalable peer to peer lookup In Proceedings of service SIGCOMM’01 , San Diego , CA , USA , August , 2001 .
Internet applications .
[ 5 ] Zhuge , H . and Liu , J . Flexible retrieval of Web services . for
Journal of Systems and Software , 70 ( 1 2 ) ( 2004 ) 107 116 .
941
