The Anatomy of a News Search Engine
Dipartimento di Informatica , University of Pisa
A . Gulli gulli@diunipiit
ABSTRACT Today , news browsing and searching is one of the most important Internet activity . This paper introduces a general framework to build a News search engine by describing Velthune , an academic News search engine available on line . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage And Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experiments Keywords News Search Engines , Information Extraction , Syndication 1 .
INTRODUCTION
According to a recent survey [ 1 ] made by Nielsen/ NetRatings , news browsing and searching is one of the most important internet activity . In October 2004 , there were more than 28 millions of active news users in US For instance , Yahoo! News had an audience which is roughly the half of Yahoo! Web Search , a third of Google Web Search and a bit more than AOL Web Search . The huge amount of news available on line reflects the users’ need for a plurality of information and opinions . News Search engines are then a direct link to fresh and unfiltered stream of information . There are many commercial News search engines . Google News retrieves news information by more than 4,000 sources , organizes it in categories and automatically builds a Web page with the most important news for each category . Yahoo news runs an analogous service on more than 5,000 sources . Microsoft recently announced its NewsBot , a news engine that provides personalized news according to different profiles built for each users . Findory proposes a similar personalized service , which relies on patent pending algorithms . A list of commercial news engine is given in [ 2 ] . Despite this great variety of commercial solutions , we found just few academic papers on this subject . NewsInEssence [ 7 ] is a system for finding and summarizing clusters of related news articles . QCS [ 8 ] is a software tool for streamlined IR [ 5 ] proposes a topic mining from generic document sets . framework for news data stream . [ 11 ] finds news articles on the web that are relevant to TV news currently being broadcast . [ 12 ] proposes a tool to automatically extracting
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . news from Web sites . NewsJunkie [ 10 ] is a system that personalizes news for users by identifying the novelty of stories in the context of stories users have already reviewed . We think that the few scientific publications cause the News search engine technology to remain largely a black art .
2 . A NEWS SEARCH ENGINE : VELTHUNE In this short paper , we introduce a more general framework to build a News search engine . Our system , Velthune , is a complete News search engine for retrieving , ranking , indexing , classifying , clustering and delivering personalized news information extracted both form the Web and from news feeds . The system is made by the modules depicted in Figure 2 . It has a Web interface at http://newsenginediunipiit/ In the following , we describe them .
Figure 1 : Velthune Web interface .
The retrievers : This module gathers news from a set of selected remote news sources . It supports different syndication formats , such as Atom [ 3 ] and RSS [ 4 ] . Besides , it is possible to feed the system with selected information extracted from remote Web pages . Currently , we selected a list of news sources consisting of about 2000 different Web journals . For efficiency reason , the space of news sources is partitioned and this module is composed by several processes which run in parallel . The data is collected 24h per day , and the stream of information is stored into a local database Ndb . The images processor : The image processor module analyzes information stored in the Ndb . It tries to enrich any news with an associated image . In the easy case ( eg Toons category ) , the news source has already associated an image to a given news in the RSS/Atom feed . This association is expressed as an HTML fragment , so we can easily download
880 the image locally and create a suitable thumbnail of it . In other situations , we have a news n , extracted by a Web page p or by a RSS/Atom feed,with no associated image which refers to a Web page p . We download locally any image contained in p and use many heuristics to identify the most suitable image to be associated to n . We take in account contextual information ( eg where the image is placed in the HTML source ) as well as content information ( eg image ’s size , colors and other features ) . The feature selection index : We use a the feature selection index Fdb to design an efficient method for extracting meaningful terms from the news . As suggested in [ 9 ] , we index the whole DMOZ and implement a TFxIDF measure that is DMOZ category centered . Fdb is built at preprocessing time and then used for selecting and ranking on the fly key features used for News classification and clustering .
Figure 2 : Architecture of the News Engine .
The classifier engine : All the news in Ndb needs to be classified . The categories defined in the system are given in figure 3 . We use a naive bayesan classifier . Note that a ( relatively large ) part of the RSS/Atom feed are already manually classified from the originating news source . As a consequence , the key idea for classifying is to use the classifier in a mixed mode : as soon as an already classified news by a news source is seen , the classifier is switched in training mode ; the remaining unclassified news are categorized with the classifier in categorizing mode .
Category # News Category Business Europe Italia Sci/Tech US Sports
57079 29256 Health 13098 Music Feeds 40368 13368 Top News 62672 World
Entertainment
Software & Dev .
# News 71865 20025 1112 2739 88189 80323
Figure 3 : News collected over three months .
The clustering engine : We adopt a variant k means algorithm with distance threshold for creating a flat clustering structure , where the number of clusters is not known a priori . This is much useful for discovering similar news or news mirrored by many sources .
The ranker engine : Ranking news is a task rather different than Web page ranking . From one side , we can expect a less amount of spam since the news come from controlled sources . From other hand , when a news is posted it is a fresh kind of information . Therefore , there is almost no hyperlink pointing to it . In a companion paper [ 6 ] , we describe a News ranking algorithm which ranks both news and sources , and takes in account many different factors such as : ( 1 ) news freshness ( 2 ) news clustering aggregation ( 3 ) importance of the source posting the news . Our running prototype have used a ranking algorithms based on ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) for months . Currently , we are integrating other criteria suggested in [ 6 ] .
The indexer : Classified and Clustered news coming from Ndb are indexed by this module , which produces an inverted list index . For each news we store the source , the url , the title , the associated category , the description , a rank value , and the publication date .
Query and Browsing interface : The index is accessed by the search and browsing interface . A typical user can access the news by category , search within any category and search all the indexed news . All the results are available with a public Web interface . Besides , we provide an RSS search mode . Using this feature , a user can submit a list of keywords and she receives a permanent XML feed with the most updated news about that topic . In this way , Velthune acts as a public aggregator for news feeds .
Personalized alerting agent : We integrated a mail alerting system , which produces a personalized daily summary of the news chosen by users . In fact , each user can login into the system and record a private set of queries . As soon as a fresh and related news appears into the system , it is aggregated into a mail sent daily to the user . Information about users is stored in a local database Udb .
Personal history tracker : This module allows a transparent tracking of the the news selected by the users through different browsing or searching sessions . Currently , we use this feature for alleviating users from the need to bookmark interesting news . Data are stored in Udb and are kept private . Therefore , they are accessible preserving the users’ privacy . In this case , the system does not request an explicit login , but works using a cookie mechanism . We also plan to use this kind of data in an anonymized form , for providing personalized search results .
Helper modules : Velthune provides other services available trough the Web interface . They are : ( i ) “ Top Ten ” , the most accesses news for each category ; ( ii ) “ Top News Sources ” , the most active news sources for each category ; ( iii ) “ Latest News ” , the list of most frequent named entities dynamically extracted at query time from each category .
3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] http://wwwnielsen netratingscom/ [ 2 ] http://searchenginewatchcom/ [ 3 ] http://wwwatomenabledorg/ [ 4 ] http://blogslawharvardedu/tech/rss [ 5 ] S . Chung and D . McLeod . Dynamic topic mining from news stream data . In ODBASE , 2003 .
[ 6 ] GM Del Corso , A . Gulli , and F . Romani . Ranking a stream of news . In www14 , 2005 .
[ 7 ] S . Blair Goldensohn D . R . Radev , Z . Zhang , and R . S .
Raghavan . Newsinessence : A system for domain independent , real time news clustering and multi document summarization . In HLTC , 2001 .
[ 8 ] D . M . Dunlavy , J . P . Conroy , and D . P . O’Leary . Qcs : A tool for querying , clustering , summarizing documents . In HLT , 2003 .
[ 9 ] P . Ferragina and A . Gulli . A personalized search engine based on web snippet hierarchical clustering . In www14 , 2005 .
[ 10 ] E . Gabrilovich , S . Dumais , and E . Horvitz . Newsjunkie :
Providing personalized newsfeeds via analysis of information novelty . In www13 , 2004 .
[ 11 ] M . Henzinger , B . Chang , B . Milch , and S . Brin . Query free news search . In www12 , 2003 .
[ 12 ] D . Reis , P . Golgher , A . Silva , and A . Laender . Automatic web news extraction using tree edit distance . In www13 , 2004 .
881
