$ 0RGHOLQJ $SSURDFK WR
)HGHUDWHG ,GHQWLW\ DQG $FFHVV 0DQDJHPHQW
0DUWLQ *DHGNH
8QLYHUVLW\ RI .DUOVUXKH
( QJHVVHUVWU
RKDQQHV 0HLQHFNH 8QLYHUVLW\ RI .DUOVUXKH
( QJHVVHUVWU
0DUWLQ 1XVVEDXPHU 8QLYHUVLW\ RI .DUOVUXKH
( QJHVVHUVWU
.DUOVUXKH *HUPDQ\
.DUOVUXKH *HUPDQ\
.DUOVUXKH *HUPDQ\
+49 ( 721 ) 608 8076
JDHGNH#WP XND GH
PHLQHFNH#WP XND GH
QXVVEDXPHU#WP XND GH faced with new requirements
ABSTRACT As the Web is increasingly used as a platform for heterogeneous applications , we are to authentication , authorization and identity management . Modern architectures have to control access not only to single , isolated systems , but federations of applications and services . This task is complicated by the diversity of today ’s specifications concerning eg privacy , system integrity and distribution in the web . As an approach to such problems , in this paper , we introduce a solution catalogue of reusable building blocks for Identity and Access Management ( IAM ) . The concepts of these blocks have been realized in a configurable system that supports IAM solutions for Web based applications . to whole business spanning
Categories and Subject Descriptors D213 [ Software Engineering ] : Reusable Software – Reuse models ; K65 [ Management of computing and information systems ] : Security and Protection – Authentication
General Terms Management , Design , Security
Keywords Security , Identity and Access Management , Federation , Reuse
1 . INTRODUCTION The task of constructing Web based applications and systems is scientifically founded on the discipline Web Engineering . Among the many aspects to be considered is the control of accesses to the system as well as the related management of identities . Today we are faced with a large number of heterogeneous , partly Web based business applications from different companies . Many products implement their own access control mechanisms , leading to the challenge of managing a company ’s overall security policy and raising unnecessary costs . Even more difficulties have to be overcome when applications under the control of different organizations are involved . These problems have been recognized [ 2 ] and resulted the construction of systems that are interoperable in terms of security . The principal idea behind such solutions is to make use of Web service technology to separate authentication and authorization mechanisms from the applications themselves . In this context , the Security Assertion Markup Language ( SAML ) has been specified by OASIS as an XML based notation for exchanging security
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . in standardization efforts aimed at relevant information . Moreover , the Liberty Alliance project is concerned with standardized mechanisms for discovering and offering identity related services and applications . Furthermore , WS Federation defines access profiles that describe , how and in which order the messages necessary for a federated authorization process are exchanged between the involved browsers , clients and servers . Because of the high number of different aspects to be concerned , like security technologies , cryptographic algorithms , and communication protocols , solutions based on those standards entail a high degree of complexity , demanding for abstraction . In this paper , we therefore introduce a catalogue of reusable building blocks based on a simple , extendable model . The building blocks provide solutions to common problems using concepts from security and federation specifications . They have also laid the foundation for a configurable system ( idFS ) , which supports the establishment of a uniform Web access control infrastructure .
2 . FIM – FEDERATED IDENTITY MODEL In order to provide notations for modeling the IAM infrastructure on an abstract level , we developed the Federated Identity Model ( FIM ) . As an extendable modeling framework based on UML class diagrams , it abstracts from actual technologies in favor of a view that is centered on potential system configurations . The main modeling elements include the resources to be protected ( ie Web applications and services ) and the security token services ( STS ) , which act as separate services for issuing security relevant statements ( so called security tokens ) . These statements relate either to authenticated identities of requesting clients ( in the case of identity providers ) or to access privileges on the resources ( in the case of resource STS ) . Between the system elements , trust relationships can be defined to model that one element relies on the digitally signed statements of another element . In particular , this relationship can also span multiple organizations to realize federations of trust . In such scenarios , all services and applications under the control of one federation partner are grouped into a security realm . Additional modeling classes represent abstract modules and user interfaces that can be seen as separate system parts , with the configuration specifying the concrete algorithms and mechanisms to be used ( like eg rolebased authorization ) .
3 . BUILDING BLOCK CATALOGUE The outlined modeling framework potentially allows for the description of a wide range of scenarios . In the context of the mentioned identity management problems however , guidelines are required for building solutions in a high quality and cost effective way . Therefore , we present a catalogue of building blocks based on FIM . Similar to design patterns in Software Engineering [ 1 ] , it
1156 contains a statement of a certain problem together with a description of how to solve this problem as well as a discussion of the solution . In the following , we describe a selection of three building blocks out of our catalogue . Single Sign On ( SSO ) : An organization runs several Web IAM applications components in high management costs and inconveniences for the users who would have to remember all their credentials . require access control . the applications would
Integrating result that into
Figure 2 : Identity Federation of Enterprises
As a solution , the security infrastructures of the partners are linked up by connecting their security realms , for example as depicted in Figure 2 . Trust relationships are established between the STS of the realm where resources need to be accessed and the identity providers of the realms where the accessing users have their accounts . When a user accesses a resource , the responsible STS dynamically allocates the proper identity provider based on the rules of a delegation mechanisms . When the security token returns back from the IP to the STS , it is quite possible that the stated foreign identity is unknown in this realm . Therefore , an authorization mechanism issues permissions depending on rules . Although the identification process is delegated to an external system , the partners are still in full control of their access policies . External users do not receive permissions unless this has been explicitly stated at the STS . Users of a federation partner do not need an extra account for the external sites and only sign in once at their enterprise . The full potential of this solution relies on the fact that the work of the users transcends organizational borders , as business processes demand . should be applied that
4 . SYSTEM SUPPORT BY idFS In order to support distributed arrangements of Web applications and systems in correspondence with the proposed FIM , we implemented the Identity Federation System ( idFS ) as the necessary technological infrastructure . Along with security token services and identity providers , idFS also provides binding modules for a seamless integration of arbitrary Web applications and services as well as a Web interface for managing accounts from different sources ( eg databases or directory services ) . The building block solutions are put into practice simply by configuring idFS components . An installable version can be downloaded at http://mwrgtmuni karlsruhede/downloadcenter/
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Gamma , E . , et al . , Design patterns : elements of reusable object oriented software . Addison Wesley professional computing series . 1995 , Reading . : Addison Wesley . xv , 395 . [ 2 ] Witty , RJ and Wagner , R . , The Growing Need for Identity and Access Management , Gartner Article Top View AV 214512 . 2003 : Stamford , CT .
Figure 1 : Single Sign On
As depicted in Figure 1 , an IP and an STS is set up . The Web applications are all configured to send users requesting protected resources to the STS by performing an HTTP redirect . The STS redirects the user again , now to its configured IP that displays a sign in form . In case valid credentials have been supplied , a security token is generated and passed on to the STS . The STS determines the permissions for the identity stated in the incoming token , generates a new token and redirects to the original application . When the user accesses one of the other federationenabled applications within the same session , the IP will not have to show the sign in form again , as it has already authenticated the user and the issued token is still available as session data . The separation of the authentication and authorization processes from the applications allows for reusing accounts and access policies . Any redundancy of identity information is avoided , which lowers the cost of management . A central STS enables the organization to define a uniform role system for all connected applications . Once the infrastructure exists , new applications can easily be integrated by just configuring them for the use of the STS . Self Service Identity Management : The operation of large , Webbased systems with many different users causes high administration costs . A vast amount of effort is spent on identityrelated tasks like creating user accounts for new employees or resetting passwords . To reduce management expenses , the tasks related to accounts and access policies are delegated to the users themselves as far as possible . Both IP and STS are equipped with management interfaces that are used by the account holders in a self service manner . For the IP , this means , enabling users to make changes to their own accounts , like resetting passwords and changing contact details . Even the creation of accounts can occur without any dedicated staff involved , eg with online registration forms for anonymous users . In case of the STS , a self service authorization mechanism can allow account holders to enter activation codes in order to put themselves in certain roles and , in a way , authorize themselves as foreseen by the business process . An obvious restriction to the self service concept concerns the security aspect . Anonymously created accounts or role administration by users may not be suitable in high security zones , but in other areas , close to 100 % self operating solutions can be achieved . Identity Federation of Enterprises : Separate enterprises want to cooperate by the interconnecting of users , applications and systems . This the arrangements of transcendental access to distributed processing and data sharing . includes problems for
1157
