4 2 : . 8 , 0 47/ 479
7 #,208 # $,7 : ,
, 44 3 .
789 ;0
$:33 ; , 0(cid:30 )
78,7 : , , 44 .42
ABSTRACT How much is a keyword worth ? At the crux of every search is a query that is composed of search keywords . Sponsors bid for placement on such keywords using a variety of factors , the key being the relative demand for the keyword , and its ability to drive customers to their site . In this paper , we explore the notion of “ worth of a keyword ” . We determine the keyword ’s worth by tying it to the end criteria that needs to be maximized . As an illustrative example , keyword searches that drive e commerce transactions are modeled and methods for estimating the Return On Investment/value of a keyword from the association data is discussed .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage & Retrieval ] : Informational Search and Retrieval – information filtering , retrieval models .
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Economics , Experimentation .
Keywords Search keyword valuation , optimization , ROI , e commerce , sponsored listing , sponsored keyword recommendation .
1 . INTRODUCTION Keywords play an important role in indexing the Web . They are the basis for queries to search , and trigger sponsored listings and advertisements on a number of pages , drawing away eye balls to many different sites . Generally keywords are ranked based on metrics such as frequency of usage , or relevance to a particular site . Such approaches are useful , but do not necessarily capture the net effect of the keywords . They often dilute the effect of individual keywords valuable for specific goals , due to the mass volume/frequency effects . It is clear that keywords influence search engines that rank sites , which in turn determines the popularity of the site itself [ 1 ] , and frequency of access can be a negative attribute to determine page popularity/relevance . Keyword analysis and rating methods are generally limited within the context of search . For instance , [ 2]discusses methods of effectively caching search results . In this paper , we discuss the notion of the “ worth ” of a keyword . In particular , we can quantify the worth of a keyword based on any end to end networking effects . An example of an end to end effect is the action of visiting a particular side and performing a specific action such as a purchase .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
2 . Case Study : From Search to Transactions In order to study this idea of “ value ” of a search keyword , we took the case where search acts as a funnel to e commerce sites . By worth of a keyword , we are referring to the worth of a keyword when a user searches using the keyword . Traditional approaches to sponsored listings bid on the worth of the keyword with respect to the marketplace ( supply/demand ) , and not the value of the keyword to a merchant or a site owner . In particular , users’ search the Web using hundreds of millions of keywords , that link them to a variety of sites . How does a site that wants to sponsor keywords know what keywords are most worthy for that site ? How does that merchant quantify the worth/value of a keyword ? Furthermore , how can a merchant leverage both the frequency effect of the keyword in search with the value driven by a user clicking on a link to their site generated by that keyword . The approach we took for this exercise is shown below :
It is also important to note that what is illustrated is the closing of the connection between the incoming search funnel and the end of the network : keywords get potential customers into the network ; Potential customers are exposed to e commerce sites ; Customers make purchases ( end objective ) which translates to revenue for merchant ; This data can be processed through the analysis engine that estimates what the worth of each keyword is . Finally , a recommendation tool allows the merchant to select for the best keywords for a given budget . By analysis and quantification the keyword worth in such a end to end manner , we are enabling the merchant to leverage the networking effect ( ie the effect of being tied to the entry funnel of the network : in this case search ) . The approach is general enough to determine the worth of a keyword with respect to any end objective .
Purchase
Analysis
Search
Site
3 . The Model 3.1 Overview How do we go about determining the worth of a keyword ? The approach we are taking in this work is to first co relate keywords used in searches to end target events . For instance , target events could be e commerce transactions with details of the order such as what site the order was completed on , what was the total value of the order , and so on . This is collated , and information
890 probabilistic models used to determine the value of a keyword for a specific site and event . For instance , the probability of a transaction occurring at a particular site initiated with a specific search keyword can be computed using this data . Next , applying Bayes rule , the conditional probability of a keyword search resulting in a transaction at a particular site can be estimated . Since each transaction has a dollar value associated with it , it is also possible to compute the expected value of each keyword search that results in transaction completions . 3.2 Definitions Let us define the T to be the set of transactions generated on a site S using search keyword K . The key metric of interest is P(T | K , S ) . This dictates how effective a keyword is in driving users’ towards completion of events/transaction . Using Bayes Rule , the following equation can be used to estimate this probability :
TP )(* )
SkTP ( ,
|
=
)
TSkP ,( | SkP ,(
)
3.3 Search Keyword Rating ( SKR Metric ) The next metric of interest is how much is the keyword actually worth ? Associating a monetary value to a keyword will enable the appropriate computation and translation of the investment ( in say sponsored search ) into profits ( ie determine Return On Investments/ROI ) . In order to compute an estimated dollar worth of a keyword , the average dollar value of the keyword is determined using the collection of transactions associated with that keyword and the expected worth of the keyword determined as follows :
P
Norm .
ROI
|S(k ,
T )
=
∑ ∑∑
∀ t
∀ k
∀ t tSkR )| ,( tSkR )| ,( where R(K , S | T ) is the actual dollar value on the transaction occurring with keyword K on site S . This refers to the actual dollar value of a transaction “ t ” that was driven by a search using keyword K on site S . 3.4 Results In this section , the results from one particular site are presented . Brand names are replaced wherever applicable , so as to retain privacy of the data . This site sells items related to health , and medical items . In order to evaluate this approach , we decided to use e commerce data generated via sample e commerce sites . The system captures search keywords from the search engine to the destination site up to the point of transaction completion . The data set consisted of 9001 transactions collected from a sample store . Since a search query can consist of multiple keywords , the total number of keyword , transaction combination set was 20111 ( 14,000 train and 6,111 test samples ) . The total number of unique keywords present in this dataset was 4700 . The keyword list was filtered to remove stoplists with words such as “ html ” , “ http ” , “ for ” and so on . The transaction probability was defined to be a uniform distribution . Since the primary objective in this study is to evaluate the relative importance of keywords driven by search to a site , the results focus on the probabilities P Norm . ROI(k,s|T ) . Log(P Norm . ROI(k,s|T ) )
Log(P Norm . ROI(k,s|T ) )
TRAIN
Keyword ( $/order )
TEST
BrandName1($71.86 ) BrandName2($63.77 )
Vitamins($51.87 ) Leptoprin($108.174 ) Biofreeze($30.98 ) Anorex($112.103 )
3.43 4.66 4.89 4.97 5.12 5.31
4.21 5.36 5.69 5.92 6.04 6.41*
The top revenue normalized probabilistic keywords are listed in the table above ( in negative log probabilities ) . This list provides insight into what are the top keywords that drive transactions to this site . An important observation is that even though the keyword worth is higher for terms such as “ biofreeze ” than “ vitamins ” , the average value per order is higher for “ vitamins ” . The reason for this is because the value of the order is not taken into consideration when ranking the terms . By leveraging the ROI based keyword rating , the top list of keywords that maximizes P Norm . ROI(k,s|T ) can be used as a starting point to iterate over the subsets of keywords that can have a maximum impact for the given budget , and hence recommended to merchants . Results on the test and training data rank the same keywords in the ( sorted ) top twenty list as indicated in table above . Keywords marked with * are lower in the ranking on the test data , but appear in the top twenty keyword list . This shows that the ranking is effective in picking keywords with highest returns .
4 . Conclusions In this paper , we discuss the notion of “ keyword value ” . At the root of every search and sponsored listing are keywords . Today , keywords are seldom chosen based on the end network result of listing the keyword . We presented the notion of keyword “ value ” in the context of keyword searches resulting in e commerce transactions . The overall approach of determining and factoring end to end effects in determining value of attributes of the Web , and leveraging that to feed back into the same system is a powerful concept . This is analogous to a positive feedback system , and can have powerful benefits if modeled correctly and exploited to leverage the complex “ networking effects ” [ 4 ] .
5 . Acknowledgements I would like to thank Dr . Qi Lu ( VP Search & Marketplace , Yahoo ) who has been very instrumental in conception of this idea .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Junghoo Cho , and Sourashis Roy , “ Impact of Search Engines on Page Popularity ” , in Proceedings of the World Wide Web Conference , WWW2004 , New York .
[ 2 ] Rony Lempel , and Shlomo Moran , “ Predictive caching and prefetching of query results in search engines ” , in proceedings of the World Wide Web Conference , WWW2003 , Budapest .
[ 3 ] Ramesh R . Sarukkai , Foundations of Web Technology ,
Kluwer Academic Publishers , 2002 .
[ 4 ] WWW2005 Panel : the Dynamic Networking Effects of the Web ” , Moderator : Ramesh Sarukkai .
“ Exploiting
891
