MemoSpace : A visualization tool for Web navigation Falk Schmidsberger Jacqueline Waniek
Holger Langner
Keio University
5322 Endo Fujisawa ,
Kanagawa 252 8520 , Japan +81 466 49 5111 ext . 53827 waniek@sfckeioacjp
Chemnitz University of Technology
Chemnitz University of Technology
D 09107 Chemnitz +49 371 531 1643
D 09107 Chemnitz +49 371 531 1643 holgerlangner@informatik falkschmidsberger@informatik tu chemnitz.de tu chemnitz.de
ABSTRACT A central aspect of reducing orientation problems in web navigation concerns the design of adequate navigation aids . Visualization of users’ navigation path in form of a temporalspatial template can function as external memory of users’ search history , thereby supporting the user to find previously visited sites , getting an overview of the search process and moreover , provide structure for the complex WorldWideWeb ( WWW ) environment . This paper presents an application for dynamic 2 and 3 dimensional visualizations of users’ navigation paths , called MemoSpace . In an explorative study , users behavior and subjective evaluation of a MemoSpace application was examined .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Interfaces Presentation ( eg , HCI) ] : User Interfaces – Graphical user interface . General Terms : Design , Human Factors . Keywords : Navigation , MemoSpace .
1 . INTRODUCTION The well known problem of users’ disorientation in the WWW emerges from the high complexity of the WWW environment . Users easily loose track of their navigation path , and find it difficult to obtain a mental spatial representation of this multidimensional digital environment . Consequently , repeatedly reported problems in WWW navigation are not knowing where you are , not knowing how to get back to previously visited information , not knowing which sites have already been visited [ 3 ] . The challenge is best met by providing structure . It is widely agreed that adequate navigation aids support users’ navigation task and reduce disorientation [ 1][2 ] . Navigation aids can provide a thematic overview . Moreover , navigation aids in form of maps can visualize the topological structure of the navigation space . A map like navigation aid shows graphically visited sites , and the traversed navigation path . This temporal spatial template of the traversed navigation space can function as external memory of users’ search history . The visual representation of users’ navigation path organizes and provides structure for the complex and difficult to comprehend multidimensional navigation space . Moreover , it is generally assumed that the visualization of the navigation space facilitates the construction of a mental
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . itself representation of the navigation space by the user . This mental representation could be a survey type map or schema [ 3 ] . An adequate mental representation of the navigation spaces’ typology can facilitate navigation and can reduce orientation loss [ 4 ] . In order to support WWW navigation and to reduce orientation loss , we developed an application for visualization and tracking of users’ navigation path , called “ MemoSpace ” . 2 . MemoSpace MemoSpace is a prototypical application of VisualWeb for web browsing . VisualWeb is a prototypical programming framework for dynamic 3D visualizations of multi dimensional data sets . It uses Java3D as programming library and provides base functionality to encapsulate data objects into graphical primitives that can be interactively manipulated . Visual objects can be animated and aggregated to form more complex visual structures . MemoSpace generates 3D visualizations of browsing histories that can be interactively explored in a separate navigation window besides the web browser . Figure 1 exemplary shows the visual representation of a search history in MemoSpace . The blue circles mark visited web sites which are labeled according to their web address . Users can change these labels according to their own preferences .
Figure 1 . MemoSpace
The blue connection lines between web sites ( see Figure 1 ) visualize users’ search history , thereby generating a temporalspatial template of users’ navigation path through the web . Alternatively , the user can visualize his/her browsing paths as a 2D tree that grows from the bottom up as new web pages are explored . This tree like visualization emphasizes the temporal order in which documents were explored as well as which hyperlinks have been chosen from a certain web page . The user can easily trace back his/her way from a dead end of a web search path in order to re establish a former search task . Moreover , using
900 this as a starting point , users can experiment with various possibilities to enrich this representation even further by adding visual cues such as coloring or scaling up certain nodes and links to emphasize often visited or out dated pages . In addition , it is possible to add comments on web pages , mark certain documents as bookmarks and link them together to a topic map , thus forming a complementary content related visualization layer . This offers the possibility to observe a hypertext space easily from different viewpoints , switching between certain abstraction layers by navigation in 3D . Furthermore , the user can choose between different visualization metaphors . For example , a 2D Tree is not the optimal choice , if the complete hyperlink structure of a certain document base has to be visualized ( especially if it contains cycles ) . In this case , a visualization metaphor that relies on spring embedder algorithms may produce better results . Furthermore the result of a web search can be shared with other users ( currently only offline as a file ) . 3 . Evaluation of MemoSpace A modified version of MemoSpace was used in an explorative study in order to observe users navigation behavior and to evaluate the application . 3.1 Method Eleven students ( six females and five males ) at Chemnitz University of Technology took part in the study . Participants received credit points for participation . Participants of the study were asked to search for information within a closed space of hypertext documents . The documents navigational structure was visualized with MemoSpace in a frame beside the text and participants could navigate within the document via MemoSpace . Participants’ task was to find answers to questions presented by the experimenter as fast as possible within the document . A time limit of 2 minutes was set for each search and a time limit of 10 minutes was set for the total search session . When the 10 minutes had expired , participants had to evaluate the application according to orientation problems , learning , satisfaction , layout , handling and task adequacy . Before and after the search task a questionnaire regarding knowledge questions of the documents content were administered to participants . While participants searched for answers within the documents , eye movements and navigation operations were recorded . 3.2 Results 321 Subjective Evaluation Participants rated experienced orientation problems , learning , satisfaction , layout , handling and task adequacy on 7 level rating scales ( 1=strongly disagree , 7=strongly agree ) . Items of the questionnaire were recoded in order to get a one directional scale . After recoding , a high scale value indicates a positive evaluation whereas a low value indicates a negative evaluation . Overall , participants evaluated MemoSpace positively . The average rating was 5 , which corresponds with an evaluation of “ I am rater satisfied with the system ” ( M=5.24 ; SD=072 ) Highest ratings could be found for handling ( M=5.73 ; SD=0.73 ) , orientation ( M=5.67 ; SD=0.68 ) , layout ( M=5.33 ; SD=1.08 ) and satisfaction with the system ( M=5.03 ; SD=108 ) Lowest ratings were reported for learning ( M=3.82 ; SD=1.31 ) , and task adequacy ( M=3.60 ; SD=071 ) 322 Search task Participants fulfilled on average 18 searches within the time limit of 10 minutes , M=17.73 , SD=398 For each search they needed less than 35 seconds which indicates an efficient search . On average 13 searches resulted in the correct answer , M=13.45 ; SD=438 Consequently , 25 % of the searches led to a wrong answer which indicates a rather low search effectiveness . 323 Knowledge acquisition Acquired knowledge was measured by subtracting participants’ pre and post test results . Participants could reach on average four more points in the post test compared to the pre test , M=3.82 ; SD=178 4 . Discussion Participants’ evaluation suggests that MemoSpace is easy to handle and the visualization of the documents navigational structure prevented orientation layout of MemoSpace was positively rated . However , MemoSpace still needs to be improved in order to support knowledge acquisition and searching for specific information in a more efficient way . The existent prototype focuses on the search history which is related to users’ retrospective behavior . MemoSpace should be extended in order to support also prospective behavior such as planning a navigational route or the selection of appropriate sites in regard of users’ search goal . loss . Also the
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was conducted in the eye tracking laboratory of Prof . Krems at the Institute of Psychology at Chemnitz University . We would also like to thank Karolin Ewald , who helped with the preparation of the experiment and data collection . This project was founded in part by the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Chen , C . , and Rada , R . Interacting with hypertext : A studies . Human meta analysis of Computer Interaction , 11(2 , 1996 ) , 125 156 . experimental
[ 2 ] de Jong , T . , and van der Hulst , A . The effects of graphical overviews on knowledge acquisition in hypertext . Journal of Computer Assisted Learning 18 , 2 ( 2002 ) , 219 231 .
[ 3 ] Edwards , D . M . , and Hardman , L . "Lost in Hyperspace" : Cognitive mapping and navigation in a hypertext environment . ( Ed. ) , Hypertext : Theory ( pp . 105 125 ) . Norwood , NJ : Ablex , 1989 .
In R . McAleese into practice
[ 4 ] Müller Kalthoff , T . , and Möller , J . The effects of graphical overviews , prior knowledge , and self concept on hypertext disorientation and learning achievement . Journal of Educational Multimedia & Hypermedia , 12 ( 2 , 2003 ) , 117 134 .
901
