Personal TV Viewing by Using Live Chat as Metadata Hisashi Miyamori
Satoshi Nakamura
Katsumi Tanaka
National Institute of Information and Communications Technology ( NICT ) 3 5 Hikari dai Seika cho Souraku gun ,
National Institute of Information and Communications Technology ( NICT ) 3 5 Hikari dai Seika cho Souraku gun ,
Kyoto , 619 0289 Japan
+81 774 98 6873 miya@nictgojp
Kyoto , 619 0289 Japan
+81 774 98 6873 gon@nictgojp
National Institute of Information and Communications Technology ( NICT )
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo , Kyoto ,
Kyoto University
606 8501 Japan ktanaka@ikyoto uacjp
ABSTRACT We propose a new TV viewing method by personalizing TV programs with live chat information on the Web . It enables a new way of viewing TV content from different perspectives reflecting viewers' viewpoints .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H24 [ DATABASE MANAGEMENT ] : Systems – multimedia databases , H51 [ INFORMATION INTERFACES AND PRESENTATION ] : Multimedia Information Systems – video . General Terms : Algorithms , Management , Documentation , Human Factors Keywords : live chat , fusion of broadcast and web content , metadata generation , viewer , viewpoint , semantic analysis , digest
1 . INTRODUCTION Recently , the amount of TV program data that can be recorded at home has been rapidly increasing with the improvement in the performance of hard disk ( HD ) recorders . Currently , 600GBcapacity HD recorders have appeared in the market with their recording capability of more than 1070 hours at a certain quality . Because users do not have an unlimited amount of time to view such content , however , there is a great need for functions that can efficiently search only necessary segments of video from a huge amount of recorded data , present an overview of the content in a compact form , or provide a digest in a limited amount of time . Video indexing is one of the fundamental techniques to achieve such functions . Conventionally , several multimodal indexing methods have been proposed using visual features such as color [ 1 ] , camera motion [ 2 ] , human faces [ 3 ] , texts obtained from closed captions [ 4 ] , classes and volumes of audio information [ 5 ] . However , because these methods are based on data provided by broadcast stations , the obtained indices basically reflect only the intentions of TV programmers and stations . Therefore , conventional methods cannot incorporate factors such as the responses of other viewers of a TV program into functions of scene search , summary presentation , and digest viewing . Meanwhile , growing attention has been recently focused on live chat on the Web . Live chat communities on the Internet are
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . virtual communities where viewers of a TV program congregate , post messages in real time about their impressions or the program itself , and have fun with such conversations . By enjoying the chats in parallel with a TV program , users can feel a sense of unity by virtually sharing emotions with other viewers . We propose a new TV viewing method by personalizing TV programs with live chat information on the Web . Statistical analysis and pattern recognition of the data on the chat can effectively extract metadata related to the viewer's viewpoint such as important scenes in the program or responses by a particular viewer . The extracted metadata is expected to enable a new way of viewing TV content from different perspectives reflecting viewers' viewpoints .
2 . OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED METHOD The overview of the proposed method is shown in figure 1 . Although it depends on settings , a piece of information exchanged on a live chat is basically composed of three components : the time when the message was posted , the ID of the person who posted the message , and the content of the message , as shown in figure 2 . First , the recorded chat data are parsed to extract the time when the message was posted , the ID of a person who posted the message , and the content of the message . The post time is often out of sync with the time when the corresponding event happened in the program . This is because the viewer posts messages after events happen in the video . In this paper , the post time is adjusted by calculating the compensation time corresponding to the time it takes to create the text of the posted message . Then , the intensity of responses is calculated by counting the number of message entries in a unit of time . Also , the emotional intensities of viewers' enjoyment and depression are extracted by detecting the frequencies of ASCII art expressions that appear in the messages by pattern matching . Practically , the detection can be improved by incorporating a learning approach using words and phrases representing enjoyment such as : “ good , ” “ great , ” “ amazing , ” “ wow , ” and “ gee , ” or words and phrases representing depression such as : “ alas , ” “ no , ” “ uh oh , ” “ boo hoo ” , and “ sigh ” . As a result , the following group of indices , composed of sequences of values , is generated . For total viewers : the measured time , the measured unit of time , the intensity of responses , and the intensity of enjoyment/depression . For individual viewers : the ID of a person who posted the message , the measured time , the measured unit of time , the intensity of responses , and the intensity of enjoyment/depression .
948 expect to achieve a greater diversity of TV viewing if an infrastructure is available that actively distributes , manages , and utilizes viewer's information describing gender , age , district , and nationality , etc . For example , it is anticipated that one will be able to view TV in a way that reflects the viewpoint of men or women , of different generations , of districts or of nations . If users accept these viewing styles , various live chat communities will be created other than the so called 2ch , which is one of the biggest Japanese bulletin board , in the future . However , there are many issues in this topic , including protection of private information .
Figure 3 . Implemented TV viewing screen using metadata generated by the proposed method
TV programmer
TV station
Live chat
Other viewers
User side system input , operation display , results
Inside the dotted lines are the factors newly introduced by the proposed method
User
Figure 4 . Concept of proposed method
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Nagasaka , A . , and Tanaka , Y . , Automatic video indexing and full video search for object appearances , IPSJ , Vol.33 , No.4 , pp.543 550 , 1992 .
[ 2 ] Akutsu , A . , Tonomura , Y . , Hashimoto , H . , and Ohba , Y . ,
Video indexing using motion vectors , SPIE Proc . VCIP '92 , pp.522 530 , 1992 .
[ 3 ] Smith , M . , and Kanade , T . , Video Skimming and
Characterization through the Combination of Image and Language Understanding Techniques , CVPR , 1997 .
[ 4 ] Nakamura , Y . , and Kanade , T . , Semantic analysis for video contents extraction spotting by association in news video , ACM Multimedia , pp.393 401 , 1997 .
[ 5 ] Miyamori , H . , Automatic annotation of tennis action for content based retrieval by integrated audio and visual information , CIVR2003 , LNCS2728 , Springer Verlag , pp.331 341 , 2003 .
Figure 1 . Processing overview of the proposed method
80 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:48:22 ID:R9C+YqFS
What a severe blitz , but here it comes! Touch━━━━━(ﾟ∀ﾟ)━━━━━Down!!
81 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:48:28 ID:+FNfUHkk Unstoppable . They might get more than 50 points… 82 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:48:30 ID:BZZg6/Cd
Only in the 1st quarter…
83 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:48:48 ID:7iYg967m
Player A is easily offended at the time like this . His jumping pass is unforgivable considering his height .
84 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:49:15 ID:3bLzDEmh Dogfight might be easier for beginners to understand . 85 Name : anonymous 04/10/19 08:49:23 ID:R9C+YqFS Many blitz . Wonder how many were left in the back…
Figure 2 . Conversation in a live chat segmented into topics , and
3 . IMPLEMENTATION OF PROTOTYPE An implementation example of a TV viewing screen using the metadata generated by the proposed method is illustrated in figure 3 . In the figure , the headings are displayed using the closed captions the partial video corresponding to each topic is shown as a thumbnail . Hyperlink texts on the right of each thumbnail are also displayed using the closed captions . Below that , texts indicate the viewers' responses or the degree of emotion with facial icons representing emotions and some message texts obtained from the live chat . One of the biggest advantages of the proposed method using a live chat is that the method can incorporate factors such as the viewpoints and responses of other viewers of a TV program into the generated metadata . The proposed method introduces a new factor of viewers' responses , which did not exist in the conventional methods , as shown in figure 4 . The proposed method provides viewing methods with various added values such as : chronological/ranking display using the viewers' responses , viewing intensities of responses , enjoyment , or depression , discovery or sharing of the sense of value of other viewers with similar/different interests as the user . The implemented prototype demonstrated that the proposed method based on the time when the message was posted , the ID of the person who posted the message , and the content of the message obtained from the live chat enables a new way of viewing TV programs from different perspectives . In addition , we the viewers' that shares
949
