Mining Web Site ’s Topic Hierarchy Nan Liu
Christopher C . Yang
Department of Systems Engineering and
Engineering Management
The Chinese University of Hong Kong nliu@secuhkeduhk
ABSTRACT Searching and navigating a Web site is a tedious task and the hierarchical models , such as site maps , are frequently used for organizing the Web site ’s content . In this work , we propose to model a Web site ’s content structure using the topic hierarchy , a directed tree rooted at a Web site ’s homepage in which the vertices and edges correspond to Web pages and hyperlinks . Our algorithm for mining a Web site ’s topic hierarchy utilizes three types of information associated with a Web site : link structure , directory structure and Web pages’ content .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval – search process , retrieval models General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords : Content Structure , Web Mining , Topic Hierarchy
1 . INTRODUCTION Recent years have seen an increasing interest in the modeling of various Web structures . Such models have been shown to effectively enhance the performance of Web search tasks . However , almost all the existing works focus on the modeling of the entire Web . Recently , there have been several interesting applications [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] , which only deal with a subset of the Web , in particular , pages within a particular Web site . Such applications call for the effective modeling of a complete Web site instead of the entire Web . In this work , we propose to use a topic hierarchy to model a Web site ’s content structure .
2 . WEB SITE CONTENT STRUCTURE Unlike the whole Web , Web sites are much more structured . Organizing content is a necessary step when one creates a Web site . The most common devices for content organization include hyperlinks among related pages and folders dividing large number of pages into smaller groups . In addition , similar to other types of publications such as book , a hierarchical structure is typically used to present information in a Web site for its simplicity and clarity . A large Web site includes very broad topics For example , the information of an organization Web site ( eg IBM ) includes several subtopics , such as products , services & solutions , support & downloads , etc . Usually , sub topics can be further divided into sub topics . Such a process resembles the division of a book into chapters , sections and subsections . However , a Web site doesn’t provide the table of content to display its hierarchical content
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 .
Department of Systems Engineering and
Engineering Management
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
+852 2609 8239 yang@secuhkeduhk structure as a book does . Although a site map may be provided at some Web sites , existing site maps only covers a very small proportion of Web pages within a site partially due to the tedious process of constructing it manually . Constructing site maps become even more difficult when parts of a site are created independently by different authors . For example , within a departmental site in an academic institution , different professors’ personal sites are designed by themselves and the linked to the departmental site . In this work , we propose to model Web site ’s content structure using a topic hierarchy . A topic hierarchy for a Web site is a directed tree structure whose vertices and edges correspond to Web pages and hyperlinks from the Web site . A topic hierarchy must have the following properties : • •
It must be rooted at the homepage of the Web site . It covers all the pages in a Web site that can be reached from the Web site ’s homepage by following a series of hyperlinks . • All hyperlinks included in the topic hierarchy must be downward links , ie , pointing from ancestors to their direct descendants .
Each sub tree t within the topic hierarchy captures a particular topic T , which is elaborated by the pages in the sub tree . The root page of t connects directly to a set of pages P in the topic hierarchy . Those pages in P may themselves be root pages of sub trees contained by t , which correspond to sub topics of T . Figure 1 below shows part of the topic hierarchy for the Stanford database group ’s Web site : www dbstanfordedu
Database Group
( /index.html )
Member ( /db_pages/ members.html )
Project
( /db_pages/ projects.html )
Ullman ( /~ullman/ index.html )
Garcia Molina
( /people/ hector.html )
Data Motion ( /datamotion/ index.html )
Data Stream
( /stream/ index.html )
Figure 1 : Partial Topic Hierarchy for www dbstanfordedu
3 . TOPIC HIERARCHY MINING As a content representation model , topic hierarchy aims at capturing the semantic relationships among Web pages . Chen et al . [ 3 ] suggests using the presence of hyperlinks as an indication of semantic relationships among pages . They classify the semantic
980 is non hierarchical , relationships among pages into two broad classes : association and aggregation . Aggregation is kind of hierarchical relationship , in which the parent node represents a broader concept than the child node . It is non reflexive , non symmetric and transitive . An example of aggregation relationship is the link from the staff page of an organization to an individual staff ’s personal page . Association reflexive and symmetric . Examples of association include links from a project page to its group members’ pages , where a project doesn’t conceptually subsume its members . Following these notions , topic hierarchy mining can be viewed as the process of selecting a sub set of hyperlinks indicating aggregation relationship to connect the web pages under the constraint that resulted structure must have the properties of a topic hierarchy . Three types of information are used in the mining of topic hierarchy : link information , content information and directory information . Link information about a Web site can be represented by a directed graph G(V , E ) , where V and E are vertex and edge sets . Content information can be obtained by extracting the textual content from Web pages . Directory information of Web pages is revealed by the path description within their URLs . The content and directory information are incorporated into the directed graph G(V , E ) by assigning a cost to each link ( u→v ) based on the content dissimilarity and path dissimilarity between u and v . • Content Dissimilarity : The set of terms used on a web page can roughly tell us about its content . Semantically related pages often mention many common terms . We represent a page ’s textual content by the simple bag ofterms model , where each page is associated with a set of terms contained in its text . The dissimilarity between two pages u and v is then computed as follows : d content
−=1),( vu
S S u u
∩ ∪
S S v v
( 1 )
Path Dissimilarity : where Su and Sv are the sets of terms on u and v respectively . • Directory is a commonly used for organizing large number of documents . A web designer creates folders and subfolders to group similar pages together . Therefore , the locations of pages in the web site ’s directory can also be used to measure their semantic relationships . A Web pages ’s URL format protocol::/hostname[:port number][/path ] . By splitting a URL ’s path component using “ / ” as delimiter , we can represent it by a list of tokens corresponding to the folder names and the file name . For instance , a path such as “ n1/n2/n3 ” is represented by ( n1 , n2 , n3 ) . Given two pages u and v , whose paths are represented as ( u1 , u2 , , un ) and ( v1 , v2 , , vm ) , the path dissimilarity between them is : is of the d path
×−= vu 21),( i min{
1|
≤≤ i nm min( ) , + nm
≠∧ u i v i
− 1}
( 2 )
For example , the two paths “ people/widom/research.html ” and “ people/ullman/teaching.html ” have a dissimilarity of 2/3 for they start to differ from each other at the second folder . The total cost of a hyperlink ( u→v ) is a weighted sum of the two types of dissimilarities , ie , ⋅ d wvu ),(
=→ vu ),( cost u (
+ v
)
⋅ d w content content path path
( 3 ) where wcontent and wpath are weights controlling the relative importance of the two types of dissimilarity .
After assigning costs to edges in G(V,E ) , we use the single source shortest path algorithm to build the topic hierarchy , which has a time complexity of O(|V|2 ) . The homepage of the Web site is used as the source node . After each iteration , we can find the shortest path to one particular node as well as determining its parent in the topic hierarchy . The resulted shortest path tree is satisfies all properties of a topic hierarchy .
4 . EXPERIMENTS We have tested our algorithm on two Web sites : wwwdbstanfordedu and wwwcscmuedu For each of the two sites , we have crawled all pages on these two hosts that are reachable from their homepages , which include about 4600 pages from www dbstanfordedu and 1300 pages from wwwcscmuedu From these two sets of pages , we picked out pages which are linked from more than one pages within the same site to form the evaluation set . For each page in the evaluation set , we manually examined the pages linking to it and selected the one having an aggregation relationship with the linked page as its parent . To evaluate a topic hierarchy , we check if a page ’s parent in the topic hierarchy matches with the one assigned by human judge . This allows us to measure the accuracy on the evaluation set . We used the breadth first traversal algorithm ( I ) as the baseline method , as it can be viewed as a simplistic version of shortest path algorithm which weighs all edges uniformly . To study the effect of content and path dissimilarity , we tested 3 schemes of weighing the edges for the shortest path algorithm : ( II ) wpath=1,wcontent=0 , ( III ) wpath=0,wcontent=1 , ( IV ) wpath=1,wcontent=1 . Table 1 below shows the accuracies of I , II , III and IV on the two data sets . Table 1 . Accuracy Comparison of Four Algorithms
I
II
III
IV
83.1 % 83.1 %
81.8 % 83.1 %
81.6 % 82.5 %
74.3 % 81.8 % www dbstanfordedu wwwcscmuedu 5 . Conclusion In this work , we have proposed the topic hierarchy to model a Web site content structure in order to support the searching process . In addition to the hyperlink relationship , we also adopt the content and path dissimilarities . Best first search is utilized to construct the topic hierarchy . In the experiment , we find that our proposed technique outperforms the baseline method that uses hyperlink relationship only .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] WS Li , O . Kolak , Q . Vu and H . Takano . Defining Logical
Domains in a Web Site . Proc . of ACM Hypertext , San Antonio , 2000
[ 2 ] M . Ester , HP Kriegel and M . Schubert . Web Site Mining : A new way to spot Competitors , Customers and Suppliers in the World Wide Web . In Proc . of ACM SIGKDD 2002 [ 3 ] Z . Chen , S . Liu , W . Liu , G . Pu and WY Ma . Building a
Web Thesaurus from Web Link Structure . In Proc . of ACM SIGIR , Toronto , Canada , 2003
981
