Ontology based Learning Content Repurposing Erik Duval Katrien Verbert
Dragan Gašević , Jelena Jovanović FON School of Business Administration ,
Dept . Computerwetenschappen , Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Celestijnenlaan 200A , B 3001 Leuven , Belgium
University of Belgrade
POB 52 , Jove Ilića 154 , Belgrade ,
Serbia and Montenegro gasevic@yahoo.com , jeljov@fonbgacyu http://goodoldaiorgyu
Dept . Computerwetenschappen , Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Celestijnenlaan 200A , B 3001 Leuven , Belgium
Erikduval@cskuleuvenacbe
Katrienverbert@cskuleuvenacbe
ABSTRACT This paper investigates basic research issues that need to be addressed for developing an architecture that enables repurposing of learning objects in a flexible way . Currently , there are a number of Learning Object Content Models ( eg the SCORM Content Aggregation Model ) that define learning objects and their components in a more or less precise way . However , these models do not allow repurposing of fine grained components ( sentences , images… ) . We developed an ontology based solution for content repurposing . The ontology is a solid basis for an architecture that will enable on the fly access to learning object components and that will facilitate repurposing these components . Categories and Subject Descriptors K.3 [ Computing Milieux ] : Computers and Education ; H3m [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Miscellaneous General Terms : Learning objects Keywords : Content models , metadata , ontologies , repurposing
1 . INTRODUCTION Learning objects ( LOs ) and their reusability are one of the most important current research topics in the learning technology community [ 1 ] . Reusability of LOs is conventionally regarded as the use of entire LOs in different contexts . The Learning Object Metadata ( LOM ) standard [ 2 ] provides a set of metadata elements for describing LOs : this facilitates finding relevant LOs . However , in many cases we need to reuse specific parts of a LO , rather then the LO as a whole . In such situations , current practice is to copy & paste in order to reuse specifically those parts of a document ( eg a definition , an example or an illustration ) that are relevant . However , this can be rather tedious and time consuming . More important , such an approach is non scalable in terms of maintenance , since each time you copy a content unit , a new place is created that needs to be maintained . Our goal is to release authors from the task of reusing parts of LOs manually , by automating that process as much as possible . Therefore , we need a LO content format that includes an explicit definition of the structure of the LO . We developed an ontology that provides an explicit definition of the LO content structure , formally specifying both LO component those components . for extracting/transforming LO content into this ontology content format ( we call those tools disaggregators ) as well as tools for
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan . ACM 1 59593 051 5/05/0005 . relationships between tools we types and Furthermore , need repurposing ontology aware content in real world applications . This approach will enable not only repurposing of complete LOs , but also the retrieval and repurposing of relevant components . In the next section , we briefly outline the ALOCoM ontology . Section 3 illustrates the role of the ontology in the process of authoring learning materials . Section 4 elaborates on tool support and conclusions and remarks on future work conclude this paper . 2 . THE ALOCOM ONTOLOGY We developed a generic content model ( ALOCoM ) that defines LOs and their components [ 7 ] . The model differentiates between Content Fragments ( CF ) , Content Objects ( CO ) , and Learning Objects ( LO ) . CFs are content units in their most basic form , like text , audio and video . Basically , CFs are raw digital resources . They can be further specialized into discrete ( graphic , text , image ) and continuous ( audio , video , simulation and animation ) elements . COs aggregate CFs and add navigation . Navigation elements should enable proper structuring of CFs within a CO . Besides CFs , a CO can include other COs as well . At the next aggregation level , a LO is defined as a collection of COs with an associated learning objective . We defined content types for each of these components . We introduced CF types such as images , text , audio and video . For defining CO Information Architectures , like the Information Block Architecture [ 4 ] developed by Dr . Horn and the IBM Darwin Information Typing Architecture [ 6 ] . These architectures define information types ( eg concept , principle , task ) and their building blocks ( eg example , definition , analogy ) . As a starting point , we defined CO types and their structure using DITA concepts , since DITA is a recent architecture with rich documentation and online support [ 6 ] . Besides CF and CO types , the ontology identifies LO types . For now , only a slide presentation type is defined . Finally , the ontology defines the relationships between the LO components . Both aggregation and navigation relations are specified . For more details about the ontology , we refer to [ 7 ] . 3 . THE ROLE OF THE ONTOLOGY IN investigated existing types , we
THE AUTHORING PROCESS
A teacher ( or another kind of author ) uses an authoring tool to produce learning materials for students . Since our aim is to facilitate the process of learning content authoring , we provide the teacher with the technology that enables him/her to reuse existing components deposed in LORs . In our model , the LOR should provide access not only to complete LOs , but also to smaller components , ie COs and CFs as they are defined in ALOCoM . In order to have LORs with ALOCoM ontology aware content , we transform LOs into a form compliant with the ALOCoM ontology . That is why we need tools we call disaggregators . They take as input LOs in any domain/tool specific format and convert them into an ALOCoM compliant output format . Having learning
1140 content disaggregated to the level of a single image , text fragment or audio/video clip , we enable more flexible content reuse and make the process of composing new learning materials more lightweight and less time consuming . Of course , our intent is not to engage a teacher in the process of searching for and putting together numerous content fragments . Instead he/she must have technical support that automatically searches the LOR for a particular image , example , definition or table and assembles them into a meaningful learning unit . Finally , the teacher can refine and fine tune the learning material thus generated . Of course , the author can also add new content to the assembly of reused components . Further , this kind of scenario demands for semantic annotations of LOs ( both content and metadata , for details see [ 3 ] ) deposited in LORs . Those annotations should be in accordance with domain ontologies . Therefore , we argue for content structuring according to the ALOCOM ontology as well as for its semantic markup compliant with appropriate domain ontologies . Suppose a teacher is preparing a course on the Darwin evolution theory . For such a course , ( s)he needs textual descriptions , images , some summary tables and possibly some video clips . The conventional approach is to search LORs for domain relevant LOs , browse through obtained files , mark useful components ( text , image etc. ) , copy & paste those components into the LO under construction and finally fine tune the assembly . In the approach that we propose , the author selects the most relevant components from the automatically determined set prepared for him/her and defines their correct sequence . The author can enhance the generated materials , eg giving his/her own overview of the evolution process , provide students with additional readings in the form of footnotes or give an example . 4 . TOOL SUPPORT We need tools for extracting/transforming LO content into ontology aware content as well as tools for repurposing ontologyaware content in new applications . 41 Creating ontology aware content Extracting ALOCoM aware content from the content produced by real world authoring tools ( eg MS PowerPoint , OpenOffice.org etc . ) is a complex task since it must consider a huge variety of source formats and implementation techniques . Most tools use their own ( vendor specific ) format for storing learning materials . Although the great majority of them support other formats through an export function , it is often the case that information is lost when exporting tool specific formats ( eg MS Word ) into other formats ( eg OpenOfficeorg ) Our goal is to develop a tool that maps all different tool specific formats into the ALOCoM format . This task requires knowledge of the internal organization ( ie structure ) of the format we are mapping into the ontologyaware content . For content authoring tools that have their own API ( eg Microsoft ’s .Net API for the MS Office tools ) , we use this API to retrieve both content and structure of their documents . For other formats like HTML and PDF , we can use Java parsers to retrieve the same information . Finally , instances of the ALOCoM ontology are created using Jena – a Java based framework for the Semantic Web [ 5 ] . 42 Repurposing ontology aware content Our goal is to create new LOs out of components in the ALOCoM format . Having LOs disaggregated into the ALOCoM format , we have access to their meaningful components like their definitions and references . These components are reassembled in new LOs . Since authors use their favorite authoring tools to prepare LOs , we need to export the newly created LOs to these tool specific
( eg OpenOffice.org formats . We use Jena to retrieve the content of ALOCoM components . We export this content to specific formats , for content authoring tools that have their own API we use again their well defined programming libraries . 5 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we have argued for the need of an architecture that enables on the fly repurposing of LO components . Such an architecture requires a flexible underlying model for LO components that we provide in the form of the ALOCoM ontology . Currently , the ontology fully covers slide presentations . The ontology is a solid foundation for the development of an ontology based infrastructure for authoring learning materials , extensively grounded on repurposing of existing components . The work reported in this paper is still in its rather early stages . We are currently working on the transformation from different tool specific contents slides , Word documents ) to the ALOCoM ontology compliant content and vice versa . For now , the framework transforms MS PowerPoint and OpenOffice.org slide presentations . We will add support for new LO types ( eg reports ) , and we will refine the ALOCoM ontology to better distinguish between navigation , content and presentation in learning materials , using well known principles from the Web engineering community . Further , our plans include the enrichment of the ALOCoM components with semantic markup , using concepts from appropriate domain ontologies . Finally , we are considering extending the ALOCoM ontology with additional concepts and properties that would facilitate adaptation of content elements according to the specific preferences and needs of each individual learner . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We gratefully acknowledge the KULeuven research council through the BALO project , and of the European Commission through the ProLearn Network of excellence , which has facilitated the collaboration between the Computer Science Department of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven and the GOOD OLD AI group at the University of Belgrade . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Duval , E . and Hodgins , W . , “ A LOM research agenda , ” In Proceedings of the 12th International World Wide Web Conference . , Budapest , Hungary , 2003 , pp . 1 9 . the financial support of
[ 2 ] Duval , E . ( 2002 ) , editor . 1484121 IEEE Standard for learning Object Metadata . June 2002 .
[ 3 ] Gašević , D . et al , “ Enhancing Learning Object Content on the Semantic Web , ” In Proceedings of the 4th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Learning Technologies , Joensuu , Finland , 2004 , pp . 714 716 .
[ 4 ] Horn , R . E . , “ Structured writing as a paradigm ” , In Instruct .
Devel . : the State of the Art . Englewood Cliffs , N.J , 1998 .
[ 5 ] McBride , B . , “ Jena : A Semantic Web Toolkit , ” IEEE Inter .
Comp . , Vol . 6 , No.6 , 2002 , pp . 55 59 .
[ 6 ] Priestley , M . , “ DITA XML : a reuse by reference architecture for technical documentation , ” In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Computer Documentation . , Sante Fe , USA , 2001 , pp . 152 156 .
[ 7 ] Verbert , K . et al , “ Towards a Global Component Architecture for Learning Objects : an Ontology Based Approach ” , In Proc . of OTM 2004 Workshop on Ontologies , Semantics and E learning , Agia Napa , Cyprus , 2004 .
1141
