Social Spammer Detection with
Sentiment Information
Xia Hu , Jiliang Tang , Huiji Gao , and Huan Liu
Computer Science and Engineering
Arizona State University , Tempe , AZ 85287 , USA
Email : {xia.hu , jiliang.tang , huiji.gao , huanliu}@asuedu
Abstract—Social media is a popular platform for spammers to unfairly overwhelm normal users with unwanted or fake content via social networking . The spammers significantly hinder the use of social media systems for effective information dissemination and sharing . Different from the spammers in traditional platforms such as email and the Web , spammers in social media can easily connect with each other , sometimes without mutual consent . They collude with each other to imitate normal users by quickly accumulating a large number of “ human ” friends . In addition , content information in social media is noisy and unstructured . It is infeasible to directly apply traditional spammer detection methods in social media . Understanding and detecting deception has been extensively studied in traditional sociology and social sciences . Motivated by psychological findings in physical world , we investigate whether sentiment analysis can help spammer detection in online social media . In particular , we first conduct an exploratory study to analyze the sentiment differences between spammers and normal users ; and then present an optimization formulation that incorporates sentiment information into a novel social spammer detection framework . Experimental results on real world social media datasets show the superior performance of the proposed framework by harnessing sentiment analysis for social spammer detection .
I .
INTRODUCTION
Social media services , like Twitter and Facebook , have become more and more popular in various scenarios such as marketing , journalism or public relations . With the growing availability of social media , social spammers [ 1 ] have emerged to unfairly overwhelm normal users with unwanted or fake content via social networking . Social spammers can be coordinated to launch various attacks such as befriending victims and then grabbing their personal information [ 2 ] , conducting spam campaigns which lead to phishing , malware , and scams [ 3 ] , and conducting political astroturf [ 4 ] , [ 5 ] . The spamming in social media significantly hinders the quality of social networking for effective information dissemination and sharing . Successful social spammer detection is important to improve the quality of user experience , and to positively impact the overall value of the social media systems [ 6 ] .
Spammer detection has been studied for years in traditional platforms such as email and the Web , which differ substantially from social media services . First , social media services allow users to easily connect with each other , sometimes without mutual consent . For example , in Twitter , anyone can follow anyone else without prior consent from the followee.1 Many users simply follow back when they are followed by someone
1Although there is often an option for a user to manually ( dis)approve a following request , it is rarely used by normal users for convenience . for the sake of courtesy [ 7 ] . This reflexive reciprocity makes it easier for social spammers to collude with each other to imitate normal users by quickly accumulating a large number of social relations . Second , content information in social media is noisy and unstructured . When composing a message , users often prefer to use newly created abbreviations or acronyms that seldom appear in conventional text documents . For example , messages like “ How r u ? ” and “ it ’s cooool ” are popular in social media , but they are not even formal words . Although they provide a better user experience , unstructured expressions make it very difficult to accurately identify the semantic meanings of these messages . The characteristics of social media services present great challenges to capture the deception of social spammers .
Understanding and detecting deception has been extensively studied in psychology and social sciences . It is wellestablished that microexpressions [ 8 ] play a distinct role in detecting deception . Microexpression is an involuntary facial expression of humans according to sentiments experienced . It usually occurs when a person is consciously trying to conceal all signs of how he or she is feeling [ 8 ] . Ekman [ 9 ] reported that facial and emotional “ microexpressions ” could be useful to assist in lie detection after testing a total of 20,000 people [ 10 ] from all walks of life . Also , as pointed out by Matsumoto et al . [ 11 ] , one may not conclude that someone is lying if a microexpression is detected but that there is more to the story than is being told . Inspired by the psychological findings , we explore whether the utilization of sentiment information could help capture deceptions of the social spammers .
In this paper , we study the problem of utilizing sentiment information for effective social spammer detection . Specifically , we investigate the following questions : Is sentiment information potentially useful for social spammer detection ? How can sentiment information be explicitly represented and incorporated for social spammer detection ? Is the integration of sentiment analysis helpful for our studied problem ? To answer these questions , it results in a novel framework for social Spammer Detection with Sentiment information ( SDS ) . In particular , we first investigate whether sentiment differences between spammers and normal users exist in social media data . Then we discuss how to model sentiment information , combined with content and network information , in a novel social spammer detection framework . Finally , we conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the proposed model . The main contributions of the paper are outlined as follows ,
•
Formally define the problem of social spammer detection with sentiment information ;
•
•
•
Verify the sentiment differences between spammers and normal users with hypothesis testing , and model the sentiment information for spammer detection ; Present a novel framework to incorporate sentiment information , combined with content and network information , for social spammer detection ; and Empirically evaluate the proposed method on realworld Twitter datasets and elaborate the effects of sentiment information on our studied problem .
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows . In Section II , we define the problem of social spammer detection with sentiment information . In Section III , we conduct an exploratory study to examine the potential impacts of sentiment information for the problem . In Section IV , we propose a novel social spammer detection framework that considers sentiment , content and network information . In Section V , we conduct experiments on Twitter datasets to evaluate the proposed framework . In Section VI , we review related work . In Section VII , we conclude and present the future work .
II . PROBLEM STATEMENT
One distinct feature of social media data is that it provides abundant contextual information other than social networks . The problem we studied is different from traditional spammer detection in social networks since the latter typically only considers either the content or network information [ 12 ] , [ 13 ] . In this section , we first present the notation used in this paper and then formally define the problem of social spammer detection with sentiment information . i=1
Notation : lowercase bold letters ( eg , a ) denote column vectors , upper case letters ( eg , A ) denote matrices , and lowercase letters ( eg , a ) denote scalars . A(i , j ) denotes the entry at the ith row and jth column of a matrix A . Let A denote the Euclidean norm , and AF the Frobenius norm of the matrix A . Specifically , AF = j=1 A(i , j)2 . Let AT and T r(A ) denote the transpose and trace of A , respectively . m n
Let S = [ X,G , Y ] be a target user set with content information X , social network information G and identity label matrix Y . We use user word matrix X ∈ Rn×m to denote content information , ie , posts written by the users , where n is the number of users , and m is the number of textual features . We use G = ( V , E ) to denote the social network , where nodes v ∈ V represent social media users , and each directed edge between two nodes [ u , v ] ∈ E represents a following relation from u to v . We do not have self links in the graph , ie , u = v . Y ∈ Rn×c denotes the identity label matrix , where c is the number of possible identity labels . In this paper , we focus on the binary classification problem , ie , c = 2 and the users will be classified as spammers or normal users . It is practical to extend this setting to a multi class classification task .
Given another corpus of posts C ∈ Rt×m with sentiment labels , where t is the number of posts , and m is the number of textual features . We use s ∈ [ −1 , 1]t to represent the sentiment polarity labels of the corresponding social media posts . For example , s(i ) = 1 represents that sentiment of the ith post in the corpus is positive , and s(i ) = −1 negative .
We now formally define the problem as follows :
STATISTICS OF THE DATASETS
TABLE I . Statistics # of Spammers # of Normal Users # of Unigrams
TUSH 16,841 13,697 31,004
TSS 4,005 15,832 18,055
Given a set of social media users S with content information X , social network information G , and identity label information Y of part of the users in the set ( ie , training data ) , we can also learn the sentiment information from another set of labeled posts [ C , s ] , our goal is to learn a model to automatically assign identity labels for unknown users ( ie , test data ) as spammers or normal users .
III . DATA AND EXPLORATORY STUDY
A major motivation of this study is to investigate if sentiment information is useful for social spammer detection . Before proceeding further , we first introduce real world datasets used in this work and examine whether sentiment information has any potential impact for social spammer detection .
A . Datasets
Three Twitter datasets are used in our study . The first two contain labels for social spammer detection , ie , TAMU Social Honeypots and Twitter Suspended Spammers , and the third one Stanford Twitter Sentiment has sentiment labels . Now we introduce the three datasets in detail .
TAMU Social Honeypots Dataset
( TUSH):2 Lee et al . [ 14 ] created a collection of 41,499 Twitter users with identity labels as spammers and normal users . The dataset was collected from December 30 , 2009 to August 2 , 2010 on Twitter . It consists of users , their number of followers and posted tweets . We further refined the dataset according to users’ social relation information , which is a complete follower graph3 crawled by Kwak et al . [ 15 ] during July 2009 . According to the social network , we filter the users who post less than two tweets or have less than two friends in the dataset . Finally , it leaves a corpus of 30,538 users that consists of 16,841 spammers and 13,697 normal users . This dataset has balanced number of spammers and normal users .
Twitter Suspended Spammers Dataset ( TSS ) : We used a data construction process , which is similar to [ 16 ] , [ 17 ] , to build this dataset . We first crawled a Twitter dataset from August 5 , 2013 to October 11 , 2013 using the Twitter Search API.4 We examined all of the crawled users at the end of the crawling process . The users that were suspended by Twitter during this period are considered as the gold standard [ 17 ] of spammers in the experiment . We then randomly sampled normal users which have social relations with the spammers . To consider effects brought by different class distribution , according to the literature of social spammer detection [ 6 ] , we made the two classes in TSS imbalanced , ie , the number of normal users we sampled is much greater than that of spammers in the dataset . In addition , users that post less than
2http://infolabtamuedu/data/ 3http://ankaistackr/traces/WWW2010html/ 4http://devtwittercom/docs/api/
TABLE II .
T TEST RESULTS ( P VALUES ) TO VERIFY
MICROEXPRESSIONS
Microexpressions
<0.938e 9 <1.011e 15
TUSH
TSS
We compute the sentiment score of each user in the two datasets . The sentiment scores are normalized in the range of [ −1 , 1 ] . We plot the polarity score distributions of spammers and normal users on the TUSH dataset in Figure 1 . In the figure , x axis represents the sentiment score and y axis the density of users who have the exact sentiment score . Red curve denotes the sentiment score distribution of normal users and blue dotted curve the distribution of spammers . From the figure , we can observe two normal like distributions for spammers and normal users . The two distributions center with different mean values and show clearly different patterns . It suggests that the sentiment patterns of normal users and spammers are different . Similar results have been observed on the TSS dataset ; we omit the results owing to lack of space .
C . Verifying Sentiment Correlation
The preliminary results in Section III B show that the sentiment distributions of spammers and normal users are different . We now further verify whether this observation is potential useful for our studied problem .
The psychological finding of microexpression suggests that sentiments of spammers are different from normal users . The assumption is that the sentiments of two users with the same identity , ie , both are spammers or normal users , have higher probability to be consistent than those of two random users . We use hypothesis testing to validate whether this assumption of sentiment consistency holds in the two Twitter datasets .
We first define the sentiment difference score d(i , j ) be tween two users as d(i , j ) = ||s(i ) − s(j)||2 ,
( 2 ) where s(i ) and s(j ) represent sentiment scores of the two users . The sentiment scores are computed by the method we introduced in Section III B .
Then , two vectors sc and sr with an equal number of elements are constructed . Each element of the first vector sc is calculated by Eq ( 2 ) , where s(i ) and s(j ) are users with the same identity . Each element of the second vector represents the sentient difference score between s(i ) and s(r ) , which denotes the sentiment score of another randomly selected user . We form a two sample one tail t test to validate the assumption . We test whether there is sufficient evidence to support the hypothesis that sentiment difference of the first group is greater or equal than that of the second . The null hypothesis and alternative hypothesis are formulated as follows :
H0 : µc − µr ≥ 0 H1 : µc − µr < 0
( 3 ) where µc and µr represent the sample means of sentiment difference scores in the two groups , respectively .
The t test results , p values , are summarized in Table II . The results suggest that there is strong statistical evidence , with significance level α = 0.01 , to reject the null hypothesis on
Fig 1 . Sentiment Score Distribution two tweets or have less than two friends in the whole dataset are removed . Finally , it leaves a corpus of 19,837 users that consists of 4,005 spammers and 15,832 normal users .
A standard procedure is used for data preprocessing on both datasets . All of the non English tweets are filtered out from the datasets . We remove stop words and perform stemming for all the tweets . The unigram model is employed to construct the feature space , tf idf is used as the feature weight . The statistics of the datasets are presented in Table I .
Stanford Twitter Sentiment ( SENT)5 : Go et al . [ 18 ] created a collection of 40,216 tweets with polarity sentiment labels to train a sentiment classifier . The tweets in the dataset are crawled between April 6 , 2009 and June 25 , 2009 . All the tweets and corresponding sentiment labels in the dataset are used to learn a model for sentiment analysis .
B . Sentiment Distribution
We employ a standard method to compute the sentiment score of each user . In particular , a supervised sentiment analysis model is learned based on the labeled dataset SENT , and we then apply the learned model to compute the sentiment score of users in the two datasets TUSH and TSS .
Pang and Lee [ 19 ] conducted experiments to study the effectiveness of different methods on sentiment analysis . It shows that machine learning techniques can achieve good performance on benchmark datasets . Following widely used sentiment analysis methods introduced in [ 19 ] , [ 20 ] , [ 21 ] , a linear regression [ 22 ] is employed to fit the learned model to sentiment labels s . The linear regression aims to learn a model by solving the following optimization problem :
Cw − s2 , min w
( 1 ) where C represents the content matrix of SENT dataset , w represents the learned coefficients of the features , and s denotes the sentiment labels of the posts in C . This formulation is a traditional supervised learning method , and it has a closedform solution : w = ( CT C)−1CT s . By solving Eq ( 1 ) , the sentiment score of a user u can be computed by X(u)w .
5http://wwwstanfordedu/∼alecmgo/cs224n/
−1−08−06−04−020020406081Sentiment ScoreDensity of Users Normal UsersSpammers distinct characteristics of social media data make traditional text analytics less applicable for our task .
To tackle the problems , we propose to model the content information from topic level instead of learning word level knowledge . Motivated by previous work on topic modeling [ 24 ] , a user ’s posts usually focus on a few topics , resulting in X very sparse and low rank . The proposed method is built on a non negative matrix factorization model ( NMF ) [ 25 ] . NMF is to seek a more compact but accurate low rank representation of the users by solving the following optimization problem :
X − UVT2 F , min U,V≥0
( 4 ) where X is the content matrix , U ∈ Rn×r with r m is an encoding matrix that indicates a low rank user representation in a topic space and V ∈ Rm×r is a mixing matrix . Both U and V are non negative factor matrices to be learned .
The matrix factorization [ 26 ] , [ 27 ] based content modeling has several nice properties : ( 1 ) this model has a nice probabilistic interpretation with Gaussian noise ; ( 2 ) many existing optimization methods can be used to provide a well worked optimal solution ; ( 3 ) it can be scaled to a large number of users , which is a common setting in social media ; ( 4 ) this formulation is flexible and allows us to introduce prior knowledge such as sentiment information and social network information introduced in next subsections .
B . Modeling Sentiment Information fl1
0
The observation introduced in Section III suggests that the sentiments of two users with the same identity label have higher probability to be consistent . Based on this observation , we propose to model the sentiment information with graph Laplacian [ 28 ] . We construct an undirected graph GS based on sentiment information of the users . In the graph , each node represents a user and each edge represents the sentiment correlation between two users . The adjacency matrix A ∈ Rn×n of the constructed graph GS is formulated as the following :
A(i , j ) = if ui ∈ N ( uj ) or uj ∈ N ( ui ) otherwise .
( 5 ) where ui and uj are nodes , and N ( ui ) represents the k nearest neighbor of the user ui in terms of sentiment information . As we discussed in Section III B , a model w can be learned by minimizing the objective function in Eq ( 1 ) , and sentiment score of a user u can be computed as X(u)w . It is noted that our study is not confined to any specific sentiment analysis tools . It is practical to employ other sentiment analysis methods , eg , lexicon based method [ 29 ] , to compute the sentiment score of each user . Since we aim to model the mutual sentiment correlation between two users , the adjacency matrix in the formulation is symmetric .
The key idea of utilizing graph Laplacian to model the sentiment information is that if two nodes are close in the graph , ie , their sentiment scores are close to each other , the representations of the two users should be similar . It can be formulated as minimizing the following loss function :
( Ui − Uj)2A(i , j ) ,
( 6 ) n n i=1 j=1
RS =
1 2
Fig 2 .
Illustration of the Spammer Detection Framework the two datasets . In other words , we validate the assumption in the two datasets . This exploratory study paves the way for our next step : how to explicitly model and utilize the sentiment information for social spammer detection .
IV . SDS : SOCIAL SPAMMER DETECTION WITH
SENTIMENT INFORMATION
In this section , we introduce the proposed framework that incorporates sentiment , content and social network information for social spammer detection in detail .
We plot the work flow of our proposed framework in Figure 2 . From the figure , we can see that the whole framework consists of three components . The left part represents modeling of content information . There are two constraints on the learned factor matrix U which is derived from content information . As shown in the upper right part of the figure , the first constraint is from sentiment information L , which is learned from an independent sentiment related source C . As shown in the lower right part of the figure , the second constraint is learned from social network information G . In this section , we first discuss how to model content information , and then introduce the modeling of sentiment and network information to detect social spammers . Finally , we present the framework that considers the three types of information as well as its computational algorithm for social spammer detection .
A . Modeling Content Information
Social media provides abundant content information . Unlike spam detection in platforms such as email and SMS , content analysis has been little studied for social spammer detection . To make use of content information , a straightforward way is to learn a supervised model based on labeled data , and apply the learned model for spammer detection . However , this method yields two problems due to the unstructured and noisy content text representation models , like n gram model , often lead to a highdimensional feature space because of the large size of data and vocabulary . Second , in addition to the short form of texts , abbreviations and acronyms are widely used in social media , thus making the data representation very sparse [ 23 ] . These information in social media . First ,
= Encoding Matrix Sentiment Extraction and Modeling X C G U VT s L Social Network Information Content Information where n is the number of users in the graph , Ui denotes representation of the ith user , and Uj the jth user . This loss function will incur a penalty if two users have different representations when they are close to each other in the constructed graph .
Let D ∈ Rn×n denote a diagonal matrix , and its diagonal element is the degree of a user in the adjacency matrix A , ie ,
It is easy to verify that the formulation in Eq ( 6 ) can be j=1 A(i , j ) .
D(i , i ) =n n n rewritten as : RS = i=1
= n j=1
UiD(i , i)UT
UiA(i , j)UT
UiA(i , j)UT j n i − n i − n n i=1 j=1
UiA(i , j)UT j i=1
T r(UT ( D − A)U ) T r(UTLU ) .
= = i=1 j=1
( 7 )
Besides sentiment information , abundant social network information is available in social media for social spammer detection . Next , we introduce how to model the social network information for our studied problem .
C . Modeling Social Network Information
Many efforts have been devoted to model social network information in various applications such as recommender systems [ 26 ] and trust prediction [ 27 ] . Existing methods often assume that representations of two nodes are close when they are connected with each other in the network [ 17 ] , [ 28 ] . This assumption does not hold in many social media services . For example , some social media services such as microblogging allow directed following relations between users without mutual consent . In addition , as we discussed , spammers can easily follow a large number of normal users within a short time . The characteristics of the social media data make existing methods not suitable to our task .
We propose to use a variant of directed graph Laplacian to model network information . Given the social network information G and the identity labels Y , four kinds of following relations can be extracted : [ spammer , spammer ] , [ normal , spammer ] , [ normal , normal ] , and [ spammer , normal ] . Since the fourth relation [ spammer , normal ] can be easily faked by spammers , we only make use of the first three relations in the proposed framework . Note that this is a general setting in different social networks . In undirected social networks , eg , Facebook , it is easy to convert the undirected graph into a direct setting . Now we introduce how to represent and model the social network information .
The adjacency matrix G ∈ Rn×n is used to represent the refined directed social network G , and it is defined as
G(i , j ) = if [ ui , uj ] is among the first three relations otherwise
( 8 ) where ui and uj represent the ith and jth users , and [ ui , uj ] is a directed edge in the graph G . fl1
0 i = i = tionary distribution π , which satisfies π(j ) =
In the social network , in degree of the node ui is defined [ uj ,ui ] G(j , i ) , and out degree of the node u is as din [ ui,uj ] G(i , j ) . Let P be the transition defined as dout probability matrix of random walk in a given graph with [ 30 ] . The random walk has a staP(i , j ) = G(i , j)/dout ui∈V π(i ) = 1 and [ ui,uj ] π(i)P(i , j ) [ 30 ] , [ 31 ] , where π(i ) > 0 for i all ui ∈ V .
To model the social network information , the basic idea is to make the latent representations of two users as close as possible if there exists a following relation between them . It can be mathematically formulated as minimizing
RN =
=
=
π(i)P(i , j)Ui − Uj2
[ ui,uj ]∈E
1 2 T r(UT ( Π − ΠP + PT Π T r(UTU ) ,
2
)U )
( 9 ) where Ui denotes the low rank representation of user ui , Uj the low rank representation of user uj , = Π − ΠP+PT Π is the Laplacian matrix [ 31 ] , and Π denotes a diagonal matrix with Π(i , i ) = π(i ) . It is straightforward to verify that the Laplacian matrix has the properties introduced in Lemma ( 1 ) and Remark ( 1 ) . The induction of Eq ( 9 ) is straightforward and can be also found in previous work [ 31 ] , [ 30 ] . This loss function will incur a penalty if two users have different lowrank representations when they have a directed relation .
2
We have introduced the modeling of content , sentiment and social network information above . Now we propose to consider all of the three types of information in a general framework .
D . Using Sentiment Analysis for Social Spammer Detection
As illustrated in Figure 2 , we employ sentiment and network information to formulate two constraints on the matrix factorization model which is derived from content information . By considering all of the three types of information , the task of social spammer detection with sentiment information can be formulated as the following optimization problem : F + αT r(UTLU )
O = X − UVT2 min U,V≥0 + βT r(UTU ) + λ(U2
F + V2 F ) ,
( 10 ) where the first term is to consider content information , the second term is to introduce sentiment information , the third term is to introduce social network information , and the fourth term is for regularization to avoid overfitting . The three positive parameters α , β and λ are to control the effects of each part to the learned model .
The objective function defined in Eq ( 10 ) is not convex with respect to the two variables U and V together . There is no closed form solution for the problem . Motivated by the multiplicative and alternating updating rules discussed in [ 32 ] , we now introduce an alternative algorithm to find optimal solutions for the two variables U and V . The key idea is to optimize the objective with respect to one variable , while fixing the other . The algorithm will keep updating the variables until convergence . Now we introduce the algorithm in detail .
1 ) Computation of U : Optimizing the objective function in Eq ( 10 ) with respect to U is equivalent to solving F + αT r(UTLU ) + βT r(UTU ) + λU2 F ,
OU = X − UVT2 min U≥0
( 11 )
Let ΛU be the Lagrange multiplier for constraint U ≥ 0 , the Lagrange function L(U ) is defined as follows :
L(U ) = X − UVT2
F + αT r(UTLU )
+ βT r(UTU ) + λU2
F − T r(ΛU UT ) , By setting the derivative ∇UL(U ) = 0 , we get ΛU = −2XV + 2UVT V + 2αLU + 2βU + 2λU . ( 13 )
( 12 )
The Karush Kuhn Tucker complementary condition [ 33 ] for the nonnegativity constraint of U gives
ΛU ( i , j)U(i , j ) = 0 ;
( 14 ) thus , we obtain [ −XV + UVT V + αLU + βU + λU](i , j)U(i , j ) = 0 . ( 15 ) Since the Laplacian matrices L and may take any signs , we decompose it as L = L+ − L− and = + − − . Similar to [ 26 ] , it leads to the updating rule of U ,
[ XV + αL−U + β−U](i , j )
U(i , j ) ← U(i , j )
[ UVT V + αL+U + β+U + λU](i , j ) ( 16 ) 2 ) Computation of V : Optimizing the objective function in Eq ( 10 ) with respect to V is equivalent to solving min V≥0
OV = X − UVT2
F + λV2 F ,
( 17 ) Let ΛV be the Lagrange multiplier for constraint V ≥ 0 , the Lagrange function L(V ) is defined as follows : L(V ) = X − UVT2 F − T r(ΛV VT ) , By setting the derivative ∇VL(V ) = 0 , we get ΛV = −2XT U + 2VUT U + 2λV .
F + λV2
The Karush Kuhn Tucker complementary condition [ 33 ] for the nonnegativity constraint of U gives
( 18 )
( 19 )
( 20 )
( 21 )
ΛV ( i , j)V(i , j ) = 0 ; thus , we obtain
[ −XT U + VUT U + λV](i , j)V(i , j ) = 0 .
Similar to [ 26 ] , it leads to the updating rule of V ,
V(i , j ) ← V(i , j )
[ XT U](i , j )
[ VUT U + λV](i , j )
.
( 22 )
The correctness and convergence of the updating rules can be proven with the standard auxiliary function approach introduced in [ 26 ] , [ 32 ] . Once obtaining the low rank user representation U , a supervised model can be trained based on
Algorithm 1 : Social Spammer Detection with Sentiment Information Input : {X , Y , G , α , β , λ , I} Output : U , V , W 1 : Construct matrices L and in Eq ( 7 ) and ( 9 ) 2 : Initialize U , V ≥ 0 3 : while Not convergent and iter ≤ I do
4 :
Update U(i , j ) ← U(i , j ) Update
[ UVT V+αL+U+β+U+λU](i,j )
[ XV+αL−U+β−U](i,j )
5 :
[ XT U](i,j )
[ VUT U+λV](i,j )
V(i , j ) ← V(i , j ) iter = iter + 1
6 : 7 : end while 8 : W = ( UT U)−1UT Y the new latent topic space and label matrix Y . We employ the widely used Least Squares [ 34 ] , which has a closedform solution : W = ( UT U)−1UT Y . We present the detailed algorithm of SDS in Algorithm 1 .
In the algorithm , we conduct initialization for Laplacian matrices , encoding matrix U and mixing matrix V from line 1 to 2 . I is the number of maximum iterations . The two matrices U and V are updated with the updating rules until convergence or reaching the number of maximum iterations . The classifier W for social spammer detection is trained in line 8 .
.
V . EXPERIMENTS
In this section , we conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed framework SDS . Through the experiments , we aim to answer the following two questions ,
1 )
How effective is the proposed framework compared with other social spammer detection methods ?
2 ) What are the effects of the sentiment information for social spammer detection performance ?
We begin by introducing the experimental setup and then compare the performance of different social spammer detection methods . Finally , we study the effects of sentiment information and the parameters on the proposed framework .
A . Experimental Setup
We follow standard experiment settings used in [ 16 ] , [ 17 ] to evaluate the performance of spammer detection methods . We apply different social spammer detection methods on social media datasets . To avoid bias brought by different class distributions , the two Twitter datasets introduced in Section III A , TUSH and TSS , are used in the experiments . Similar to the literature , precision , recall , and F1 measure are used as the performance metrics .
Three positive parameters are involved in the experiments , including α , β and λ in Eq ( 10 ) . α is to control the contribution of sentiment information , β is to control the contribution of social network information , and λ is the regularization parameter to prevent overfitting . As a common practice , all the parameters can be tuned via cross validation with a separate
TABLE III .
SOCIAL SPAMMER DETECTION RESULTS ON TUSH DATASET
Training Data One ( 50 % )
Training Data Two ( 100 % )
Precision Recall 0.924 0.939 0.939 0.955 0.965
0.893 0.926 0.935 0.951 0.969
F1 measure ( gain )
0.908 ( NA ) 0.932 ( +2.67 % ) 0.937 ( +3.12 % ) 0.953 ( +4.93 % ) 0.967 ( +6.47 % )
Precision Recall 0.942 0.949 0.945 0.961 0.979
0.919 0.931 0.948 0.959 0.975
F1 measure ( gain )
0.930 ( NA ) 0.940 ( +1.03 % ) 0.946 ( +1.74 % ) 0.960 ( +3.17 % ) 0.977 ( +5.01 % )
TABLE IV .
SOCIAL SPAMMER DETECTION RESULTS ON TSS DATASET
Training Data One ( 50 % )
Training Data Two ( 100 % )
Precision Recall 0.860 0.882 0.895 0.900 0.909
0.801 0.821 0.834 0.848 0.869
F1 measure ( gain )
0.829 ( NA ) 0.850 ( +2.53 % ) 0.863 ( +4.10 % ) 0.873 ( +5.28 % ) 0.889 ( +7.12 % )
Precision Recall 0.866 0.902 0.909 0.916 0.930
0.809 0.851 0.860 0.881 0.898
F1 measure ( gain )
0.837 ( NA ) 0.876 ( +4.69 % ) 0.884 ( +5.65 % ) 0.898 ( +7.37 % ) 0.914 ( +9.23 % )
Content Net Content Lap
SMFSR SparseSD
SDS
Content Net Content Lap
SMFSR SparseSD
SDS validation dataset . In the experiments , we empirically set α = 0.1 , β = 0.1 and λ = 0.1 for general experiment purposes . We empirically set k = 20 for k nearest neighbor defined in Eq ( 5 ) . The effects of the parameters on the learning model will be further discussed in Section V D .
B . Performance Evaluation
•
•
•
We now compare the proposed framework with other baseline methods , accordingly answer the first question asked above . Four baseline methods are included in the experiments : the content matrix X and adjacency Content Net : matrix G of the social network are combined together for user representation . The basic idea here is to consider each friend of a user as a social dimension [ 35 ] for representation . We further use the widely used classifier Least Squares [ 22 ] to perform social spammer detection . Content Lap : social network information is modeled and incorporated into a Least Squares formulation with a directed Laplacian regularization [ 30 ] . SMFSR : a multi label informed latent semantic indexing [ 17 ] , [ 36 ] is used to model the content information , and undirected graph Laplacian [ 28 ] is used to incorporate the social network information . In the experiment , we convert the directed graph to an undirected one with G = max(G , GT ) . SparseSD : a sparse learning framework [ 37 ] is used to model the content information , and a directed graph Laplacian [ 30 ] is used to incorporate the network information . In the experiment , the directed graph G is used to model social network information . SDS : our proposed framework .
• Experimental results of the methods on the two Twitter datasets , THSH and TSS , are respectively reported in Table III and IV . In the experiment , we use five fold cross validation the methods . To avoid bias brought by the sizes for all of the training data , we conduct two sets of experiments with different numbers of training samples . In each round
• of the cross validation , “ Training Data One ( 50 % ) ” means that we randomly chose 50 % of the 80 % , thus using 40 % of the whole dataset for training . “ Training Data One ( 100 % ) ” represents that we use all the 80 % data for training . Also , “ gain ” represents the percentage improvement of the methods in comparison with the first baseline method Content Net . In the experiment , each result denotes an average of 10 test runs . By comparing the spammer detection performance of different methods , we draw the following observations :
( 1 ) From the results in the tables , we can observe that our proposed method SDS consistently outperforms other baseline methods on both datasets with different sizes of training data . Our method achieves better results than the state of the art method SMFSR and SparseSD on both datasets . We apply two sample one tail t tests to compare SDS to the four baseline methods . The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed model performs significantly better ( with significance level α = 0.01 ) than the four methods .
( 2 ) The performance of SDS is better than the four baselines , which are based on different strategies of utilizing content and network information . This demonstrates that the integration of sentiment information positively helps improve social spammer detection performance .
( 3 ) Among the four baseline methods , SMFSR and SparseSD achieve better results than the first two methods Content Net and Content Lap . Dimensionality reduction and sparse learning methods show good performance in our studied problem . This indicates that the excellent modeling of content information significantly helps the performance of social spammer detection .
( 4 ) The first method Content Net has the worst performance among all of the four baseline methods . This shows that the proper use of social network information is important in social spammer detection . Simple combination of network information does not work well .
With the help of sentiment information , our proposed framework outperforms the methods incorporating content and network information . Next , we further investigate the effects of sentiment information on the social spammer detection task .
Fig 3 . Spammer Detection Results on TUSH Dataset
Fig 4 . Spammer Detection Results on TSS Dataset
C . Effects of Sentiment Information
In this subsection , we compare the effectiveness of different types of information to better understand the role of sentiment information in social spammer detection , and accordingly answer the second question asked in the beginning of this section . In particular , we compare the proposed method with the following :
•
•
•
•
•
•
Content : the Least Squares is employed to train a classifier based on only content matrix X . Network : each friend of a user is considered as a social dimension [ 35 ] to represent the user . This is a widely used scheme in relational learning and community detection for user representation . We then train a classifier based on the user friend representation for social spammer detection .
Sentiment : we first compute the sentiment score of each user and then compare its distance with the mean of spammer group and normal user group . The user is classified into the group with shorter distance .
Content Lap : Section V B . the baseline is the same as that in
Content Sentiment : sentiment information we modeled in Section IV B is combined with content information for social spammer detection .
SDS : our proposed method to exploit sentiment information for social spammer detection .
The experimental results of the methods on the two datasets are respectively plotted in Figure 3 and 4 . In the figures , the first five bars represent the performance of the baselines with different combinations of the information , respectively . The last bar represents our proposed method SDS . From the figures , we can draw the following observations :
( 2 ) Among all of the five baseline methods , Content Lap and Content Sentiment achieve better performance than the first three methods . The results indicate that the integration of either network information or sentiment information into a content based method improves the purely content based social spammer detection performance . Comparing with traditional spammer detection methods , the use of contextual information positively helps social spammer detection performance .
( 3 ) Among the first three methods , Content achieves best performance . This result has been little reported in existing work . It suggests that among the three types of information , content information is the most effective one for social spammer detection . This observation is consistent with those obtained in other platforms , such as email spam detection and Web spam detection . We can observe that Sentiment achieves the worst performance , which indicates that we cannot only rely one sentiment information for social spammer detection . Although we observe that the sentiment differences do exist between spammers and normal users , sentiment information is not good enough to be an independent information source to detect spammers .
In summary , the use of sentiment information can help improve the performance of social spammer detection , although it does not work well as an independent information source . The superior performance of the proposed method SDS validates its excellent use of the three types of information .
D . Parameter Analysis
As discussed in Section V A , the effects of two important parameters , ie , α and β , need to be further explored . α is to control the contribution of sentiment information , and β is to control the contribution of social network information to the model . To better understand the effects brought by the two parameters , we now conduct experiments to compare the social spammer detection performance of the proposed SDS on the Twitter datasets with different parameter settings .
( 1 ) With the integration of all the three different types of information in a unified way , the proposed framework SDS consistently achieves better performance than those with only content and network information . It demonstrates that our proposed method successfully makes use of useful information sources to perform effective social spammer detection .
The spammer detection results of SDS with different parameter settings on the TSS dataset is plotted in Figure 5 . From the figure , we can observe that SDS achieves relatively good performance when α < 1 and β < 1 . When α > 1 and β > 1 , as the parameters grow , the performance of SDS declines . The results demonstrate that the proposed framework can achieve a
MetricsPerformance PrecisionRecallF1−measure05060708091ContentNetworkSentimentCont_LapCont_SentSDSMetricsPerformance PrecisionRecallF1−measure05060708091ContentNetworkSentimentContent_LapContent_SentSDS spammers on Renren can have their friend requests accepted by many normal users and thus well blend into the Renren social graph . A similar result targeting Facebook is reported in [ 40 ] , where the term “ social bots ” instead of spammers is used . In contrast to Facebook like OSNs , microblogging systems feature unidirectional user bindings because anyone can follow anyone else without prior consent from the followee . Ghosh et al . [ 41 ] show that spammers can successfully acquire a number of normal followers , especially those referred to as social capitalists who tend to increase their social capital by following back anyone following them . Some methods [ 17 ] have also proposed to collectively use content and social network information in social spammer detection .
( 3 ) Sentiment Analysis in Social Media . Sentiment analysis on product reviews has been a hot topic for quite a few years [ 20 ] . Recently , the opinion rich resources in social media attracted attention from disciplines . As an effective tool to understand opinions of the public , sentiment analysis is widely applied in various social media applications [ 44 ] , including poll rating prediction [ 45 ] , event prediction [ 46 ] , etc . O’Connor et al . [ 45 ] found strong correlation between the aggregated sentiment and the manually collected poll ratings . Bollen et al . [ 47 ] proposed to measure the dynamic sentiments on Twitter , and compared the correlation between public sentiments and major events , including the stock market , crude oil prices , elections and Thanksgiving . Motivated by the successful applications of sentiment analysis and the existing psychological theories , we investigate the use of sentiment information for social spammer detection in this paper .
( 4 ) Opinion Spam Detection .
It is popular for people to read opinions for various purposes , such as buying a product or visiting a restaurant . Positive opinions can lead to significant financial gains and/or fames for organizations and individuals . This gives good incentives for opinion spam [ 48 ] . Opinion spam detection is an important research topic in sentiment analysis and opinion mining [ 20 ] . The objective of this task is to detect spam activities in comments about news articles , blogs , or reviews about products or movies . Our studied problem is different from opinion spam detection . First , we aim to examine spam users in stead of spam review texts , which are often assumed to be independent and identically distributed ( iid ) Second , we study a general social spammer detection problem , while opinion spams are always topic oriented .
VII . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Social spamming has become a serious problem in almost all kinds of social media services . The distinct characteristics of social media services present new challenges for social spammer detection . Motivated by psychological findings , in this paper , we propose to make use of sentiment information to help social spammer detection . In particular , we first conduct exploratory study on two Twitter datasets to examine the sentiment differences between spammers and normal users . Our experiment results show that the sentiments posed by spammers and normal users are significantly different . The sentiment information are then modeled with a graph Laplacian and incorporated into an optimization formulation . The proposed method considers sentiment , content and network information in a unified way for social spammer detection . Extensive experiments are conducted . The experimental results
Fig 5 . ( β ) to the Proposed Framework
Impact of Sentiment Information ( α ) and Social Network Information relatively good performance when choosing parameter settings in a reasonable range . The performance of SDS is not quite sensitive to the parameters . In practice , setting α and β in [ 0.01 , 1 ] achieves good performance in both datasets . Similar results can be observed on the TUSH dataset ; we omit the results owing to lack of space .
VI . RELATED WORK
In this paper , we investigate a novel problem that leverages sentiment information for spammer detection in social media . There are several research areas that are related to our work . ( 1 ) Spammer Detecion . Spammer detection on various platforms , eg , email [ 38 ] and the Web [ 39 ] , have been studied for years . The spams are designed to corrupt the user experience by spreading ads or driving traffic to particular web sites [ 39 ] . A popular and well developed approach for antispam applications is learning based filtering . The basic idea is that we extract effective features from the labeled data and build a classifier . We then classify new users / messages as either spam or ham according to their content information .
( 2 ) Spammer Detection in Social Media . There are significant efforts to detect and analyze social spammers in Facebook [ 40 ] , Twitter [ 41 ] , [ 42 ] , Renren [ 16 ] , etc . Following spammer detection in traditional platforms , some work [ 6 ] has been done to study tweet content and user behavior for spammer detection in social media . By understanding spammer activities in social networks , features are extracted to perform effective spammer detection . However , the behaviors of the spammers in social media evolve too fast to avoid being detected by a traditional systems that use extensive offline feature building [ 43 ] .
Another way for social spammer detection is to utilize the social network information [ 12 ] . This method is based on the assumption that spammers cannot establish an arbitrarily large number of social trust relations with normal users . This assumption might not hold in many social networks . Yang et al . [ 16 ] studied the spammers in Renren , the largest OSN in China similar in features to Facebook . Their results reveal that
1−e3 001011101001−e3 0010111010005506065070750808509095Sentiment − αNetwork − βSpammer Detection Results ( F1−measure ) demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework as well as the roles of different types of information in social spammer detection . information ,
There are many potential future directions based on this work . It is interesting to investigate the contributions of other contextual like social activities and linguistic styles , for spammer detection in social media . Also , understanding and analyzing social spammers is also a promising direction . For example , spammers might share similar geographical or temporal patterns . We can thus develop more efficient algorithm to tackle the cold start problem in spammer detection by utilizing these important patterns .
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This material is based upon work supported by , or in part by , the US Army Research Office ( ARO ) under contract/grant number 025071 , the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) under grant number IIS 1217466 , and the Office of Naval Research ( ONR ) under grant number N000141010091 .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] S . Webb , J . Caverlee , and C . Pu , “ Social honeypots : Making friends with a spammer near you , ” in Proceedings of CEAS , 2008 .
[ 2 ] L . Bilge , T . Strufe , D . Balzarotti , and E . Kirda , “ All your contacts are belong to us : automated identity theft attacks on social networks , ” in Proceedings of WWW , 2009 .
[ 3 ] C . Grier , K . Thomas , V . Paxson , and M . Zhang , “ @ spam : the underground on 140 characters or less , ” in Proceedings of CCS , 2010 . J . Ratkiewicz , M . Conover , M . Meiss , B . Gonc¸alves , A . Flammini , and F . Menczer , “ Detecting and tracking political abuse in social media , ” in ICWSM , 2011 . J . Ratkiewicz , M . Conover , M . Meiss , B . Gonc¸alves , S . Patil , A . Flammini , and F . Menczer , “ Truthy : mapping the spread of astroturf in microblog streams , ” in WWW , 2011 .
[ 4 ]
[ 5 ]
[ 6 ] K . Lee , J . Caverlee , and S . Webb , “ Uncovering social spammers : social honeypots + machine learning , ” in Proceedings of SIGIR , 2010 . J . Weng , E . Lim , J . Jiang , and Q . He , “ Twitterrank : finding topicsensitive influential twitterers , ” in Proceedings of WSDM , 2010 .
[ 7 ]
[ 8 ] E . A . Haggard and K . S . Isaacs , “ Micro momentary facial expressions as indicators of ego mechanisms in psychotherapy . ” 1966 .
[ 9 ] P . Ekman , Telling lies : Clues to deceit in the marketplace , politics , and marriage . WW Norton & Company , 2009 .
[ 10 ] P . Ekman and W . V . Friesen , Unmasking the face : A guide to recognizing emotions from facial clues .
Ishk , 2003 .
[ 11 ] D . Matsumoto , H . S . Hwang , L . Skinner , and M . Frank , “ Evaluating truthfulness and detecting deception , ” FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin , June , pp . 1–11 , 2011 .
[ 12 ] P . Boykin and V . Roychowdhury , “ Leveraging social networks to fight spam , ” Computer , vol . 38 , no . 4 , pp . 61–68 , 2005 .
[ 13 ] X . Hu , J . Tang , and H . Liu , “ Leveraging knowledge across media for spammer detection in microblogging , ” in SIGIR , 2014 .
[ 14 ] K . Lee , B . D . Eoff , and J . Caverlee , “ Seven months with the devils : A long term study of content polluters on twitter , ” in ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 15 ] H . Kwak , C . Lee , H . Park , and S . Moon , “ What is twitter , a social network or a news media ? ” in Proceedings of WWW , 2010 .
[ 16 ] Z . Yang , C . Wilson , X . Wang , T . Gao , B . Zhao , and Y . Dai , “ Uncovering social network sybils in the wild , ” in Proceedings of IMC , 2011 .
[ 17 ] Y . Zhu , X . Wang , E . Zhong , N . Liu , H . Li , and Q . Yang , “ Discovering spammers in social networks , ” in AAAI , 2012 .
[ 18 ] A . Go , R . Bhayani , and L . Huang , “ Twitter sentiment classification using distant supervision , ” Technical Report , Stanford , 2009 .
[ 19 ] B . Pang , L . Lee , and S . Vaithyanathan , “ Thumbs up ? : sentiment classification using machine learning techniques , ” in Proceedings of EMNLP , 2002 .
[ 20 ] B . Liu , “ Sentiment analysis and opinion mining , ” Synthesis Lectures on
Human Language Technologies , 2012 .
[ 21 ] X . Hu , L . Tang , J . Tang , and H . Liu , “ Exploiting social relations for sentiment analysis in microblogging , ” in WSDM , 2013 . J . Friedman , T . Hastie , and R . Tibshirani , “ The elements of statistical learning , ” 2008 .
[ 22 ]
[ 23 ] X . Hu , N . Sun , C . Zhang , and T S Chua , “ Exploiting internal and external semantics for the clustering of short texts using world knowledge , ” in CIKM , 2009 .
[ 24 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I . Jordan , “ Latent dirichlet allocation , ” the JMLR , vol . 3 , pp . 993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 25 ] D . D . Lee and H . S . Seung , “ Learning the parts of objects by non negative matrix factorization , ” Nature , pp . 788–791 , 1999 .
[ 26 ] Q . Gu , J . Zhou , and C . H . Ding , “ Collaborative filtering : Weighted nonnegative matrix factorization incorporating user and item graphs . ” in SDM , 2010 , pp . 199–210 . J . Tang , H . Gao , X . Hu , and H . Liu , “ Exploiting homophily effect for trust prediction , ” in Proceedings of WSDM , 2013 .
[ 27 ]
[ 28 ] F . Chung , Spectral graph theory . Amer Mathematical Society , 1997 , no . 92 .
[ 29 ] Y . Lu , M . Castellanos , U . Dayal , and C . Zhai , “ Automatic construction of a context aware sentiment lexicon : an optimization approach , ” in Proceedings of WWW , 2011 .
[ 30 ] D . Zhou , J . Huang , and B . Sch¨olkopf , “ Learning from labeled and unlabeled data on a directed graph , ” in Proceedings of ICML , 2005 .
[ 31 ] F . Chung , “ Laplacians and the cheeger inequality for directed graphs , ”
Annals of Combinatorics , vol . 9 , no . 1 , pp . 1–19 , 2005 .
[ 32 ] D . Seung and L . Lee , “ Algorithms for non negative matrix factoriza tion , ” NIPS , 2001 .
[ 33 ] S . Boyd and L . Vandenberghe , Convex optimization . university press , 2004 .
Cambridge
[ 34 ] C . Lawson and R . Hanson , Solving least squares problems .
1995 , vol . 15 .
SIAM ,
[ 35 ] L . Tang and H . Liu , “ Relational learning via latent social dimensions , ” in Proceedings of KDD , 2009 .
[ 36 ] K . Yu , S . Yu , and V . Tresp , “ Multi label informed latent semantic indexing , ” in Proceedings of SIGIR , 2005 . J . Liu , S . Ji , and J . Ye , “ Multi task feature learning via efficient l 2 , 1 norm minimization , ” in UAI , 2009 .
[ 37 ]
[ 38 ] E . Blanzieri and A . Bryl , “ A survey of learning based techniques of email spam filtering , ” Artificial Intelligence Review , vol . 29 , no . 1 , pp . 63–92 , 2008 .
[ 39 ] S . Webb , J . Caverlee , and C . Pu , “ Introducing the webb spam corpus : Using email spam to identify web spam automatically . ” in CEAS , 2006 . [ 40 ] Y . Boshmaf , I . Muslukhov , K . Beznosov , and M . Ripeanu , “ The socialbot network : when bots socialize for fame and money , ” in ACSAC , 2011 , pp . 93–102 .
[ 41 ] S . Ghosh , B . Viswanath , F . Kooti , N . Sharma , G . Korlam , F . Benevenuto , N . Ganguly , and K . Gummadi , “ Understanding and combating link farming in the twitter social network , ” in Proceedings of WWW , 2012 .
[ 42 ] X . Hu , J . Tang , Y . Zhang , and H . Liu , “ Social spammer detection in microblogging , ” in IJCAI , 2013 .
[ 43 ] X . Hu , J . Tang , and H . Liu , “ Online social spammer detection , ” in AAAI ,
2014 .
[ 44 ] X . Hu , J . Tang , H . Gao , and H . Liu , “ Unsupervised sentiment analysis with emotional signals , ” in WWW , 2013 .
[ 46 ]
[ 45 ] B . O Connor , R . Balasubramanyan , B . Routledge , and N . Smith , “ From tweets to polls : Linking text sentiment to public opinion time series , ” in Proceedings of ICWSM , 2010 . J . Bollen , H . Mao , and X . Zeng , “ Twitter mood predicts the stock market , ” Journal of Computational Science , 2011 . J . Bollen , A . Pepe , and H . Mao , “ Modeling public mood and emotion : Twitter sentiment and socio economic phenomena , ” CoRR , abs/0911.1583 , 2009 .
[ 47 ]
[ 48 ] N . Jindal and B . Liu , “ Opinion spam and analysis , ” in Proceedings of
WSDM , 2008 .
