Large Scale Analysis of Soccer Matches using
Spatiotemporal Tracking Data
Alina Bialkowski1,2 , Patrick Lucey1 , Peter Carr1 , Yisong Yue1,3 , Sridha Sridharan2 and Iain Matthews1
1Disney Research , Pittsburgh , USA , 2Queensland University of Technology , Australia , 3California Institute of Technology , USA
Email : abialkowski@connectquteduau , {patrick.lucey , peter.carr , iainm}@disneyresearch.com yyue@caltech.edu , ssridharan@quteduau
Abstract—Although the collection of player and ball tracking data is fast becoming the norm in professional sports , large scale mining of such spatiotemporal data has yet to surface . In this paper , given an entire season ’s worth of player and ball tracking data from a professional soccer league ( ≈400,000,000 data points ) , we present a method which can conduct both individual player and team analysis . Due to the dynamic , continuous and multiplayer nature of team sports like soccer , a major issue is aligning player positions over time . We present a “ role based ” representation that dynamically updates each player ’s relative role at each frame and demonstrate how this captures the shortterm context to enable both individual player and team analysis . We discover role directly from data by utilizing a minimum entropy data partitioning method and show how this can be used to accurately detect and visualize formations , as well as analyze individual player behavior .
I .
INTRODUCTION
Coinciding with the widespread deployment of tracking technologies , an enormous amount of trajectory data logging movements of people , vehicles , animals and weather patterns has emerged for various applications such as transportation [ 1 ] , military [ 2 ] , social [ 3 ] , scientific studies [ 4 ] and hurricane prediction [ 5 ] . Another interesting application which has seen a recent deluge of spatiotemporal tracking data is the domain of sports analytics , where vision based tracking systems have been deployed in professional basketball [ 6 ] , soccer [ 7 ] , baseball [ 8 ] tennis and cricket [ 9 ] . However , even though an enormous amount of data is being generated for visualization and umpiring consideration , few methods for large scale analysis of the tracking data have surfaced .
In team sports , there are two types of analysis that can be conducted : a ) individual and b ) team analysis . In terms of analyzing individual player behavior , current methods plot locations of a particular player for an event or their mean position over time [ 10 ] . However , such methods lack important contextual information with regards to their team mates . For example in soccer ( see Fig 1(a) ) , given we have a player who starts on the left wing but then half way through the half he switches to the right wing , we get two distinct types of behaviors ( ie , left and right wing play ) . Current analysis conducts the analysis based on his original position or “ role ” ( ie , left wing ) which makes comparisons challenging . Ideally , we want a contextual label noting the player ’s role at that specific moment ( and not normal/starting position ) . To conduct role specific analysis , we first need to define the set of roles . A role within a team can be defined as a space or area that each player is assigned responsibility for relative to the
( a )
( b )
Fig 1 . ( a ) Shows the touches of the player who starts in the left wing position but changes half way through the half to the right wing . Current approaches just give the mean position which neglects the context . ( b ) In this paper , we utilize a role representation which captures the context to allow for individual player analysis . other teammates . The overall team formation therefore , can be defined as a set of roles , and these set of roles can vary depending on the tactics/strategy of the coach as well as the behavior of the adversarial ( ie , opposing ) team . In an information theoretical sense , this can be seen as partitioning the set of player positions ( ie , input data ) into clusters which minimize the overlap or entropy . This is called minimum entropy data partitioning and in this paper we show that we can learn the roles directly from data . We show that this approach effectively aligns the multi agent tracking data and allows for the detection and visualization of formations , as well as provides contextual information to do individual player analysis depending on their specific role ( Fig 1(b) ) .
A . Problem Definition
The simplest method of representing team behavior from tracking data is to use player identity . This means that given the x , y position of every player in the team , we initialize the players into some canonical ordering and these players remain fixed in this order throughout the entire match . Given N = 11 players , the representation at frame t can be given as xt = [ x1 , y1 , x2 , y2 , . . . , x11 , y11]T where the subscripts 111 refer to the unique identifier of the player such as jersey or player name . However , as seen in Fig 2 , the static assumption is not ideal as there is constant interchanging of positions xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxMeanMeanLWxxMeanRW ( a )
( b )
Fig 2 . ( a ) Given the player movements over the course of a match , we want to find the formation the team played over the match . ( b ) This is problematic as players continuously change position throughout a match causing heavy overlap in their spatial probability density functions ( depicted as 2D Gaussians here ) . making the dimensionality of the resulting subspace much higher [ 11 ] . Additionally , this assumption breaks down when there is a substitution , an expulsion of a player due to misconduct ( ie , red card in soccer ) , or when comparing different teams ( ie , different identities ) . To cope with the constant interchanging of player positions , a role representation relaxes the fixed assignment constraint and assigns each player a role at every frame . This dynamic representation allows a player to be assigned multiple roles throughout the match , but only one per frame . This allows player behaviors to be compared fairly based on their role .
We define a player ’s role in a team by their position relative to the other roles . Sports such as soccer already have a well established vocabulary for naming roles that incorporate both spatial and strategic aspects ( ie , the left wing plays in front of the left back and to the left of the center midfielder ) . A formation is a spatial arrangement of players , and is effectively a strategic concept ( ie , different teams can use the same formation simultaneously ) and can be defined as a set of roles . A formation is generally shift invariant and allows for nonrigid deformations .
Definition 1.1 : A formation F is an arbitrarily ordered set of N roles {R1 , R2 , . . . , RN} which describes the spatial arrangement of N players .
Each role within a formation is unique ( ie , no two players in a team can have the same role at the same time ) , but players can swap roles throughout the match . Additionally , multiple formations may exist which can be interpreted as different sets of roles . Essentially , role assignment can be interpreted as applying a permutation matrix to the identity representation at each frame ( see Fig 3 ) , such that the role representation at each frame is given by : rt = Ptxt . The permutation matrix Pt is found via minimizing the total cost of the player positions to the template formation ( we show how we can learn the formation directly from data in Section III ) .
II . RELATED WORK
A . Mining Individual Agent/Object Trajectories in Sport
Although all teams sports are instantiations of multiagent trajectories , most current work using spatiotemporal data has focussed on individual behaviors thus avoiding the issue of alignment . Examples of this include work done in basketball where individual shooting , rebounding and decisionmaking characteristics are analyzed [ 12]–[14 ] . Miller et al . [ 15 ] used non negative matrix factorization to characterize different types of shooters in basketball by modeling shot attempts as
Fig 3 . Given the x , y positions of each player in a team , we can represent the team at time t by a canonical ordering such as jersey number 1 11 which is fixed throughout the entire match ( left ) . However , as players interchange roles during a match , we are more interested in where they are relative to their team mates compared to who they are . Depicted here are roles in a 4 3 3 formation . To obtain the role representation rt , we can apply the permutation matrix Pt to xt(right ) . a point process . In soccer , Lucey et al . [ 16 ] , [ 17 ] , detected a team ’s style of play using an occupancy map of ball movement of a team in soccer . Gudmundsson and Wolle [ 18 ] clustered the passes and movement of individual players . While Pena and Touchette [ 19 ] use network theory to characterize team patterns by fixing players in their nominal position and quantifying importance based on the number of passes between players . In tennis , Wei et al . [ 20 ] , [ 21 ] used Hawk Eye data to predict the type and location of the next shot based on the behavior of the opponent .
B . Mining Multi Agent/Object Trajectories
In multi agent domains , the common thread of aligning trajectories has centered on using a predefined quantized representation or codebook of the environment . The seminal work of Intille and Bobick [ 22 ] used pre aligned trajectories to recognize a single American football play . Zhu et al . [ 23 ] combined the movements of the players and the ball in soccer into a single “ aggregate trajectory ” to classify goal scoring events into categories . Perse et al . [ 24 ] recognized activities in basketball by converting player trajectories into a string of symbols based on key player positions and actions using a quantized court . Bricola [ 25 ] recognized activities in basketball from player trajectories by segmented the trajectories into tracklets which were matched to codewords using Dynamic Time Warping . Stracuzzi et al . [ 26 ] recognized group activities in American Football using a labeled dataset of actions and the trajectories were labeled by matching them to the closest in the labeled dataset . Dynamic time warping was used to compare the signals and the features of each aligned point . Kim et al . [ 27 ] used motion fields to predict the future location of the ball in soccer . Carr et al . [ 28 ] estimated the centroid of team motion using real time player detection data to predict the future location of play for automatic broadcasting purposes .
The initial idea of aligning player trajectories based on role was proposed by Lucey et al . , [ 11 ] who used a codebook of manually labelled roles . This type of approach was used to discover how teams achieved open three point shots in basketball [ 29 ] . Bialkowski et al . [ 30 ] also used a similar approach to investigate the home advantage in soccer , and Wei et al . [ 31 ] used it to cluster different methods of how
1111111111xt"==rt =x,y GKx,yLBx,yLCBx,yRBx,yLCMx,yRCMx,yACMx,yLWx,ySTx,yRWx,yRW1x,y ID 1x,y ID 2x,y ID 3x,y ID 4x,y ID 5x,y ID 6x,y ID 7x,y ID 8x,y ID 9x,y ID 10x,y ID 11x,y ID 1x,y ID 2x,y ID 3x,y ID 4x,y ID 5x,y ID 6x,y ID 7x,y ID 8x,y ID 9x,y ID 10x,y ID 11Pt The expression for V is drastically simplified when put in terms of entropy
H(x ) = −
P ( x ) log(P ( x))dx .
+∞
−∞
The total overlap cost , in terms of entropy , becomes
V = −H(x ) +
= −H(x ) +
N N n=1
1 N n=1
P ( n)H(x|n )
H(x|n ) .
( 6 )
( 7 )
( 8 )
Substituting 8 into 4 and ignoring the constant term H(x ) , the optimal formation is the set of role specific probability density functions that minimize the total entropy
( 1 )
F∗ = arg minF
H(x|n ) .
( 9 )
N n=1 teams scored a goal . Although these works all align the multiagent data is some form , our work differs as we learn this alignment directly from the data .
III . ROLE DISCOVERY USING MINIMUM ENTROPY DATA
PARTITIONING A . Minimum Entropy Data Partitioning
Given player tracking data D , our goal is to estimate the underlying formation of the team , which is equivalent to finding the most probable set F∗ of 2D probability density functions F∗ = arg maxF P ( F|D ) . We begin by considering the 2D probability density function P ( X = x ) which models the tracking data D . In other words , P ( x ) represents the heatmap for an entire team . We can model the heat map of the entire team as a linear combination of the heat maps for each role
N N n=1
1 N n=1
P ( x ) =
=
P ( x|n)P ( n )
Pn(x ) .
B . Equivalence to K Means
Strategically , a team needs to spread out its players so that the entire field is adequately covered . As a result , the probability density functions should exhibit minimal overlap ( see Fig 4 ( d) ) . Equivalently , each role probability density function should exhibit minimal overlap with the team ’s probability density function . Following the ideas of minimum entropy data partitioning [ 32 ] , [ 33 ] , we employ Kullback Lieber divergence to measure the overlap between two probability functions P ( x ) and Q(x )
KL(P ( x)Q(x ) ) =
P ( x ) log dx .
( 2 )
P ( x )
Q(x )
Since divergence is a strictly positive quantity ( and completely overlapping probability density functions have zero divergence ) , we employ a penalty Vn based on the negative divergence value between the heat map Pn(x ) of an individual role and that of the team P ( x )
Vn = −KL,Pn(x)P ( x) .
( 3 )
Computing the optimal formation F∗ is equivalent to determining the optimal set F∗ = {P1(x ) , . . . , PN ( x)}∗ of per role probability density functions Pn(x ) that minimize the total overlap
F∗ = arg minF V .
( 4 )
Substituting the expressions for KL divergence into the total overlap cost illustrates the dependence on each rolespecific 2D probability density function
V = − N N n=1
+ n=1
P ( n )
P ( n )
P ( x|n ) log P ( x|n)dx
P ( x|n ) log P ( x)dx .
( 5 )
As there is no way to solve this problem efficiently , we achieve an approximate solution using the expectation maximization ( EM ) algorithm [ 34 ] . Our approach is similar to k means clustering but with the constraint that at every frame , each detection requires a unique role . The procedure is as follows . Firstly , we negate the effects of translation by normalizing the tracking data to have zero mean in each frame , and set teams to attack from left to right . Then , the initial role distributions are set by arbitrarily assigning each player a unique role label at the start of the match and assuming it remains fixed for the entire match . Even though there is heavy overlap between some players , initializing the distributions based on player identity is a reasonable estimate as we assume that players tend to play one role for the majority of the time . The initial occupancy maps for each role resemble something similar to Fig 4 ( a ) . We then iterate through each frame of the tracking data and assign role labels to the tracking data by formulating a cost matrix based on the log probability of each ( x , y ) position being assigned a particular role label and compute the optimal assignment using the Hungarian algorithm [ 35 ] . Once role labels have been assigned to all frames of the tracking data , we recompute the probability density functions of each role . The process is repeated until convergence , resulting in well separated probability density functions similar to Fig 4 ( d ) .
IV . DISCOVERING AND VISUALIZING ROLE
A . Spatiotemporal Tracking Data
For this work , we utilized an entire season of soccer player tracking data from Prozone . The data consisted of 20 teams who played home and away , totaling 38 games for each team or 380 games overall . Five of these games were omitted due to erroneous data files . We refer to the 20 teams using arbitrary labels {A , B , . . . , T} . Each game consists of two halves , with each half containing the ( x , y ) position of every player at 10 frames per second . This results in over 1 million datapoints per game , in addition to the ball events that occurred
( a ) Initial Roles
( b ) Iteration 1
( c ) Iteration 2
( d ) Final Roles
Fig 4 . Example of our role discovery procedure for two teams showing the role distributions at each iteration ( drawn as 2D gaussians ) . The initial role distributions , ( a ) , are calculated by assuming each player is assigned a single role over all frames and taking their distribution over the half . A high degree of overlap is exhibited due to frequent positional swaps between players . Taking ( a ) as the template , each frame is assigned to these roles and the updated distributions are shown in ( b ) . This is then used as the template for the next iteration and the procedure is repeated until convergence , resulting in well separated role distributions as in ( d ) . throughout the match , consisting of 43 possible events ( eg passes , shots , crosses , tackles etc ) Each of these ball events contains the time stamp , location and players involved . An inventory of the data is given in Table I .
B . Formation Detection
By using the expectation maximization procedure for minimum entropy data partitioning described in Section III B , we simultaneously assign each player to a role at each frame of the tracking data and determine the role probability distributions , Pn(x ) . We performed this procedure for each team and match half , excluding formations where players were sent off , resulting in the detection of 1411 formations . Each formation consists of a set of ten distinct role probability distributions representing the structural arrangement of the team over a half , and depicts the long term characteristic behavior of the team . Given these role distributions , we then automatically discovered different types of formations . We employed agglomerative clustering to group the discovered formations into clusters , using the Earth Mover ’s Distance ( EMD ) [ 36 ] to compute the distance between two role probability densities . The EMD(a , b ) between two normalized histograms a and b is obtained as the solution of the transportation problem stD q=1 fqt = at,D t=1 fqt = bq . ( 10 )
D q,t=1 min fqt≥0 dqtfqt
The variable fqt denotes a flow representing the amount transported from the qth supply to the tth demand and dqt the ground distance . Using the EMD measure gave us role to role
Statistic Teams Games
Data Points Ball Events
Frequency
20 375 480M 981K
TABLE I .
INVENTORY OF THE DATASET USED FOR THIS WORK .
Fig 5 . Formation clustering results displaying the mean role positions of each formation assigned to each cluster , and the median formation overlaid in grey . ( Note : all formations are set so that teams attack from left to right ) comparison distances , and then we set the distance between one formation and another equal to the sum of the distances between corresponding roles .
The resulting clusters are shown in Fig 5 , with the mean role positions of each formation overlaid over one another . It can be seen that clustering resulted in the discovery of distinct formation classes eg Cluster 1 and 4 have only 1 striker in the front , Cluster 2 and 6 have 2 strikers , while Cluster 3 and 5 appear to have 3 . Cluster 3 is the only cluster with 3 defenders at the back with the remainder all having 4 . The clustering also gives an indication of which formations are more commonly adopted by teams , as given by the clustering assignment frequency ( top right of each cluster in Fig 5 ) . We can see that Cluster 2 , which appears to be a 4 4 2 , is the most common with approximately 50.37 % of formations being assigned to this cluster , followed by Cluster 1 ( 20.76% ) , which appears to be a 4 2 3 1 . These give insight into the strategies adopted by teams ( eg having 2 strikers instead of 1 may be considered a more attacking strategy ) .
To evaluate the clustering results , we compare against ground truth formation labels , where a soccer expert annotated the dominant formation observed for each half and team according to the arrangement of players ( 4 4 2 , 4 2 3 1 , 4 3 3 , 3 4 3 , 4 1 4 1 , or ‘other’ where the team either did not display a dominant formation or was not one of the given labels ) . To evaluate the results , we estimated the label of each cluster as
G691 T1 , Iteration 13 , diff = 0.00m12345678910G691 T1 , Iteration 2 , diff = 3.77m12345678910G691 T1 , Iteration 1 , diff = 13.17m12345678910G691 T1 , Initial Role Positions12345678910G241 T1 , Iteration 41 , diff = 0.00m12345678910G241 T1 , Iteration 2 , diff = 5.27m12345678910G241 T1 , Iteration 1 , diff = 21.57m12345678910G241 T1 , Initial Role Positions12345678910Initial RolesIteration 1Iteration 2Final Roles5037%2076%1252%540%315%090%Cluster 1Cluster 2Cluster 3Cluster 4Cluster 5Cluster 6 Fig 7 . By aligning the data based on role , we can quickly visualize and digest the flow of the match based on the formation of each team . Here we show snapshots of a match at different moments and highlight key events ( circles = goals ) with the home team ( red ) attacking left to right . The x ’s denote the mean role position across a small window of time ( 5 mins ) and the ellipses show the variance of motion of each role .
Fig 6 . Formation clustering results presented in a confusion matrix comparing the assigned cluster number of each example with its ground truth formation label . The values refer to the percentage of examples in each cluster belonging to each ground truth formation label . the most frequent ground truth label within the cluster . The results are presented as a confusion matrix in Fig 6 .
It can be seen from Fig 6 that the discovered formation clusters match the ground truth annotations quite well , with high within cluster label agreement and an overall correct classification rate of 7533 % The most confusion is in Cluster 6 which appears to be a 4 1 3 2 formation ( sometimes referred to as a 4 4 2 ‘diamond’ ) , often being classified as a 4 4 2 and 4 3 3 . On visual inspection of the misclassified examples , sometimes the formation appears in between two clusters , eg there is some confusion between the 4 4 2 and 4 2 31 formations when the second striker is positioned slightly behind the other .
C . Formation Visualization
In addition to representing the long term behavior of the team in terms of formation or team structure , our method can also be used over shorter durations , to dynamically represent how a team plays throughout a match . Compared to existing statistics which only contain sparse team information ( eg # corners , # shots , % possession ) , our approach can represent the spatiotemporal characteristics of the match in terms of formations and position .
One of the statistics which broadcasters present during a live broadcast is the possession duration of both teams over the past 5 minutes which gives an indication of which team is dominating . While this is insightful , it does not give any information about where this is happening . Using a sliding window of 5 minutes on the role assigned player positions we can visualize play progression in terms of team formations and positions relative to one another , by representing the role distributions over the time window with 2D Gaussians . A filmstrip of this approach is shown in Fig 7 .
D . Individual Player Analysis
Compared to existing analysis which often only looks at the mean behaviors of each player , our role assignment method dynamically assigns players to roles throughout a match and therefore , allows us to see the different characteristic behaviors
( a )
( b )
Fig 8 . Every event within a match half segmented into ( a ) roles , versus ( b ) player identity ( both colored by the role of the player at the frame of the event ) of each player . First , we analyze the events that occurred within the match ( see Fig 8 ) . On the left we segmented all events by role . On the right we segmented events by player identity . In this example , the players playing left wing and right wing swap roles for part of the match , and the role representation is effectively able to color these . If we were to simply take the mean of each players actions , we would miss this important tactical variation , and hence role provides important context in player analysis .
Next we demonstrate how we can examine the roles of each player over a match half as shown in Fig 9 . In this example , we can see the behavior of two teams and how players dynamically alternate relative positions throughout a match , essentially representing how versatile the players are within the formation . Plot ( c ) represents a 5 min smoothed version of the role assignments ( to ignore temporary role swaps ) showing dominant roles taken by each player . From this , it can be seen that in the top game , roles remain constant throughout the match , while in the second game the midfielders ( roles 5 and 6 , shown in blue and grey ) alternate positions throughout the match .
V . SUMMARY
In this paper , we presented a role based representation to represent player tracking data , which was found by minimizing the entropy of a set of player role distributions . We showed how this could be efficiently solved using an EM approach which simultaneously assigns players to roles throughout a match and discovers the team ’s overall role distributions . Using this method we show how we can perform both individual player and team analysis , providing context to player statistics and enabling large scale team analysis over a full season of player tracking data . In future work , we plan to use these methods to delve deeper into the various strategic patterns teams exhibit .
Confusion matrix 84120017101083002240197171201167117510873012187484−2−3−14−4−23−4−34−3−34−1−4−1Interesting4−2−3−14−4−23−4−34−3−34−1−4−1Interesting0102030405060708090100Ground Truth Formation Label4 2 3 14 4 23 4 34 3 34 1 4 1Other123456Cluster Number11223344556677889910101122334455667788991010NeutralAttack : Red Team1122334455667788991010Attack : Blue Team1122334455667788991010Attack : Red Team45 min30 min15 min0 min Fig 9 . The behavior of two different teams over half a match , demonstrating : ( a ) Their overall formation calculated using our minimum entropy data partitioning method ( with roles represented as 2D Gaussians ) . ( b ) A timeline showing the role assigned to each player at each frame , colored by role . ( c ) A 5 min smoothed version of the role assignments ( ignores temporary role swaps ) , ( d ) The per frame role swaps across the half {left back(LB ) , left center back(LCB ) , right center back(RCB ) , right back(RB ) , left centre midfield(LCM ) , defensive midfield(DM ) , right centre midfield(RCM ) , left wing(LW ) , right wing(RW ) , attacking center midfielder(ACM ) , striker(ST)}
Acknowledgement : The QUT portion of this research was supported by the Qld Govt ’s Dept . of Employment , Economic Development & Innovation .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ]
J . Yuan , Y . Zheng , C . Zhang , W . Xie , X . Xie , G . Sun , and Y . Huang , “ T Drive : Driving Directions based on Taxi Trajectories , ” in GIS , 2010 . [ 2 ] L . Tang , X . Yu , S . Kim , J . Han , C . Hung , and W . Peng , “ TruAlarm : Trustworthiness Analysis of Sensor Networks in Cyber Physical Systems , ” in ICDM , 2010 .
[ 4 ]
[ 3 ] Y . Zheng , X . Xie , and W . Ma , “ GeoLife : A Collaborative Social Networking Service Among User , Service , ” IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin , 2010 . J . Gudmundsson and M . Krevald , “ Computing Longest Duration Flocks in Trajectory Data , ” in GIS , 2006 . J . Lee , J . Han , and K . Whang , “ Trajectory clustering : a partitionand group framework , ” in International Conference on Management of Data . ACM , 2007 .
[ 5 ]
[ 6 ] STATS SportsVU , wwwsportvucom [ 7 ] Prozone , wwwprozonesportscom [ 8 ] SportsVision , wwwsportsvisioncom [ 9 ] Hawk Eye , wwwhawkeyeinnovationscouk [ 10 ] E . GameCast , http://wwwespnfccom/gamecast/392450/gamecasthtml [ 11 ] P . Lucey , A . Bialkowski , P . Carr , S . Morgan , I . Matthews , and Y . Sheikh , “ Representing and Discovering Adversarial Team Behaviors using Player Roles , ” in CVPR , 2013 .
[ 12 ] K . Goldsberry , “ CourtVision : New Visual and Spatial Analytics for the
NBA , ” in MIT SSAC , 2012 .
[ 13 ] R . Masheswaran , Y . Chang , J . Su , S . Kwok , T . Levy , A . Wexler , and N . Hollingsworth , “ The Three Dimensions of Rebounding , ” in MIT SSAC , 2014 .
[ 14 ] D . Cervone , A . D’Amour , L . Bornn , and K . Goldsberry , “ POINTWISE : Predicting Points and Valuing Decisions in Real Time with NBA Optical Tracking Data , ” in MIT SSAC , 2014 .
[ 15 ] A . Miller , L . Bornn , R . Adams , and K . Goldsberry , “ Factorized Point Process Intensities : A Spatial Analysis of Professional Basketball , ” in ICML , 2014 .
[ 16 ] P . Lucey , A . Bialkowski , P . Carr , E . Foote , and I . Matthews , “ Characterizing Multi Agent Team Behavior from Partial Team Tracings : Evidence from the English Premier League , ” in AAAI , 2012 .
[ 17 ] P . Lucey , D . Oliver , P . Carr , J . Roth , and I . Matthews , “ Assessing team
[ 18 ]
[ 19 ] strategy using spatiotemporal data , ” in ACM SIGKDD , 2013 . J . Gudmundsson and T . Wolle , “ Football analysis using spatio temporal tools , ” Computers , Environment and Urban Systems , 2013 . J . L . Pe˜na and H . Touchette , “ A network theory analysis of football strategies , ” arXiv preprint arXiv:1206.6904 , 2012 .
[ 20 ] X . Wei , P . Lucey , S . Morgan , and S . Sridharan , “ Sweet Spot : Using Spatiotemporal Data to Discover and Predict Shots in Tennis , ” in MIT SSAC , 2013 .
[ 21 ] —— , “ Predicting Shot Locations in Tennis using Spatiotemporal Data , ” in DICTA , 2013 .
[ 22 ] S . Intille and A . Bobick , “ Recognizing Planned , Multi Person Action , ”
CVIU , vol . 81 , pp . 414–445 , 2001 .
[ 23 ] G . Zhu , Q . Huang , C . Xu , Y . Rui , S . Jiang , W . Gao , and H . Yao , “ Trajectory based event tactics analysis in broadcast sports video , ” in International Conference on Multimedia . ACM , 2007 .
[ 24 ] M . Perse , M . Kristan , S . Kovacic , and J . Pers , “ A Trajectory Based Analysis of Coordinated Team Activity in Basketball Game , ” CVIU , 2008 . J C Bricola , “ Classification of multi agent trajectories , ” Master ’s thesis , EPFL , 2012 .
[ 25 ]
[ 26 ] D . Stracuzzi , A . Fern , K . Ali , R . Hess , J . Pinto , N . Li , T . Konik , and D . Shapiro , “ An Application of Transfer to American Football : From Observation of Raw Video to Control in a Simulated Environment , ” AI Magazine , vol . 32 , no . 2 , 2011 .
[ 27 ] K . Kim , M . Grundmann , A . Shamir , I . Matthews , J . Hodgins , and I . Essa , “ Motion Fields to Predict Play Evolution in Dynamic Sports Scenes , ” in CVPR , 2010 .
[ 28 ] P . Carr , M . Mistry , and I . Matthews , “ Hybrid Robotic/Virtual Pan TiltZoom Cameras for Autonomous Event Recording , ” in ACM Multimedia , 2013 .
[ 29 ] P . Lucey , A . Bialkowski , P . Carr , Y . Yue , and I . Matthews , “ How to Get an Open Shot : Analyzing Team Movement in Basketball using Tracking Data , ” in MIT SSAC , 2014 .
[ 30 ] A . Bialkowski , P . Lucey , P . Carr , Y . Yue , and I . Matthews , “ Win at home and draw away : Automatic formation analysis highlighting the differences in home and away team behaviors , ” in MIT SSAC , 2014 .
[ 31 ] X . Wei , L . Sha , P . Lucey , S . Morgan , and S . Sridharan , “ Large Scale
Analysis of Formations in Soccer , ” in DICTA , 2013 .
[ 32 ] S . Roberts , R . Everson , and I . Rezek , “ Minimum Entropy Data Parti tioning , ” IET , 1999 .
[ 33 ] Y . Lee and S . Choi , “ Minimum Entropy , K Means , Spectral Clustering , ” in International Joint Conference on Neural Networks , 2004 .
[ 34 ] A . Dempster , N . Laird , and D . Rubin , “ Maximum Likelihood from Incomplete Data via the EM Algorithm , ” Journal of the Royal Statistical Society , vol . 39 , no . 1 , 1977 .
[ 35 ] H . W . Kuhn , “ The hungarian method for the assignment problem , ”
Naval Research Logistics Quarterly , vol . 2 , no . 1 2 , 1955 .
[ 36 ] Y . Rubner , C . Tomasi , and L . Guibas , “ A Metric for Distributions with
Applications to Image Databases , ” in ICCV , 1998 .
LBLCBRCBRBDMRCMLWRWLCMST LBLCBRCBRBDMLCMRCMLWRWSTLBLCBRCBRBDMLCMRCMLWRWST(a)(b)(c)(d)LBLCBRCBRBLCMRCMLWRWACMST LBLCBRCBRBLCMRCMLWRWACMSTLBLCBRCBRBLCMRCMLWRWACMST
