Hierarchical Density Based Clustering of Uncertain Data
Hans Peter Kriegel , Martin Pfeifle
Institute for Computer Science University of Munich , Germany {kriegel , pfeifle}@ifidbslmude ofuzzy(x , y ) x y possible exact position of o ( one sample value )
Figure 1 : Fuzzy object representation .
2 . F OPTICS In this section , we will present the algorithm F OPTICS suitable for clustering fuzzy object representations . First , in Section 2.1 , we present the theoretical foundations underlying the F OPTICS approach . Then , in Section 2.2 , we put these theoretical concepts into practice .
2.1 Theoretical Foundations
Fuzzy object representations , also denoted simply as fuzzy objects , occur in many different application ranges . They can be modelled by a probability density function indicating the likelihood that an object is located at a certain position ( cf . Figure 1 ) .
Definition 1 Fuzzy Object Representation Let o ( cid:143)fiD ( cid:142)fi IRd be an object from a database . A fuzzy object representation is a function ofuzzy : IRd the following condition holds :
, for which
+ IR0
( cid:102)(cid:137 ) ofuzzy vff fi vd
1=
( cid:179)(cid:179 ) IRd
The distance between two fuzzy objects can be described by the following two fuzzy distance functions .
Definition 2 Distance Density Function + Let d : D D IR0 let P a b denote the probability that d(o,o’ ) is befi ff tween a and b . Then a probability density function pd : D D + IR0 ) is called a distance density function if the ( following condition holds : be a distance function , and d o o' fflff
+ IR0
( cid:102)(cid:137 )
( cid:100 ) fi
( cid:100 )
P a ff
( cid:100 ) d o o' fflff fi
( cid:100 ) b fi pd o o' fflff fi xff fi xd b ( cid:179)= a
Abstract The hierarchical density based clustering algorithm OPTICS has proven to help the user to get an overview over large data sets . When using OPTICS for analyzing uncertain data which naturally occur in many emerging application areas , eg location based services , or sensor databases , the similarity between uncertain objects has to be expressed by one numerical distance value . Based on such single valued distance functions OPTICS , like other standard data mining algorithms , can work without any changes . In this paper , we propose to express the similarity between two fuzzy objects by distance probability functions which assign a probability value to each possible distance value . Contrary to the traditional approach , we do not extract aggregated values from the fuzzy distance functions but enhance OPTICS so that it can exploit the full information provided by these functions . The resulting algorithm FOPTICS helps the user to get an overview over a large set of fuzzy objects .
1 . Introduction
The standard OPTICS algorithm [ 1 ] , like other data mining algorithms , can only analyze uncertain data if we measure the distance ( similarity ) between uncertain objects by one numerical value . These single valued distance functions do not reflect the uncertainty of the compared objects , as all possible distances are aggregated by only one distance value . Obviously , aggregation goes hand in hand with information loss . For instance , we have no information about the degree of uncertainty of such a single distance value . Even if we had one , it would be of no use because traditional algorithms , eg join algorithms or clustering algorithms , cannot handle this additional information .
In this paper , we propose to use fuzzy distance functions to measure the similarity between uncertain object representations . Contrary to the traditional approaches , we do not extract aggregated values from these fuzzy distance functions but propose to enhance data mining algorithms so that they can exploit the full information provided by these functions . As hierarchical density based clustering is very useful for analyzing complex data sets , we exemplarily demonstrate in this paper how fuzzy distance functions can be integrated into the hierarchical density based clustering algorithm OPTICS . We call the resulting clustering algorithm F OPTICS indicating that it is based on fuzzy distance functions measuring the similarity between uncertain data .
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE ff
,ff
+ IR0
Definition 3 Distance Distribution Function Let d : D fi D be a distance function , and let denote the probability that d(o , o’ ) is smaller P d o o' than b . Then a probability distribution function Pd : O fiO + IR0 [ 01 ] ) is called a distance distribution function if the ( following condition holds : b(cid:100 ) fi fi a ) fuzzy coreExp trad coreExp o b ) fuzzy core Exp o trad core Exp
Pd o o' fflff fi bff fi
=
P d o o'
,ff ff fi b(cid:100 ) fi probability probability
Based on these two fuzzy distance functions , we can extend the fundamental definitions of hierarchical density based clustering as presented in [ 1 ] so that they can be used for clustering fuzzy object representations . Definition 4 Fuzzy Core Distance Let D be a database , and let Pd : DfifiD ( fi [ 01 ] ) be a fuzzy distance distribution function . Then , the fuzzy core distance ) is defined as follows : core dist
+ IR0 + ( cid:102)(cid:137 )
:D( core dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl off fi xff fi =
+ IR0
IR0
–
– ffl ffl ffl fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl Pd p offlff ( cid:166 ) ( cid:150 ) p A(cid:143 ) A D(cid:142 ) A
( fi xff fi
1 Pd p' offl –ff ff
( cid:150 ) p' D\A(cid:143 ) fi xff fi fi dx ) core dist
– fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl off fi xff fi
Lemma 1 . The function is equal to the density probability function reflecting the likelihood that the core distance of o ( according to [ 1 ] ) is equal to x . Proof . First , we determine for each subset A of D having a cardinality higher than the probability that only the points of A are within an x range of o but no points of D\A . The sum of all these probability values is equal to the probability distribution funcwhich assigns to tion each distance value x a probability value that the core distance of o is smaller than x . The function corresponds to the derivation of Note that the traditional core distance value core dist(cid:72),ffld,D(o ) of an object o can also be regarded as a fuzzy core distance : off fi core dist(cid:72 ) d D ffl
P core dist(cid:72 ) d D ff ffl core dist core dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl
C off fi xff fi
C off fi xff fi off fi xff fi off fi xff fi
( cid:71 ) x –ff off fi x(cid:100 )
– . fi ,
=
=
– fi ffl ffl ffl ffl ffl ffl ffl where ( cid:71 ) denotes the dirac delta function . fuzzy coreExp off fi xff fi ffl
– core dist trad coreExp of the fuzzy Figure 2 shows that the expectation value fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D differs from core distance function ffl ffl trad coreExp which is the th smallest expectation value of the distance density functions pd(p , o ) . In the traditional approach , the distance density functions pd(p , o ) are mapped onto one value , ie their expectation value , and based on this aggregated information the expected core distance is computed . In the fuzzy approach , the fuzzy core distance is computed by exploiting the full information provided by the distance density functions . Figure 2 shows that the expectation value of the fuzzy core distance function represents the exact core distance much better than the traditional approach . For instance , in Figure 2a , the exact value core dist(cid:72),,d,D(o ) seems to be higher than the as the area around o is not very dense . On the other value hand , in Figure 2b , the exact value core dist(cid:72),ffld,D(o ) seems to be as the area around o is very smaller than the value fuzzy coreExp dense . In both cases , it is very likely that the value trad coreExp trad coreExp
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
0
0 trad coreExp distance fuzzy coreExp distance
0
0 trad coreExp distance fuzzy coreExp distance the traditional core distance trad coreExp value is smaller than the expectation value fuzzy coreExp of the fuzzy core distance . the traditional core distance trad coreExp value is greater than the expectation value fuzzy coreExp of the fuzzy core distance .
Figure 2 : Fuzzy core distance ( = 4 ) .
. trad coreExp better reflects the exact value core dist(cid:72),ffld,D(o ) than the traditional value The reachability distance reach dist(cid:72)ffl,d,D(p , o ) is defined as max(core dist(cid:72)ffl,d,D(o ) , d(p,o ) ) [ 1 ] . In our case , both of the two input parameters are fuzzy distance functions . The following definition combines these two fuzzy input functions to a fuzzy reachability distance which again is a generalization of the traditional definition . Definition 5 Fuzzy Reachability Distance Let pd(p,o ) be the fuzzy distance function between object p and ( o ) be the fuzzy core distance of o . o , and let fuzzy Then , the fuzzy reachability distance : ( cid:72 ) d D ffl D D reach dist
– ) is defined as follows :
+ IR0 ( fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl
+ ( cid:102)(cid:137 ) IR0 p offlff reach dist core dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl fi xff fi =
–
– ffl ffl ffl ffl fi xff fi pd p offlff core dist
– x(cid:179)(cid:152 )
( cid:102)– fuzzy ( cid:72 ) 1– ffl ffl core dist
– fuzzy ( cid:72 ) 1– ffl ffl d D\ p(cid:94 ) ffl off fi tff fi td
+ d D\ p(cid:94 ) ffl off fi xff fi x(cid:179)(cid:152 )
( cid:102)– pd p offlff fi tff fi td reach dist
Lemma 2 . The function is equal to the probability density function reflecting the likelihood that the reachability distance of p wrt o ( according to [ 1 ] ) is equal to x .
– fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl p offlff fi xff fi
As density d D\ p(cid:94 ) ffl functions the off fi other , we coreProof . fuzzy dist ( cid:72 ) 1– are independent from ffl ffl each Let C off fi xff fi denote the probability that fiobjects of D\{p} are located in Nx(o ) . Furdenotes the probathermore , two and can core dist x(cid:179 ) pd p offlff fi argue fuzzy ( cid:72 ) 1– ffl ffl x(cid:179)= ( cid:102)– Pd p offlff as off fi tff fi td d p offlff fi tff fidt follows . d D\ p(cid:94 ) ffl fi xff fi
( cid:102)– p
=
–
0
0
0
0
( cid:152 ) fi xff fi bility that the distance between o and p is smaller than x . As the two events are independent from each other , the value C off fi xff fi Pd p offlff denotes the probability that the core distance of o is smaller than x , and that p is located within Nx(o ) . fi xff fi C off fi xff fi Pd p offlff Finally , holds due to the product rule for differentiation . The traditional reachability distance value reach dist(cid:72),ffld,D ( p,o ) [ 1 ] can also be regarded as a fuzzy reachability distance : reach dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl p offlff fi xff fi dx
=
– ffl
( cid:152 ) fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl reach dist ( cid:71 ) x –ff p offlff – reach dist(cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl ffl fi xff fi = fi , p offlff fi where again ( cid:71 ) denotes the dirac delta function .
The traditional OPTICS algorithm repeatedly updates the reachability values of all elements in the seedlist . These reachability values determine the ordering of the elements within the seedlist . The reachability value of an object p within the seedlist denotes the smallest reachability distance to all objects o which have already been processed .
In our approach , we assign to each object in the seedlist not a single reachability value but a fuzzy object reachability function . More specifically , our approach assigns to each distance value t , a density probability value which reflects the likelihood that the exact object reachability distance is equal to t ( cf . Figure 3 ) . Definition 6 Fuzzy Object Reachability Distance Let been processed during an ( F )OPTICS run , and let +(cid:143)ff denote an element of the seedlist . Then , IR0 x fuzzy obj reach dist(cid:72 ) d D object reachability distance ffl ffl ffl + IR0 ( denote the set of all objects which have already Pred the fuzzy : D
) is defined as follows :
Pred D(cid:142 ) p D\ ( cid:143 )
+ ( cid:102)(cid:137 )
IR0 x(cid:179 ) ( cid:102)– ( cid:94 ) obj reach dist ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl p offlff dist fuzzy ffl
( cid:72 ) d D ffl
– ffl ffl pff fi tff fi td = fi o Pred
( cid:143 )
P min reach ff x(cid:100 ) fi
Note that we cannot order the elements of the seedlist according to a function , but we need an enumeration type . Therefore , we determine the expectation value of the fuzzy object reachability distances , and order the elements of the seedlist according to these values . It is quite a difference whether we form the expectation value for each fuzzy reachability distance and order the objects according to the minimum of these values , or whether we form the expectation value of the fuzzy object reachability distance and order the elements according to this value ( cf . Figure 3 ) . Again , the later we aggregate , the more accurate the results are .
2.2 Computational Aspects Algorithm . The F OPTICS algorithm basically works like the OPTICS algorithm . We always take the first element from the seedlist , add it to the result set , and carry out a range query . As outlined above , the ordering of the seedlist and the final object reachability values are based on the expectation values of the object reachability functions . The remaining question is how to compute these values efficiently and effectively . In this paper , we propose to compute the reachability obj reach dist(cid:72 ) d D ffl fuzzy ffl ffl
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE probability reach
– dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl p o1 fflff fi p o2 fflff fi o2 o1 p distance dist
– reach fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl distance dist
– reach fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl p o3 fflff fi distance o3 obj reach
– dist fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl ffl pff fi
3 predecessor objects o1 , o2 , o3 of p . distance reachability value of p based on the expectation values of the reachability distance functions . reachability value of p based on the expectation value of the final object reachability distance function .
Figure 3 : Fuzzy object reachability distance . fi ff
( cid:152 ) fi
O s2 n2 O n2ff plot generated by the F OPTICS algorithm based on monte carlo sampling . In many applications the fuzzy objects might already be described by a discrete probability density function , ie we have the sample set already . If the fuzzy object is described by a continuos probability density function , we can easily sample according to this function and derive thus a sequence of samples . In the following , we assume that each object x is represented by a sequence of s sample points , ie x is represented by s different representations <x1 , , xs> . Thus , the distance between two fuzzy objects could be described by s2 many sample distances . If we modelled the distance distribution function between two objects by these s2 distances , the minimum runtime of the F OPTICS approach would be , as we have to compute the distance between all many object pairs . Note that index structures cannot help to reduce the runtime as we have to use very high ( cid:72) values in order to detect the complete clustering hierarchy . We aim at an F OPTICS algorithm which effectively and efficiently outperforms a standard OPTICS run based on the distance expectation values which has a runtime of . The main idea of our implementation is to generate meaningful samples which represent the functions introduced in Definition 4 , 5 fi and 6 . In order to guarantee a runtime complexity of , we perform only O(s ) distance computations on the samples to compute a distance distribution function between two fuzzy objects . The fuzzy distance functions of Definition 4 , 5 and 6 are then also represented by s sample values ( cf . Figure 4 ) . In the following , we describe the F OPTICS approach . We compute for each query object o , ie the first object in the ordered seedlist ( cf . Figure 4a ) , an array A(o ) by using one range scan ( cf . of A(o ) reflect the core distance valFigure 4b ) . The s values ues of oi wrt instance database Di ={xi |<x1 , ,xi , ,xs> ( cid:143 ) p D(cid:143 ) D} , ie we compute the s values reach dist(cid:72)fflffld,Di(pi , oi ) = max ( core dist(cid:72),ffld,Di(oi ) , d(pi,oi ) ) and organize these values reachpi,oi in a list L(p,o ) which can be regarded as a meaningful representation of the function introduced in
= core dist(cid:72),ffld,Di(oi ) . Then , for all objects reach dist
O s2 n2
O s n2 p offlff ai ai fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl ffl
– fi ff ff fi
( cid:152 )
( cid:152 ) ffl seedlist p’ p p p’’
4
4
2
9
9
7 o
2
1
( cid:135)=5.5
( cid:135)=1.5 ( cid:135)=4 ordering according to the expectation values of the
( cid:135)=8 b ) object o o1 o2
4 p’2
7
3
3
5
6 p’’1 p’’2 object p’’ object p be the next object to be processed . Then , the list L(n+1)(p ) = ( R(n+1)(p1 ) , , R(n+1)(ps ) ) representing the new object reachability distance can be computed as follows :
( cid:143)ff i
1s
: R(n+1)(pi ) = min ( reachpi,o(n+1 ) i
, R(n)(pi) ) . p1 p2 a )
) 8 n o i t i n i f e D
. f c (
) p ( L s t s i l y t i l i b a h c a e r t c e j b o c )
) 8 n o i t i n i f e D
. f c (
) p ( L s t s i l y t i l i b a h c a e r t c e j b o fuzzy object reachability distances p’1 seedlist p p p’ p’’
2
4
4
4
5
6
( cid:135)=3 ( cid:135)=4
( cid:135)=5.5 ordering according to the expectation values of the fuzzy object reachability distances object p’ • core object array ( cf . Definition 6 )
A(o ) =
5 4
• reachability lists ( cf . Definition 7 ) L(p,o ) = L(p’,o ) = 7 4 7 4 L(p’’,o ) = 5 6
5 4
Figure 4 : One cycle of the F OPTICS approach ( s = 2 , = 2 ) . a ) seedlist before object o is processed b ) core object array A(o ) , and reachability lists L(p,o ) , L(p’,o ) , L(p’’,o ) c ) seedlist after object o is processed
Runtime Complexity . From an efficiency point of view , our F OPTICS approach basically carries out s parallel OPTICS runs on simple object samples , ie feature vectors . Thereby all of the s OPTICS runs process the database objects in the same order . Therefore , for each database object o we only need many range scans for the determination of the core object array A(o ) ( cf . Definition 4 ) , and for the determination of the reachability lists L(p,o ) ( cf . Definition 5 ) . Furthermore , in each cycle of our F OPTICS approach , we require only many distance computations between d dimensional feature vectors . The merging of the reachability lists L(p,o ) to object reachability lists L(p ) can be done without any further distance computations between d dimensional feature vectors .
O s n(cid:152 )
O 1ff fi ff fi
To sum up , if we assume n database objects and a sample rate of s , we can summarize the characteristics of the F OPTICS implementation as follows : • We need O(n ) range scans . • We need many distance computations between
O s n2 ff
( cid:152 ) fi d dimensional feature vectors .
Note that the number of distance computations required by OPTICS based on the distance expectation values is equal to O s2 n2
. ff fi
( cid:152 ) ffl ffl pff fi fuzzy ffl obj reach dist(cid:72 ) d D
Definition 5 ( cf . Figure 4b ) . In order to compute the fuzzy object reachability distance according to Definition 6 , we merge for a given object p all the lists L(p , o ) of all objects o that have already been processed throughout the F OPTICS run . In this merging process , we create the final object reachability list L(p ) ( cf . Figure 4a and 4c ) containing s entries R(p1 ) , , R(ps ) where R(pi ) reflects the reachability value of p in the instance database Di wrt all objects which have already been processed throughout the F OPTICS run . Let us now assume that n objects o(1 ) to o(n ) have already been to o(n)i are the correprocessed . Furthermore , we assume that o(1)i sponding instances of Di . Then , we can easily compute the reachability value R(pi ) of p for Di by R(pi ) = min {reachpi,o(1)i , , reachpi,o(n)i } . As the F OPTICS algorithm requires only the object function all reach dist – functions of all predecessor objects o , it is enough to assign the list L(p ) to each object p stored in the seedlist ( cf . Figure 4a and 4c ) . Note that we can compute the list L(p ) without materializing all the other lists L(p , o(1) ) , , L(p , o(n ) ) due to the following reasoning . Let L(n)(p ) = ( R(n)(p1 ) , , R(n)(ps ) ) be the list representing the object reachability disafter n objects have been protance cessed . Furthermore , let s be the used sample rate , and let o(n+1 ) obj reach dist(cid:72 ) d D fuzzy ( cid:72 ) d D ffl obj reach dist(cid:72 ) d D ffl fuzzy ffl fuzzy ffl p offlff pff fi pff fi and not ffl ffl ffl ffl fi ffl
3 . Conclusion
In this paper , we demonstrated how we can generate a hierarchical density based clustering on vague and uncertain information which often occurs in modern application ranges like sensor databases , spatio temporal applications , and biometric information systems . Besides lying the theoretical foundations for hierarchical density based clustering of uncertain data , we showed how to put these concepts into practice . The resulting algorithm F OPTICS can be used to cluster uncertain data , eg moving objects , effectively and efficiently . The algorithm follows the general paradigm of integrating fuzzy distance functions directly into data mining algorithms instead of working on lossy aggregated information . According to our experimental evaluation ( which is left out due to space limitations ) , the newly introduced clustering algorithm F OPTICS achieves much more accurate results than state of the art comparison partners without sacrificing efficiency .
In our future work , we will show that also other data mining algorithms working on vague information can benefit from a direct integration of fuzzy distance functions .
References [ 1 ] Ankerst M . , Breunig M . , Kriegel H P , Sander J . : OPTICS : Ordering Points To Identify the Clustering Structure . SIGMOD’ 99 .
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
