Privacy Preserving Frequent Pattern Mining Across Private Databases
Ada Wai Chee Fu , Raymond Chi Wing Wong
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
The Chinese University of Hong Kong adafu,cwwong@csecuhkeduhk
Ke Wang
Department of Computer Science Simon Fraser University , Canada wangk@cssfuca
Abstract
Privacy consideration has much significance in the application of data mining . It is very important that the privacy of individual parties will not be exposed when data mining techniques are applied to a large collection of data about the parties . In many scenarios such as data warehousing or data integration , data from the different parties form a many to many schema . This paper addresses the problem of privacy preserving frequent pattern mining in such a schema across two dimension sites . We assume that sites are not trusted and they are semi honest . Our method is based on the concept of semi join and does not involve data encryption which is used in most previous work . Experiments are conducted to study the efficiency of the proposed models .
1 Introduction
In recent years , there have been some major concerns about the privacy issues in data mining . While a lot of useful information can be uncovered by data mining techniques , it is a controversial issue for customers that their privacy may be compromised . Many organizations are cautious about their data and are reluctant to join in the exploration of possible benefits from data mining . Typically the mining result is statistical and refers to a large collection of cases as a summary and therefore does not pose any threat to the privacy of individuals . However , in the process of data mining , it is typical that some processing units will acquire the knowledge of data from other faculties down to each individual item , and it is there that the privacy issue may be significant .
In this paper , we study the mining of frequent patterns ( itemsets ) where data is resided in multiple sites . The mining of frequent patterns has significance not only in itself but also for other data mining tasks such as mining of association rules , correlations , sequences , episodes , classifiers and clusters . We shall study the case of mining frequent itemsets from a distributed database [ 6 ] . In such a distributed environment we examine the important subcase where a re lational database is partitioned vertically across the sites . This is an important scenario since it is applicable to many situations where each site is responsible for a semantical segment of the entire data collection .
Vertical partitioning often results in a star schema , where a site ( the center of the star ) will contain the joining information as a relation for the relations in the remaining sites . The center table in this site is also called the fact table and the remaining tables are called the dimension tables . Some important applications are data warehousing and OLAP where star schemas are found mostly . [ 7 ] cites a real life example of Ford Motor and Firestone Tire where tires from a specific factory had problems in certain situation , resulting in about 800 injuries . The problem could not be found by mining the database at each party , but would have been discovered earlier if the joined information is mined . This is again a case of vertical partitioning and the center table will indicate how the tire information should be joined with the automobile information . Note that for investigating into car accidents , the contents of the tables in the figure should be constrained to data related to accidents , ie cars that have involved in accidents and their corresponding tires .
The benefits of the star schema include less space , efficiency , fewer tables , simplified joins , support of drilling in reports , and flexibility to meet business needs . In all the above applications of the star schema , privacy issue arises . Data warehousing or OLAP may involve different branches or locations that do not want to reveal local information to the other sites . Ford Motor and Firesone Tire would not want to disclose their own data , but they should both be interested to have the mined results from the combined set of data . The need of privacy in data integration is obvious because of multiple data owners who are from different parties .
We assume that each site contains data that is of privacy to the particular site and it is not appropriate to disclose the details of individual record in the site to the other sites . We consider the case when the sites involved in a star schema are honest but curious or semi honest [ 4 ] . This means
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
3 Correct but Insecure Mining
First we consider a simpler version of the problem where all the tables are centralized at one site only . Therefore we do not have to worry about privacy preservation . We shall present a solution for this problem which has the property that no explicit joining of the tables is required . In the next section we shall show how this solution can be made secure . Our mechanism makes use of the concept of semi join [ 3 ] . We shall make use of the common relational algebra operators of select ( ) and semi join , which we denote by the , we typically symbol return the of tuples that contain the attributes values of . For
, which in relational algebra is written as
. 1 In particular , in a relation clarity , we denote this by
. or selected attribute values which are the results of a “ join ” of relation other relation tuple with tid
The semi join concept is used to return those tuples in a with anwith the conditions of either some selected in in . However , in our case , the “ join ” result is actually determined in the fact table . We select those “ joined tuples ” . We denote which satisfy the additional conditions in these two kinds of semi join by . A major strategy for privacy preservation is that we shall not semi join the tables . will be sent to Instead , only the by sending and or or to
’s that are in ’s in for . for getting the required We have described three symbols
, and . be a set of attribute value pairs in . We also introduced three additional , which has a and
. Let be the tid of ,
Let symbols similar definition respectively .
The symbols just described so far are represented by , tid list , which is a list of elements in the form where is the number of records with is a transaction id in a dimension table and in the fact table
.
In this section , we introduce a motivating example shown in Figure 1 so as to illustrate the defined symbols and to describe the overall framework of our frequent pattern mining algorithms in a star . We will make use of the concepts in this example to introduce the protocols for privacypreserving mining in Section 4 .
In this example , there are two dimension tables , and one fact table and contains a primary key ( or tid ) and other attributes ( or items ) . For instance , ,
. Each of and
,
,
, and are tid ’s in
, are items or attribute value pairs in to the tid ’s of
, and
. . contains mappings of the tid ’s of
, and
There are the following steps in finding the frequent pat terns . Details can be found in [ 5 ] .
1 .
( a )
,
1Recall that the semijoin of two relations and by is
, where selects those tuples of that contributes to
, which we denote . Thus , is the schema for . the sites will follow the protocol for data mining but may try to find out more knowledge from the processing . We assume that it is of benefit to both the dimension sites to obtain the proper mining results . Therefore they would all cooperate to follow the protocol . This is true in all the above mentioned applications since the sites have mutual interests . Our contributions include the following .
( 1 ) We generalize the work for privacy preserving frequent pattern mining for one to one relationship [ 7 ] : we mine frequent patterns across two parties with many tomany relationship in the form of a star schema . It means that there is no cardinality constraint on the relationship .
( 2 ) Our method is based on the concepts of semi join and does not rely on encryption as in most other related work . To our knowledge this is the first such attempt .
2 Problem Definition
Consider a relational database with a star schema . There and and
, storing their own tables ,
, respectively . There is also a special site are multiple sites , say and , which stores the relationship of the other sites in a table called the are called the difact table , or simply . Sites is called the fact table site . The mension sites while table at each dimension site is called a dimension table , which has its own primary key and other attributes . The are deprimary keys of transactions of tables , respectively . For simplicity , we assume noted by that such a primary key is also the corresponding transaction id ( ) and these transaction ids will be foreign keys stores the relationship of in the fact table . Therefore , site and and and in and by storing the combinations of foreign keys . and and are denoted by
The attributes value pairs of a transaction or a record , respecin the table tively . For example , we may have season , summer and occupation , academics , as some attribute value pairs . An itemset is a set of attribute value pairs , in which the attributes should be unique . An itemset appears in a record of a table if all of its attribute value pairs appear in the record . Given a support threshold , a frequent itemset from a times in a table . We are table is one that appears at least going to mine the frequent itemsets that appear in the table ) across resulting from joining the tables ( all the different sites , without the risk of the disclosure of any sensitive information from one site to other sites . keeps
We assume that site knows the columns in and each dimensional for attributes from . All site sites are not trusted but are assumed to be semi honest . An example application of such a center site is a mediator in electronic trading , where the dimension sites will be the buyers and the sellers . In the car accident problem , the center site may be a mediator site for investigation about the car accidents .
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE tid a1 a2 a3 a4
Items x1 , x3 , x5 x2 , x3 , x6 x1 , x3 , x6 x1 , x4 , x6 tid(A ) tid(B ) a1 a1 a1 a3 a3 a1 b5 b3 b2 b2 b5 b5 tid b1 b2 b3 b4 b5
Items y1 , y3 , y5 y1 , y3 , y6 y2 , y4 , y6 y1 , y4 , y5 y1 , y4 , y6
Figure 1 . Example
( b )
2 .
,
Site site computes and sends these to for all frequent itemsets at .
2 . Round 2 Site computes from for all and then computes in in for all For all frequent itemsets pair of . and to
.
, site sends the
3 . Round 3 For each frequent itemset with the contents of to inserts the contents of of sends Site all frequent itemsets .
, site to site
. and forms
3 4 The combined frequency = total count in the list
4 . Round 4 All frequent itemsets will be sent from site but site will not be notified of the results . to site
= 5
4.1 Analysis
,
,
) to and and
, site from . If are located at different sites
Consideration of Privacy Preservation : If the tables , and , respectively , and privacy is a concern . Let us examine needs the above steps again . To compute ’s such as only the counts of its sends the contents of can compute ing information about the contents of or attribute value pairs in to know that ID that of
( meaning the correspond , without any ( meaning the items dose not need only gets a certain itemset sends the contents . , also without are quite knowing that helpful in masking information about the private databases . In the following section , we introduce protocols based on these observations .
. has assigned to can compute the intersection with
( meaning the corresponding
. Therefore the
) . That is ,
) to
If
4 Privacy Preserving Mining and
There are two dimension sites . We assume that the fact table is only available to site and a center site . Each dimension site can know about columns in the fact table that correspond to attributes of the dimension table of . The resulting frequent itemsets will be made known to the dimension sites but not to . Each site is not trusted but is semi honest . An example of such a model is in e auction or other commercial transaction processing where the center site functions as a dealer or mediator and the dimension sites are the buyers and sellers .
1 . Round 1 Site determines all the frequent itemsets deter
. Similarly
. at its site , which form the set mines Site quent itemset in computes and sends
. to for each fre
Let us examine what is disclosed to each party in the receives the information such as above . Site from site the content of quent itemsets and therefore this is not extra knowledge . has is allowed to know all fre for the frequent itemset and site
. Site
Site receives for each frequent itemset does not know the contents of information about or and . However , only ’s with their frequencies are knows that a certain set of mapped to some frequent itemset but it is not known what the frequent itemset might be .
. Site or of and
Site
. Site such as is linked to
. It also has the contents of receives the information such as for fre . Alquent itemset does not get the content of a frequent itemset though site directly , we find that it may uncover of site such information in some cases . Consider the running example . Let knows . After Round 4 , site that the and , and knows all the frequent itemsets . If are the only frequent itemsets that contain is a proper subset of
, site correspond to if it happens that and a proper subset of and may find out that of
) . ( . HowHence site , the ever since the knowledge of this mapping does not give extra information about can deduce that and is arbitarily assigned by site to site
.
, computes for each frequent itemset
More Than Two Dimensions : The basic mechanism here can be generalized to cases with more than two dimenand sion tables . Each dimension site finds sends it to all the frequent itemsets in terms of itemset IDs and sends these sets to one of the dimenstion sites . The dimension sites pass among themselves such itemsets and . Again site will not be fill in the contents of notified of the mining results .
. Site
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
5 Empirical Study
The experiment was conducted with Pentium IV 3.2GHz PC with 2GB memory on the Linux platform . All algorithms were implemented in C/C++ . In our experiment , we generated the synthetic data set in the same way as [ 5 ] . The following table shows the default parameter setting we used .
Parameter No . of Dimension Tables/Dimension Sites No . of Trans in the Joined Table/Fact Table No . of Trans in Each Dimension Table No . of Attributes in Each Dimension Table Size of Each Attribute Domain Random Noise Support Threshold
Default Value 2 100K 10K 10 10 50 % 0.01
We adopt the transfer rate of the ADSL [ 1 ] for the estimation of message cost during transmission between different sites . For simplicity , we assume both the upstream and the downstream rate is 128 kilobytes per second ( kB/s ) [ 1 ] . We have conducted the experiments to study the effect of the execution time of our proposed model with four factors ( 1 ) the no . of transactions in the fact table , ( 2 ) the no . of attributes , ( 3 ) the percentage of noise and ( 4 ) the support threshold . The results are shown in Figure 2 . The graphs show the execution time of the Correct but Insecure Mining ( CIM ) and the proposed privacy preserving model ( SF ) . the Semi Honest Model with Fact Table at Site We also varied the maximum size of potentially frequent itemsets in the graphs . We tested two possible values of the maximum size of potentially frequent itemsets : 4 and 6 . For intance , “ Max . Size = 4 ” means the maximum size of potentially frequent itemsets = 4 .
It is trivial to see that the execution time of the models increases when the no . of transactions in the fact table , the no . of attributes in each dimension table or the maximum size of potentially frequent itemsets increases and when the support threshold decreases because the complexity of the models increases .
The execution time of the models increases with the perwhich centage of noise . Suppose there is a local itemset is not frequent but is near to be frequent when the data set is generated without the consideration of noise generation . After more noise is added , there will be a higher chance that will become frequent . In other words , more this itemset noise can create more local frequent itemsets . Thus , the step of combining frequent local itemsets from two sites , , to generate global frequent itemsets such says leads to a longer execution time . In our experias ments , if the default parameters are adopted ( with the percentage of noise equal to 50% ) , on average , there are more than 4000 local frequent itemsets generated . If we change it to 30 % , there are about 3000 local frequent itemsets . and
In all graphs , the execution time of CIM is smaller than that of SF because CIM does not need any message passing .
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
Figure 2 . Graphs of Execution Time against Four Factors
6 Conclusion
In this paper , the problem of privacy preserving frequent pattern mining in a star schema with two dimension sites is addressed . We show that with such a star schema it is possible to make use of semi join for privacy preservation . We have also conducted some experiments to study the efficiency of the proposed models .
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS : This research was supported by the RGC Ear marked Research Grant of HKSAR CUHK 4179/01E , and the Innovation and Tech nology Fund ( ITF ) in the HKSAR [ ITS/069/03 ] . References
[ 1 ] List of device bandwidths . http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/List of device bandwidths .
In
Wikipedia ,
[ 2 ] R . Agrawal , A . Evfimievski , and R . Srikant . Information sharing across private databases . In SIGMOD , 2003 .
[ 3 ] PA Bernstein and D . W . Chiu . Using semi joins to solve relational queries . In
Journal of the ACM , pages 25–40 , 1981 .
[ 4 ] B . Gilburd , A . Schuster , and R . Wolff . k ttp : A new privacy model for large scale distributed environments . In SIGKDD , 2004 .
[ 5 ] EKK Ng , A . Fu , and K . Wang . Association rule mining from stars . In The 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM ) , pages 322–329 , 2002 .
[ 6 ] MT Ozsu and P . Valduriez . Principles of Distributed Database Systems . Pren tice Hall , 1999 .
[ 7 ] J . Vaidya and C . Clifton . Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data . In SIGKDD , 2002 .
