CLUGO : A Clustering Algorithm for Automated Functional Annotations
Based on Gene Ontology
In Yee Lee1,2 , Jan Ming Ho2 , Ming Syan Chen 1
1 Department of Electrical Engineering , National Taiwan University , Taiwan
2 Institute of Information Science , Academia Sinica , Taiwan
E mail : iylee@iissinicaedutw,hoho@iissinicaedutw,mschen@cceentuedutw
Abstract the
We address issue of providing highly informative and comprehensive annotations using information revealed by the structured vocabularies of Gene Ontology ( GO ) . For a target , a set of candidate terms for inferring target properties is collected and form a unique distribution on the GO directed acyclic graph ( DAG ) . We propose a novel ontology based clustering algorithm—CLUGO , which considers GO hierarchical characteristics and the clustering of term distributions . By identifying significant groups in the distributions , CLUGO assigns comprehensive and correct annotations for a target . According to the results of experiments with automated sequence functional a considerable improvement over our previous work— GOMIT in terms of recall while maintaining a similar level of precision . We conclude that given a GO candidate term distribution , CLUGO is an efficient ontology based clustering algorithm for selecting comprehensive and correct annotations . annotations , CLUGO represents
1 . Introduction
Large sequencing databases are being populated with data that gain value only after annotation tasks are performed . Many researchers are promoting using ontology based annotations , since ontologies provide controlled or structural vocabularies that allow for standardized annotation mechanisms . The most famous is Gene Ontology ( GO ) promoted by the Gene Ontology Consortium [ 11 ] . algorithms
To annotate an uncharacterized sequence s , one can use homologue identification ( eg , sequence similarity ) set to sH h h s . Each homologue is a homologue of } { | h H(cid:143 ) Term h of GO terms is associated with a set s that describe the functional properties of h . Let ( cid:94 ) ff Term h T on GO s characteristics , not only the terms in Ts but also the derive fi ff Based h H a
( cid:42 ) fi
|
( cid:143 ) s
. terms inferred from Ts are meaningful for annotating s .
On the GO graph , Ts and its ascendant terms form a unique DAG distribution . The distribution can be analyzed to determine a set Ms of GO terms that best represent ( both precisely and comprehensively ) the properties of s . We refer Ms as the most informative terms . Using Ts ’s distribution on the GO DAG , the CLUGO algorithm identifies a set Ms of terms from Ts that comprehensively and best describes s ’s functions . In our previous work GOMIT [ 8 ] , the primary goal is to select the most representative terms from a group in order to maintain a high level of precision . However , correctly identifying the most significant groups is also important because it improves coverage . We therefore developed ontology based clustering algorithm to further identify significant groups within a candidate term distribution . After clustering and identifying significant clusters , CLUGO uses GOMIT to select the most representative terms of individual clusters , which allows for good adaptability . The CLUGO clustering algorithm also allows for outlier filtering which enhances prediction accuracy .
CLUGO—a novel the considers
For experimentation , we used automated functional annotations to evaluate CLUGO ’s performance . In summary , CLUGO grouping characteristics of a target ’s candidate term distribution to identify significant clusters and to choose a representative GO term for each cluster . The chosen GO terms are the most informative terms and serve as CLUGO ’s automated annotations for a target . Using the same evaluation criteria proposed in [ 8 ] , our results that CLUGO outperforms GOMIT by indicate identifying more comprehensive annotations for a target . accurate and
2 . Related Works
Extensive statistical based efforts have been devoted to retrieving significant GO categories from large GO term sets ( eg , Zhang and Schmoyer ’s
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE to so
GOTM [ 15 ] , Beissbarth and Speed ’s GOstat [ 2 ] , and Zeeberg et al . ’s GOMiner [ 14] ) . On the other hand , Lee et al . [ 9 ] created a system that uses a graph theorybased algorithm the representative biological meanings of gene clusters . identify
These approaches described far address assistance of microarray functional profiling instead of automated annotations . Similar to CLUGO , Khan et al . [ 5 ] interpret GO DAGs to assist automated functional annotations . Joslyn et al . ’s Gene Ontology Categorizer [ 3 ] considers GO in a manner that is similar to our previous efforts [ 7 ] [ 8 ] and to Lee et al . ’s [ 9 ] solution . A more detailed comparison of the above mentioned works and our previous work GOMIT can be found in [ 8 ] .
Very recently , Speer et al . [ 10 ] proposed a memetic clustering algorithm to detect clusters of genes that share similar functions and therefore belong to similar biological processes as defined by GO annotation .
None of the efforts described above addressed the identification of clusters within a GO term distribution . Our effort is therefore distinct in terms of approach and objective . While previous efforts focused on the ranking of candidate GO terms , our goal was to identify significant groups within a GO term distribution in order to achieve higher precision and recall .
3 . Description of the Algorithm
.
ˆ y
ˆ y
, and ˆ t x t(cid:59 ) if ˆxt
For a GO term ˆt and a sequence h , we say that ˆt annotates h ( with respect to the reference database ) if ˆt is associated to h in some existing reference t if ˆxt database ( eg , SwissProt ) . We denote by ˆ t x is a descendant of ˆyt is an ancestor of ˆyt CLUGO is an ontology based clustering algorithm to comprehensively extract a set of most informative GO terms from a set of GO annotations that possibly describe a target . For a target x , let Hx denote the set of sequences from which x ’s GO terms should be inferred , Mx denote the set of terms selected by CLUGO as best and comprehensively describing x and Ox denote the set of x ’s original annotations . To annotate a target x , we first derive from Hx a ) a set Tx of GO terms possibly describing x ( referred to as initial candidate terms ) , and b ) the initial confidence values of terms in Tx ( see Equation 1 below ) .
CLUGO then takes Tx as input and expands it into a set Cx of derived candidate terms ( see Definition 1 below ) with the additional initial confidence values of zero . CLUGO then identifies the significant groups in Cx , eliminate the noise , and assign terms having
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE a representative for each group . Finally , CLUGO derives Mx based on the representatives of all groups . Methods to derive Tx vary depending on the target ’s type . In this work , we use automated sequence functional annotations to demonstrate CLUGO ’s applicability . Therefore , we will assume here that the target is an uncharacterized sequence s . To derive Ts , we first use a homologue identification algorithm together with reference databases DB to derive a set of s ’s homologues Hs={ |h h ( cid:143 ) DB and h is a ˆ ˆ h H t t homologue of annotates ,{ | annotates h } . h } ( cid:135 ) , we can derive Definition 1 [ 8 ] specifies the term distribution used to annotate a target : Definition 1 : For a target x , the set Cx of candidate terms includes all Tx terms and their ancestor terms . ff ( cid:143 ) s ˆ ˆ t t { | s } . Since
( cid:42 ) h H ff ( cid:143 )
T s s
In order to measure a candidate term ’s quality , we assigned each candidate term an initial confidence value that is determined by a ) the similarity and b ) the number of the sequence(s ) in Hx that it annotates . Definition 2 : For a target x , each candidate term ˆc t , which is initially affected by the summation of the similarity ( to x ) of each sequence in Hx that is annotated using ˆct .
C(cid:143 ) is given a confidence value ff fiˆ CV t x c i x x x
( cid:59 )
ˆ t i i i
C
( cid:170 ) ( cid:171 ) ( cid:171 ) ( cid:171 ) ( cid:171)(cid:172 ) let
( 1 )
ˆ t T ( cid:143 ) x
ˆ t annotated by
( cid:94 ) ˆ ˆ t t | i
) , where
ˆ t C T ( cid:143 ) x
, then initially , the derived Tx , similarity h x ( ,
ˆ T t , ( cid:143 ) x ( cid:166 ) h H ff ( cid:143 ) 0 , where
For a given Hx and T ( cid:137 ) x ff fi ˆ CV t ff fi ˆ CV t GOMIT [ 8 ] adopts a quantitative model based on the propagation of CVi between terms having paternal relationships . Finally , each term in Cx is assigned a confidence value CV and terms with the highest confidence values are selected as the most informative . However , simply considering confidence value rankings the most informative terms . A good approach is to identify clusters within select representative terms from the each cluster so that the selected term set characterizes all properties of such a distribution . the distribution and inadequate for identifying
CLUGO is an ontology based clustering algorithm designed for identifying clusters within a candidate term distribution and selecting representative terms from individual clusters to annotate the properties of a target . It involves the following steps : 1 . Determine the pairwise distance between two terms to is for obtaining a similarity matrix for all Cx terms .
2 . Cluster the term distribution based on the similarity matrix .
3 . Find the best clustering . 4 . Determine a representative term for each cluster , all representatives form a set of the most informative terms for a target .
5 . Annotate the target using the set of most informative terms .
We now discuss each step in detail . 3.1 Step1 : Obtaining the similarity matrix
In order to obtain a similarity matrix , we define two terms’ pairwise distance as follows [ 8 ] : Definition 3 : We define the distance between two ff fi ˆ,x ˆ dist t t nodes on GO as the minimum number of y and ˆyt edges between ˆxt
.
Given a candidate term distribution Cx whose Tx has n terms , we derived ( based on Definition 3 ) a distance matrix having n n values . From the distance matrix , we then derive a similarity matrix according to the following equation : ff fi ˆ ˆ , t Sim t i ˆ ˆ dist t t ( , i ff 1 ˆ t ) is the distance between i
1 ˆ ˆ dist t t ( , i
, where
ˆ t and ffi
. fi
) j j j j
3.2 Step 2 : Clustering We use CLUTO [ 6 ] to perform single linkage hierarchical clustering based on the obtained similarity matrix . The scluster program is used to cluster a collection of objects into a predetermined number of clusters k . Given a distribution , we perform clusterings of a range of k depending on the distribution size . 3.3 Step 3 : Refinement Step 3 1 : Cluster quality evaluation .
We use the silhouette coefficient [ 4 ] to evaluate the cluster quality and to identify a distribution ’s optimal k ( from Step 2 ) . The average silhouette coefficient s' value ranges between 1 and 1 ; higher values indicate better clustering quality . CLUGO selects the clustering having the greatest s' value ; however , if no clustering has an s' value greater than 0.25 [ 4 ] , CLUGO considers the distribution to contain no clusters and uses GOMIT directly for annotation generation ( See Section 34 ) Step 3 2 : Clustering refinement .
A sequence typically has no more than three functions ; however , CLUGO ’s selected clustering may exceed that number , suggesting the need to merge clusters . We therefore developed a merging scheme for clustering refinement . We merge two clusters if their
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE nearest members have a distance below some threshold . We observed an optimal threshold of 4 for our application . Step 3 3 : Noise reduction .
Given an unannotated sequence s , not all the terms in Ts are associated with an actual property of s .
We first define the weight for a cluster :
Definition 4 : The weight of a cluster Ui is the summation of the initial confidence value of each member ( term ) in Ui .
Weight U ( i
)
ˆ CV t ( i j
)
( cid:166 )
ˆ t U ( cid:143 ) j i
Given a clustering U={U0,U1,,Un} , we define
Related_Weight(Ui ) as : Related Weight U (
_ i
)
Weight U ( ) i ff Max Weight U ( Uj U ( cid:143 ) threshold Th R
ThR
) j fi and define )i then _ In this automated
We if then Ui is considered an Related Weight U ( functional annotation outlier . application , we had obtained a ThR =2 , which is the optimal value , using a training method . 3.4 Step 4 and 5 : Annotation to select
CLUGO uses GOMIT cluster representatives . For this application , we chose two representatives for each cluster , which is identical to our choosing two highest valued terms in our previous GOMIT experiment [ 8 ] . The union of each cluster ’s the most chosen representative informative the biological properties of a target with both high precision and recall . terms , which describe is considered as
4 . Experiment
In our experiments , S is a set of sequences for the functional annotation application . Each sequence S(cid:143 ) is originally annotated with a set Os of GO s terms , Ms is the set of most informative terms chose by CLUGO . For a sequence s , precision and recall is used to compare Ms and Os and to reflect CLUGO ’s accuracy . Precision : We define precision as the percentage of CLUGO ’s annotations that matches the real ones . ˆ ˆ t t and dist( , o and
) |
( cid:143 )
( cid:100 )
S s
)
( cid:94 ) ˆ t s ( ,
1 and ( cid:94 ) ˆ t s ( ,
ˆ t M ( cid:143 ) ) | s s ( cid:143 )
ˆ t O ( cid:143 ) o s ˆ t M and ( cid:143 )
S s
Precision
Recall : We defined recall as the percentage of Os matched by Ms . It reflects the percentage of the real annotations that were matched by CLUGO . Formally ,
1
( cid:94 ) ( e
, s
) | s
( cid:100 )
S
,
ˆ t
)
( cid:143 )
ˆ t o
ˆ t o
R call and S
ˆ t M and dist( ( cid:143 ) s
ˆ O and t ( cid:143 ) s o
ˆ O and t ( cid:143 ) s o ( cid:94 ) ˆ s s t ) | , ( ( cid:143 ) o To derive Cs , we implemented a homologuediscovering algorithm which uses BLAST [ 1 ] to search for similarities among organism sequences collected from SwissProt [ 13 ] . We used the same BLAST parameters as our first experiment in GOMIT [ 8 ] , and for our original test set we also used the dataset from GOMIT ’s first experiment , which is a set of 3,283 sequences of the Saccharomyces Genome Database ( SGD ) [ 12 ] . GO annotations associated with the SGD sequences were also taken from the Gene Ontology website . We then evaluated CLUGO ’s performance based on precision and recall . When adopting ThR=2 ( derived from training ) , CLUGO yielded a precision of 0.65 and a recall of 076 This implies that 76 % of the annotations in SGD were correctly predicted by CLUGO , and each CLUGO annotation has a confidence of 0.65 of being successful .
Compared to GOMIT ( using the same dataset ) , CLUGO showed a 6 % improvement in recall while maintaining the same level of precision . Using the same criteria , we showed in a previous effort [ 8 ] that GOMIT exhibits better or comparable performance to the algorithms ELCA , EHOM , and GoFigure [ 5 ] . These results suggest that CLUGO can predict accurate yet more comprehensive annotations over the other algorithms .
5 . Conclusion
We used this paper to describe a novel ontologybased clustering algorithm—CLUGO , for discovering groups of GO terms by analyzing term distributions on a GO DAG . Using the representatives of the identified clusters , CLUGO can identify informative terms that best describe the biological properties of a target ( eg sequence ) with high precision and recall . We demonstrated GLUGO ’s applicability using a real and important application—automated functional annotation on the SGD dataset . Using criteria recall and precision to compare with other approaches , CLUGO proved more capable of assigning comprehensive and precise annotations for a sequence . biological
Due to its adaptive design , CLUGO is not only annotation applicable addressed in this paper , but also to other applications involving the identification of a set of most important nodes from a distribution on an ontology . automated functional to
Acknowledgements
Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM’05 )
1550 4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE
The work was supported in part by the National Science Council of Taiwan , ROC , under Contracts NSC93 2752 E 002 006 PAE and NSC93 3112 B001 018 Y .
References
[ 1 ] Altschul , SF , Gish , W . , Miller , W . , Myers , EW , and Lipman , DJ “ Basic local alignment search tool , ” J Mol Biol , 215(3 ) , pp . 403–10 , 1990 .
[ 2 ] Beissbarth T . , Speed TP , “ GOstat : find statistically overrepresented Gene Ontologies within a group of genes . ” Bioinformatics , 20(9 ) , pp . 1464 5 , 2004 . Joslyn CA , Mniszewski SM , Fulmer A . , Heaton G . , “ The Gene Ontology Categorizer , ” Bioinformatics , v . 20:s1 , pp . 169 177 , 2004 .
[ 4 ] Kaufman L . , Rousseeuw R . , ” Finding Groups in Data , ”
[ 3 ]
Wiley , New York , 1990 .
[ 5 ] Khan S . , Situ G . , Decker K . , Schmidt CJ , “ GoFigure : automated Gene Ontology annotation , ” Bioinformatics , Dec 12;19(18 ) , pp . 2484 5 , 2003 .
[ 6 ] Karypis G . et al . , “ CLUTO : Software package for clustering high dimensional datasets , ” http://wwwuserscsumnedu/~karypis/cluto/
[ 7 ] Lee IY , Ho JM , Lin WC , “ An algorithm for generating representative functional annotations based on Gene Ontology , ” Proc . DEXA Workshops , pp . 10 15 , 2003 .
[ 8 ] Lee IY , Ho JM , Chen M . S . , “ GOMIT : A Generic and Adaptive Annotation Algorithm Based on Gene Ontology Term Distributions , ” IEEE fifth Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering , 2005 .
[ 9 ] Lee SG , Hur JU , Kim YS , “ A graph theoretic modeling on GO space for biological interpretation of gene clusters , ” Bioinformatics , 20(3 ) , pp . 381 8 , 2004 . [ 10 ] Speer N . , Spieth C . , Zell A . , “ a memetic clustering algorithm for the functional partition of genes based on on the Computational Intelligence in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology , 2004 .
Symposium ontology , ”
[ 11 ] The Gene Ontology Consortium , “ Creating the gene implementation , ” resource : design and ontology Genome Res 11 , pp . 1425 1433 .
IEEE gene
[ 12 ] The Saccharomyces Genome Database : http://wwwyeastgenomeorg/
[ 13 ] The UniProt/Swiss Prot Protein Knowledgebase . http://wwwebiacuk/swissprot/
[ 14 ] Zeeberg BR , Feng W . , Wang G . , Wang MD , Fojo AT , Sunshine M . , Narasimhan S . , Kane DW , Reinhold WC , Lababidi S . , Bussey KJ , Riss J . , Barrett JC , Weinstein JN , “ GoMiner : a resource for biological interpretation of genomic and proteomic data , ” Genome Biol . 4(4 ) , pp . R28 , 2003 .
[ 15 ] Zhang B . , Schmoyer D . , Kirov S . , Snoddy J . , “ GOTree Machine for interpreting sets of interesting genes using Gene Ontology hierarchies , ” BMC Bioinformatics , 5(1 ) , pp . 16 , 2004 . a web based platform
( GOTM ) :
