Finding Time Critical Responses for Information Seeking in Social Media
Suhas Ranganath∗ , Suhang Wang∗ , Xia Hu † , Jiliang Tang ‡ and Huan Liu ∗
∗Arizona State University , †Texas A&M University , ‡ Yahoo! Labs
Email : {suhas.ranganath , suhang.wang , huanliu}@asuedu , hu@csetamuedu , jlt@yahoo inc.com buried among them making it difficult for potential responders to find them in proper time . The potential responders have to sift through many tweets in their timeline , thus delaying the response . Existing frameworks [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] only identify users who can provide relevant responses and do not consider timeliness . Designing algorithmic frameworks to identify responders who can provide timely and relevant answers will provide prompt assistance to the askers . This can be used to notify potential responders to increase the chances of a quick response .
Abstract—Social media is being increasingly used to request information and help in situations like natural disasters , where time is a critical commodity . However , generic social media platforms are not explicitly designed for timely information seeking , making it difficult for users to obtain prompt responses . Algorithms to ensure prompt responders for questions in social media have to understand the factors affecting their response time . In this paper , we draw from sociological studies on information seeking and organizational behavior to model the future availability and past response behavior of the candidate responders . We integrate these criteria with their interests to identify users who can provide timely and relevant responses to questions posted in social media . We propose a learning algorithm to derive optimal rankings of responders for a given question . We present questions posted on Twitter as a form of information seeking activity in social media . Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed framework is useful in identifying timely and relevant responders for questions in social media .
Keywords Timely Information , Q&A , Situational Awareness
I . INTRODUCTION
The advent of social media has enabled users to request , publish and discuss information on several important events in real time . Owing to these properties of social media , it has emerged as an attractive source of real time information during natural disasters , social unrest , and political crises , where timeliness of information is a critical requirement . There has been considerable interest in the use of social media for information seeking and providing responses during natural calamities like Hurricane Sandy , Typhoon Haiyan , and Haiti Hurricane in recent literature [ 1 ] .
A few examples of requests published in the social media platform Twitter during emergency situations are illustrated in Fig 1(a ) . The first example illustrates the use of social media for gathering information during emergencies and the asker requests information regarding a possible tsunami in Bangladesh as a consequence of Indonesian earthquake of 2012 . The second example shows a user requesting for help during emergencies and the asker seeks assistance for rehabilitation for a victim of Hurricane Sandy . The third example shows the use of social media in reaching out to calamity victims and the asker inquiries about volunteer opportunities during the recent earthquake in Nepal . These queries showcase the use of social media for information seeking during emergencies , and they require timely and relevant responses to satisfy the askers .
However , generic social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook are not designed to facilitate timely information seeking , making it difficult for users to obtain prompt responses for their requests [ 2 ] . Millions of posts are published during emergencies and information seeking posts will be
This task presents several challenges . First , it is difficult to estimate the time taken by a user to reply to a question in social media as characteristics affecting the response time are not precisely known . Second , timeliness is a distinct entity than relevance , and algorithmic frameworks need to integrate these entities to identify responders who can give timely and relevant responses to a particular question . Finally , each question can have several candidate responders , each of them having a large amount information associated with them , leading to significant issues of scalability .
We take inspiration from sociological studies on information seeking and organizational behavior to identify characteristics affecting timeliness of the answers to questions in social media . A study on the motivations of information seeking behavior in social media [ 5 ] identifies free time as one of the important factors for a social media user to respond to a question . The response time of a user to a question can be related to his future availability on the platform after the question is posted . The self consistency theory [ 6 ] states that people perform tasks in a manner consistent with their previous instances of performing related tasks . Therefore , the response time of a user for a given question can be related to his response times to previous related questions .
In this paper , we propose a framework to identify automatically responders who can provide timely and relevant responses to questions in social media by modeling and integrating their future availability , response patterns to related questions and interests . Specifically , we answer the following questions : How do we model the temporal patterns of the candidate responders to rank them according to the estimated timeliness of response ? How do we integrate temporal patterns with user interests to identify users who can provide timely and relevant responses to a given question ?
The primary contributions of the work are • Formally defining the problem of identifying users who can provide timely and relevant responses to questions in social media ,
• Proposing an algorithmic framework to integrate timeliness and relevance for identifying responders to ques
Figure 1 . and relevant responses to questions in social media .
( a ) Examples of questions asked in social media during emergencies ( b ) The proposed framework to identify responders who provide timely
( a )
( b ) tions in social media , and
• Presenting experimental evaluations of the framework on a real world dataset of questions in social media .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . In Section II , we formally define the problem statement . We present the designed framework in Section III . In Section IV , we employ a real world dataset to evaluate the framework . We describe existing literature in Section V . We conclude and explore possible future directions in Section VI .
II . PROBLEM STATEMENT ij . i,j X2
In this section , we present notations used in the paper , describe a few relevant terms and formally present the problem statement . Boldface uppercase letters ( eg X ) denote matrices , boldface lowercase letters ( eg x ) denote vectors , and calligraphic uppercase letters ( eg X ) denote a set . The notation 1 x indicates a vector whose elements are the reciprocal of each element of the vector x . Xij signifies the element in the ith row and jth column of matrix X and xi denotes the ith element of vector x . We denote the Frebonius norm of a matrix X as ||X||F = The terms related to proposed framework are illustrated in Fig 1(b ) . From Fig 1(b ) , let q ∈ R1×wQ denote the question word frequency vector of q for which we want to identify responders , where Q is the set of questions and wQ is the total number of words in Q . We further denote tq as the time when the question q is posted . Let the total set of candidate responders for each question q be Uq = {U1 , U2 , U3 , , Unq} , where nq is the total number of candidate responders for question q , and U denote the union of candidate responders of all the questions for which we want to identify the responders . We first define the terms related to the timeliness of the response to the question q . For each user u ∈ Uq , we define the posting time vector tu . This the vector containing the time of his previous postings with length equal to the total number of posts he made . The previous question matrix of the user u is represented as Pu ∈ Rou×wQ , where ou is the number of questions he answered previously . The set Q contains both the candidate questions for which we want to identify responders and the previous questions answered by the users in U . Each row of Pu contains the question word vector of a previous question answered by the user u . We denote the time taken by the user to reply to the previous questions by the reply time vector rtu ∈ Rou×1 . We next define the terms related to the relevance of the candidate user u to the given question q . Let the user word vector of the user u be denoted as ku ∈ R1×wU , where wU is the total number of words used by users in U . Let M be the set of words used by all the users . Each element in the vector ku contains the frequency of each word in M in the status messages of user u . We define the adjacency matrix N ∈ RN×N of the social connections of users in U as if Ui connects to Uj , i = j ; Ui , Uj ∈ U , fl1
Nij =
0 , otherwise where N is the total number of users in U . The connection vector of each user is obtained from the corresponding row of the network adjacency matrix N . Finally , the relevance of the given answer is denoted by a positive acknowledgment from the asker , like a “ favorite ” or a reply with “ thanks ” . Given these notations , we formally present the problem statement as Given a question q , the question word vector q , a set of candidate responders Uq for the question , the posting time vector tu , the previous question matrix Pu , the reply time vector rtu , the user word vector ku , and the social connection matrix N , identify people in Uq who provide timely and relevant answers .
III . THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK
In this section , we present a framework that identifies responders who can provide timely and relevant responses to questions in social media . We first describe the ranking criterion and present quantitative models for identifying users who provide timely and relevant responders . A learning algorithm is then proposed to learn optimally the parameters of the ranking criterion along with the time complexity analysis . A . Modeling Timeliness
We are inspired by the sociological studies in information seeking [ 5 ] and organizational behavior [ 6 ] to model characteristics of users determining the timeliness of their responses for a given question . We are motivated by [ 5 ] to postulate that after a question is posted , the sooner a candidate responder is active on the platform , the faster can be his response to the question . We postulate from response consistency [ 6 ] that the response time of the user for the given question is proportional to his response time to questions related to it . Next , we describe these notions in detail and present ways to model them .
We first present a model to rank the candidate responders according to their future availability . For each question q posted at time tq , we take the posting time vector tu of each candidate user up to tq , taking posting as a measure of his activity on the platform . The rank of a user is inversely proportional to the estimated time after tq at which he is active on the platform . Therefore , fa(q , u ) =
1 u − tq test
,
( 1 ) where fa(q , u ) is the ranking score of candidate user u for question q and test u is the time at which he posts in the platform after tq as estimated from his posting time vector tu . We predict test u with a nonlinear autoregressive neural network with a single hidden layer [ 7 ] on the posting time vector tu . The lower the estimated difference between estimated future availability and the question time , the higher the ranking score of candidate user u is .
We next rank the candidate responders according to their past response behavior to related questions . To represent the relationship between the given question and the previous questions answered by the user u , we transform the corresponding question word vectors into a common latent dimension space using S ∈ Rn×wQ . Here n is the number of dimensions of the space ( n wQ ) . The representation of the given question q in the low dimensional space is then given by qST and the representation of the previous questions answered by the user u is given PuST . We linearly transform the question representation using Tu ∈ Rn×n to incorporate user specific context and represent its relationship to the T . previous question answered by the user as qSTTuSPu The ranking function can then be computed as fp(q , u ) = qSTTuSPu
T 1 rtu
,
( 2 ) where rtu is the time taken by user u to answer the previous questions . The ranking score fp(q , u ) is higher if the user u has promptly answered questions having a close relationship with question q in the past . The overall ranking criterion according to timeliness of reply is given by ft(q , u ) = fa(q , u ) + αfp(q , u ) , where α controls the amount of contribution from the past response behavior of the user to related questions .
B . Modeling Relevance
To model the relevance of a user to a given question , we compute the relationship between the content of the given question and the interests of the user . The nearer the question with the interest of the user , the greater can be his relevance to the question . We obtain the interests of the user from his user word vector ku and represent it in a shared low dimensional space with the question word vector q . Let V ∈ Rn×wU be the latent dimension representation of the user content , where n is the number of dimensions of the space and wU is the total number of words used by the set of candidate responders ( n wU ) . The representation of the question q in the low dimensional space is then given by qS and the representation of user u is given by kuVT . The representation of the question q and the user u in the latent dimension space can have different contexts . Therefore , we compute their relationship after linearly transforming the question representation to the user domain by using Tu ∈ Rn×n . The relevance of the user , u to the question q , is then computed as fr(q , u ) = qSTTuVkT u .
( 3 )
The overall ranking criterion can be obtained by integrating the ranking scores fa(q , u ) , fp(q , u ) and fr(q , u ) . It is therefore computed as f(q , u ) = fa(q , u ) + αfp(q , u ) + βfr(q , u ) , where α controls the amount of contribution from the past response behavior to related questions and β controls the amount of contribution from the relevance to the overall ranking criterion . The higher the candidate responders’ estimated timeliness of response and relevance to the question , the higher is the score computed by f(q , u ) .
C . Learning Latent Parameters
[ 8 ] loss is defined as errWARP = K is be computed as rankUi(f ( qi ) ) =
We now present a learning algorithm to compute the latent matrices S , Tu and V for optimal ordering of the candidate responders . Let us assume we have a training set X of K training instances X = {(qi , Ui , rUi)}i=1,2,,K where qi belongs to the set of training questions , Ui ∈ Uqi is a user in the set of candidate responders of qi who has responded to it and rUi is the time taken by Ui to answer the question . We define the vector f ( q ) containing the predicted scores for all the candidate responders for question q . The element of ¯f ( q ) related to Ui is denoted by f ( q , Ui ) . In order to obtain an optimal ranking order for the candidate responders , we need to penalize the function when the users who have responded to the question are ranked low by the ranking criterion . The Weighted Approximate Rank Pairwise ( WARP ) i=1 L(rankUi(¯f ( qi) ) ) Here , rankUi(f ( qi ) ) is a marginal ranking criterion which I[1 + f(qi , b ) ≥ f(qi , Ui ) ] where I(x ) is the indicator function which is 1 if x is true or 0 if it is false and b ∈ Uqi is a member of the set of candidate responders of qi who has not responded to the question . The pair {Ui , b} is known as the violating pair if 1 + f(qi , b ) ≥ ¯f(qi , Ui ) . The ranking function assigns to each pair a cost if the ranking score of b is larger or within a margin of 1 from the ranking score of Ui . The WARP loss function is therefore the penalty imposed when Ui is ranked within a certain margin or below a negative example b . L transforms i=1 ai . Here a1 ≥ a2 ≥ a3 ≥ ak ≥ 0 , with the values of ai determining the additional penalty for each successive reduction in rank . A choice of ar = 1/r , gives a larger penalty to the top position and provides a smooth weighting over different positions [ 9 ] . b=Ui the rank into a loss and is defined as L(k ) =k
In addition to the WARP loss , we increase the error penalty in proportion to the timeliness and relevance of the response given by Ui in the violating pair . We weigh the
Pick a random labeled example ( qi , Ui , rUi ) Compute f ( q , Ui ) k=0 do
Algorithm 1 : Finding Time Critical Responses in Social Media Input : Training examples X = {(qi , Ui , rUi )}i=1,2,,N , Uqi qi ∈ Q Output : Trained values of latent matrices S , V and Tu 1 : Initialize S , V , TU randomly 2 : do 3 : 4 : 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : 9 : 10 : while 1 + f ( q , b ) < f ( q , Ui ) or k ≤ size(Uqi ) − 1 11 : Minimize f by updating S , V , TUi , Tb 12 : 13 : while errweighted does not converge
Randomly pick a negative example b ,b ∈ Uq Compute f ( q , b ) k=k+1
Substitute update matrices in f
WARP loss as errweighted =
N
( 1 + i=1
1 rUi
)(relUi)L(rankUi(¯f ( qi)) ) ,
( 4 ) where rUi is the response time of Ui and relUi is 1 if the reply given by the positive example is accepted as relevant by the asker of qi and 0 otherwise .
Calculating the exact rank is computationally expensive [ 10 ] and we therefore approximate by sampling . We compute the stochastic gradient approach to minimize the error , choosing at each iteration a single training instance randomly from the training set X . We compute the ranking score of Ui , f ( qi , Ui ) . We then randomly select users from Uqi who have not replied to the question qi and compute the ranking score for each of them until we find a violating pair ie 1 + f(qi , b ) ≥ f(qi , Ui ) , b ∈ Uqi . If L steps are required to find a pairwise violation , then the approximate value of the term rankUi(¯f ( qi ) ) is given by rankUi(¯f ( qi ) ) = |Uqi| − 1
,
( 5 ) where |Uqi| indicates the size of the candidate set Uqi and . denotes the floor function . The single instance objective becomes [ 10 ]
L
)(relUi)L(|Uqi| − 1 fr = ( 1 +
).|1 − f(qi , Ui ) + f(qi , b)| . ( 6 ) We introduce regularization terms that consider social connections and overfitting . The theory of network homogeneity [ 11 ] suggests that people connected to each other display similar interests and affiliations . Therefore , we have the following regularization error
1 rUi
L fsocreg =
||σ(kUi VTVkT
Uj
) − 1||2 .
( 7 ) j:Nij=1
We constrain the magnitude of the elements of matrices S,V,and TUi to reduce overfitting . The final objective function is then defined as follows f = fr + wsfsocreg + γ1||S||2 ( 8 ) We optimize the objective function through gradient descent to obtain the update values for the latent matrices S,V , TUi and Tb . We repeat the procedure by randomly selecting a training instance until the error converges which we test using a validation set . We summarize the learning
F + γ3||TUi||2 F .
F + γ2||V||2
Parameter # of Candidate Questions # of Askers # of Respondents # of Negative Examples # of Candidate Respondents # of Tweets by Candidate Respondents # of Network Connections # of Previous Questions Answered
Statistics 1191 1158 2877 40177 43064 26911778 812817 572202
DATASET CONTAINING QUESTIONS POSTED IN TWITTER .
Table I algorithm in Algorithm 1 . We substitute the values of the latent matrices and compute the scores for the questions in the test set . For each question q , we order the set of candidate responders Uq according to the scores and return the ranked list .
IV . EXPERIMENTS
In this section , we describe the dataset and experiments . We aim to answer the following questions : How effective is the framework for identifying the users who provide timely answers to questions in social media ? How effective is it in integrating timeliness and relevance in identifying responders for questions in social media ? We next describe the dataset and then proceed to answer these questions later .
A . Dataset
The statistics of the dataset is described in Table I . We collected the questions posted on the social networking platform Twitter during Hurricane Sandy using keywords and hashtags related to the events collected using [ 12 ] . The earliest question in the dataset is posted on October 24th , 2012 and the latest question is posted on November 27th , 2012 . For each question , we collected the text , user information and the timestamp of its replies and assigned the users who replied as the positive examples . We assigned the users who are posting on the same keywords and hashtags related to Hurricane Sandy within a day of the question being posted but have not replied to the questions as negative examples . We use up to 1000 negative examples per question , and each negative example can be used for multiple questions . The positive and negative examples for each question q are jointly considered as the set of candidate responders Uq . We collected the tweets , times of tweets posted , network connections and previous questions answered by the candidate responders to construct q , ku , tu , P , rtu and N as defined in Section II .
B . Experiment Settings
We evaluate the proposed framework and the baselines with Mean Reciprocal Rank ( MRR ) , Mean Average of Precision ( MAP ) , Non Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) . We present some alternative baselines to compare our framework with related methods .
• Random Selection : We randomly order the candidate responders for each question and aggregate the rankings obtained by repeating over 100 iterations .
Method Random Nandi et al [ 13 ] Future Availability Mahmud et al [ 14 ] Past Response Our Model
MRR MAP@10 1.39 % 0.12 % 2.20 % 1.01 % 4.23 % 3.21 % 6.06 % 3.76 % 4.45 % 8.01 % 6.76 % 10.53 %
NDCG@10 0.60 % 2.29 % 5.40 % 6.07 % 8.92 % 14.66 %
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK IN RANKING TIMELY
Table II
RESPONDERS .
• Future Availability : This computes ranking scores considering only the future availability of the responder ( α = 0 and β = 0 ) .
• Nandi et al . [ 13 ] : The authors built a probabilistic model to combine temporal features and content metrics to rank candidate responders .
• Mahmud et al . [ 14 ] : It proposes a supervised learning approach by learning features on the users’ posting times and replying time to previous questions .
• Past Response : This baseline computes ranking scores only considering information related only to the past response behavior to the previous questions .
• Relevance : This baseline computes ranking scores from information related to relevance of the user to the candidate questions .
C . Identifying Timely Responders
We first evaluate the effectiveness of the framework in identifying users providing timely responses . We select 60 % of the questions in the dataset presented in Table I for training and the rest for testing . As we are concentrating on identifying timely responders in this experiment , we choose . We illustrate the results of the β = 0 and wi = 1 + 1 rUi evaluation in Table II and make the following observations . The random ordering of users gives a weak performance of less than 1 % precision demonstrating the difficulty of the problem . The probabilistic model by Nandi et al . [ 13 ] captures the daily and weekly temporal variations in the posting of the candidate responders performs better than random , showing the potential of temporal patterns in identifying timely responders . The improvement of “ Future Availability ” demonstrates the utility of estimating future user behavior in identifying timely responders to questions in social media . The improved performance of [ 14 ] indicates the utility of response times from previous questions and supervised models for our task . “ Past Response ” , which models the relationship between the given question and the previous questions answered by the candidate user , considerably outperforms the baseline methods . This demonstrates the utility of giving greater prominence to previous related questions and the effectiveness of the framework in learning the relationships between them . Finally , integrating future availability significantly improves the performance demonstrating its additional utility in identifying timely responders for a given question . We performed a paired t test to compare with the baselines and the results showed the improvements are significant .
Method Random Nandi et al [ 13 ] Mahmud et al [ 14 ] Relevance Our Model
MRR MAP@10 0.38 % 0.14 % 1.13 % 3.67 % 3.61 % 4.86 % 4.78 % 7.24 % 11.85 % 5.42 %
NDCG@10 0.30 % 2.29 % 3.75 % 8.52 % 11.47 %
PERFORMANCE OF THE FRAMEWORK IN RANKING RESPONDERS
Table III
PROVIDING TIMELY AND RELEVANT RESPONSES
In summary , from the results in Table II , we can say that our framework is effective in identifying timely responders for a given question in social media . The results also demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed ranking criterion and the learning framework for modeling and integrating the crucial information required for the problem . D . Timely and Relevant Responders
We now evaluate the performance of the framework in identifying responders who can provide both timely and relevant answers to questions in social media . We employ the procedure described in Algorithm 1 for training and substitute the obtained latent matrices for scoring the questions and the candidate responders in the test set . For each question , we rank the candidate responders and evaluate the position of the relevant responders in the rank list . The results of the experiment is presented in Table III , and we make the following observations .
From the table , we can see that the performance of random ordering is low demonstrating the difficulty of the problem . The performance of [ 13 ] improves upon the random performance show the utility of modeling relevance for identifying responders for our task . The difference between the supervised framework in [ 14 ] and [ 13 ] and is considerably lesser than in Table II . This low difference might be because [ 14 ] models only the temporal behavior of candidate responders and does not model their relevance to the question . The performance of “ Relevance ” , which considers only the relevance terms described in Section III B improves the performance of baselines . Our framework considerably outperforms existing baselines with a significant margin demonstrating its effectiveness in integrating information related to future availability , previous response patterns and relevance in identifying responders who provide timely and relevant answers . We performed a paired t test to compare the results with the baselines that showed the improvement is significant . We vary the values of α and β with different values between 0 and 1 and find that the framework is robust to parameter variation .
In summary , we can say from Table II and III that our framework is effective in identifying responders who provide timely and relevant answers . The results also demonstrate the ability of the framework to integrate effectively information crucial for the problem .
V . RELATED WORK
Information seeking in social media has received considerable attention in research communities . An analytical study of the primary motivations for information seeking and replying in Twitter is presented in [ 5 ] . The factors affecting the quantity and speed of the responses [ 15 ] are studied and these mainly related this to question characteristics such as phrasing and posting time . The ability of users to evaluate useful information in social media is explored in [ 16 ] , [ 17 ] . We use the insights in these works to collect the ground truth for helpful answers . These papers give interesting information to the question answering process in social media , but here we focus on identifying responders to these questions .
Recently , systems have been proposed to identify responders for questions in social media . Search architectures with empirical models to route questions to responders using social information are discussed in [ 3 ] . A system for recommending users who can answer questions in social media [ 14 ] models temporal , behavioral and content related factors to identify suitable users . Our framework is different from these in that we can identify users who can provide both timely and relevant responses to a given question posted in social media .
A related line of research is the study of community Q&A systems like Yahoo! Answers [ 18 ] . Methods for identifying suitable responders for a question use link structure and topic sensitive page rank [ 19 ] . The temporal behavior of users of community Q&A platforms , such as factors affecting response time [ 20 ] , have been recently studied . However , these papers do not explicitly identify users who provide timely and relevant responses to a given question .
VI . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
Online social media provides a new platform for people seeking information during emergencies and natural disasters in real time . Questions in social media represent a form of information seeking behavior of users . However , these questions are buried among other posts , impeding social media users from getting timely responses to their questions . We propose a novel framework to identify responders who can provide timely and relevant answers to questions in social media by integrating information related to their future availability , past response behavior and interests . We evaluate the framework on questions in Twitter and demonstrate its effectiveness in identifying users who can provide timely and relevant responses to questions in social media .
This work paves way to many interesting future directions of research . Identifying users who are providing misinformation/answers to questions will help to increase the effectiveness of social media as a quality information source . Study the interactions between people requesting for help and the first responder of the request will help understand how people collaborate on social media platforms , .
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This material is based upon work supported by , or in part by , Office of Naval Research ( ONR ) under grant number N000141410095 .
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Z . Zhao and Q . Mei , “ Questions about questions : An empirical analysis of information needs on twitter , ” in WWW , 2013 , pp . 1545–1556 .
[ 2 ] S . A . Paul , L . Hong , and E . H . Chi , “ Is twitter a good place for asking questions ? a characterization study , ” in ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 3 ] D . Horowitz and S . D . Kamvar , “ The anatomy of a large scale social search engine , ” in WWW , 2010 .
[ 4 ] S . Ranganath , J . Tang , X . Hu , H . Sundaram , and H . Liu , “ Leveraging social foci for information seeking in social media , ” in AAAI , 2015 .
[ 5 ] M . R . Morris , J . Teevan , and K . Panovich , “ What do people ask their social networks , and why ? : a survey study of status message q&a behavior , ” in CHI , 2010 .
[ 6 ] A . K . Korman , “ Toward an hypothesis of work behavior . ” Journal of Applied Psychology , vol . 54 , no . 1p1 , p . 31 , 1970 .
[ 7 ] G . P . Zhang and M . Qi , “ Neural network forecasting for seasonal and trend time series , ” European journal of operational research , vol . 160 , no . 2 , pp . 501–514 , 2005 .
[ 8 ] J . Weston , C . Wang , R . Weiss , and A . Berenzweig , “ Latent collaborative retrieval , ” in ICML , 2012 , pp . 9–16 .
[ 9 ] N . Usunier , D . Buffoni , and P . Gallinari , “ Ranking with ordered weighted pairwise classification , ” in ICML . ACM , 2009 , pp . 1057–1064 .
[ 10 ] J . Weston , S . Bengio , and N . Usunier , “ Large scale image annotation : learning to rank with joint word image embeddings , ” Machine learning , vol . 81 , no . 1 , pp . 21–35 , 2010 .
[ 11 ] P . V . Marsden , “ Homogeneity in confiding relations , ” Social networks , 1988 .
[ 12 ] S . Kumar , G . Barbier , M . A . Abbasi , and H . Liu , “ Tweettracker : An analysis tool for humanitarian and disaster relief . ” in ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 13 ] A . Nandi , S . Paparizos , J . C . Shafer , and R . Agrawal , “ With IEEE , 2013 , pp . a little help from my friends , ” in ICDE . 1288–1291 .
[ 14 ] J . Mahmud , M . Zhou , N . Megiddo , J . Nichols , and C . Drews , “ Optimizing the selection of strangers to answer questions in social media , ” arXiv preprint arXiv:1404.2013 , 2014 .
[ 15 ] J . Teevan , M . R . Morris , and K . Panovich , “ Factors affecting response quantity , quality , and speed for questions asked via social network status messages . ” in ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 16 ] B . Hecht , J . Teevan , M . R . Morris , and D . J . Liebling , “ Searchbuddies : Bringing search engines into the conversation . ” ICWSM , 2012 .
[ 17 ] S . Wang , J . Tang , and H . Liu , “ Toward dual roles of users in recommender systems , ” CIKM , 2015 .
[ 18 ] P . Jurczyk and E . Agichtein , “ Discovering authorities in question answer communities by using link analysis , ” in CIKM , 2007 .
[ 19 ] L . Yang , M . Qiu , S . Gottipati , F . Zhu , J . Jiang , H . Sun , and Z . Chen , “ Cqarank : jointly model topics and expertise in community question answering , ” in CIKM . ACM , 2013 , pp . 99–108 .
[ 20 ] Q . Liu and E . Agichtein , “ Modeling answerer behavior in collaborative question answering systems , ” in Advances in information retrieval . Springer , 2011 , pp . 67–79 .
