D INDEX : a Web Environment for Analyzing
Dependences among Scientific Collaborators
Claudio Schifanella
Università di Torino
Torino , Italy schi@diunitoit Mario Cataldi
École Centrale Paris
Paris , France mariocataldi@ecpfr
Luigi Di Caro
Università di Torino
Torino , Italy dicaro@diunitoit Marie Aude Aufaure
École Centrale Paris
Paris , France marie audeaufaure@ecpfr
ABSTRACT In this work , we demonstrate a web application , available at http://d indexdiunitoit , that permits to analyze the scientific profiles of all the researchers indexed by DBLP1 by focusing on the collaborations that contributed to define their curricula . The presented application allows the user to analyze the profile of a researcher , her dependence degrees on all the co authors ( along her entire scientific publication history ) and to make comparisons among them in terms of dependence patterns . In particular , it is possible to estimate and visualize how much a researcher has benefited from collaboration with another researcher as well as the communities in which she has been involved . Moreover , the application permits to compare , in a single chart , each researcher with all the scientists indexed in DBLP by focusing on their dependences with respect to many other parameters like the total number of papers , the number of collaborations and the length of the scientific careers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Systems Applications ] : On line Information Services ; H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Experimentation
Keywords Scientometrics , DBLP , Collaboration Graph
1wwwinformatikuni trierde/∼ley/db/
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The evaluation of the work of a researcher and its impact on the later literature has been widely studied because of its real and relevant applications , like recruitment , funding allocation , and so forth . With the growing of new on line digital platforms , like DBLP , Google Scholar , Microsoft Academic Search , CiteSeer , etc . , it is becoming easier than ever to explore and experiment ways of evaluating research products thanks to their aggregated information , like co authorships , number of citations and related data . Despite this , even considering these web services , an author ’s publication and/or citation record gives only a partial account of the author ’s scientific profile . Indeed , in an evaluation process some coauthored works can unconditionally favor researchers who collaborated with those experts who were able to lead highquality research projects . On the other hand , those who produced such relevant research products could not be distinguished ( within their pure publication list ) from their coauthors because of the typical assumption of a proportional collaboration among them .
Given these considerations , while many works evaluate the quantity and/or the quality of the research , ( one among all , the h index [ 2 ] and its different variations , a distinct part of the problem involves the study of co authorship dependences , in terms of scientific influence among the authors . The evaluation of such collaboration networks is anyway a challenging task that , to the best of our knowledge , received few interests so far . Some tools like DBLPVis , ArnetMiner or Microsoft Academic Search permit to visualize the academic career of a researcher through her co authorship relations ; however , they only show the relationships among authors based on the number of co authored papers and are not suitable for such a challenging task .
In this paper we demonstrate a way to estimate this dependence degree among co authors and present a set of graphical tools , integrated in the web environment http://dindexdiunitoit , for permitting analyses , comparisons and evaluations of researchers’ dependences .
2 . BACKGROUND : D INDEX
In this paper we make use of a novel measure of dependence between two co authors , presented in [ 1 ] , called dindex , which is calculated based on the co authorship network that represents the common environment they have
1520 At this point , given two authors ai and aj , and their research network N etai,aj , it is possible to compute the dependence degree , d index , of ai on aj by calculating the average dependence of all the scientific collaborations of ai on the contribution of aj . Thus , we calculate the dependence index , d index , of ai on aj , as aj ai = d pai,aj pai
×
Pak ∈N etai ,aj w aj ai,ak
|N etai,aj |
,
( 2 ) where pai,aj is the productivity of ai and aj together ( as before , calculated as the number of papers they co authored together ) and pai is the total productivity of ai .
It is important to notice that , while the first term permits to numerically quantify the impact of this scientific collaboration over the entire bibliographic record of ai , the second term calculates the average of the relative dependences of the scientific collaborations of ai on aj . The formula lies in the range [ 0 , 1 ] as well . The higher the value of the d index , the higher the scientific dependence of ai on the collaboration aj ; in fact , even if their with aj . Please notice that d scientific network is the same ( N etai,aj = N etaj ,ai ) , their relative dependences on the co authors can significantly differ , since they are based on their personal collaborations . aj ai 6= dai
Now , given an author ai and her list of d index values related to her co authors , we can also calculate her overall dependence coefficient as her dependence degree on the set of co authors on whom she resulted more dependent . In a sense , we aim to quantify how much a researcher has been able to work without the scientists on whom she results more dependent . Thus , given an author ai and the set of her co authors on whom she resulted more dependent Kai ( calculated applying an adaptive cut off to the ordered list of d index values ) , we calculate the dependence coefficient of a researcher ai as her dependence degree on Kai . In particular , we first define the scientific network of ai and Kai as N etai,Kai = N etai,a1 ∪ N etai,a2 ∪ · · · ∪ N etai,ap , ( where Kai = {a1 , a2 , · · · ap} ) . Then , for each co author ak ∈ N etai,Kai , we calculate the relative dependence of the collaboration between ai and ak on the authors in Kai as w
Kai ai,ak = 1 − pai,Kai ,ak + pai,ak ,¬Kai
,ak + pai,ak ,¬Kai + pKai pai,Kai
,
( 3 )
,ak ,¬ai where
• pai,Kai
,ak is the number of paper co authored by ai , ak , and at least one author in Kai ;
• pai,ak ,¬Kai is the number of paper co authored by ai and ak without the contribution of Kai ( ie , excluding the research outputs in which is also involved at least one author in Kai ) ;
• pKai
,ak ,¬ai is the number of paper co authored by a least one author in Kai and ak without the contribution of ai ( ie , excluding the papers in which is also involved ai ) ;
At this step , we use all these relative dependences to cal culate the dependence coefficient of ai as cai = d
Kai ai = pai,Kai pai
×
Pak ∈N etai ,Kai |N etai,Kai w
|
Kai ai,ak
( 4 )
, where pai,Kai is the productivity of ai in collaboration with Kai ( ie , the number of research output co authored by ai and at least one author in Kai ) .
Figure 1 : Bipartite dependence Graph : two authors a1 and a2 and the set of co authors that they have in common ( N eta1,a2 ) . been working in . This is modeled through a Bipartite Dependence Graph , or BDG , which aim is to represent two authors in their scientific environment , defined as the set of co authors they have in common . More in detail , given two authors ai and aj , we define their BDGai,aj = {Vai,aj , Eai,aj , w} , where
• Vai,aj = {ai , aj} ∪ N etai,aj , where N etai,aj is the set of researchers that co authored at least one paper with both ai and aj ;
• Eai,aj contains the undirected edges representing collaborations between two authors ( ie , if eax,ay ∈ Eai,aj there is at least one paper co authored by both ax and ay , with ax ∈ {ai , aj} ∧ ay ∈ N etai,aj ) ;
• w is the weighting function .
The weight w of each edge within the BDG represents the relative dependence of a collaboration between two authors with respect to a co author . In other words , each weight represents how much the collaboration between a pair of authors is dependent on the collaboration with a common coauthor . Considering the example shown in Figure 1 , given the authors a1 and a2 and one of their co authors , a3 , the weight of the edge connecting a1 and a3 in BDGa1,a2 represents the dependence of the collaboration between a1 and a3 on the scientific assistance of a2 . This information quantifies how much the collaboration between a1 and a3 depends on the contribution of a2 . More formally , given two authors ai and aj and one of their common co authors ak , we define aj ai,ak of the collaboration between the relative dependence w ai and ak on aj as w aj ai,ak = 1 − pai,aj ,ak + pai,ak ,¬aj pai,aj ,ak + pai,ak ,¬aj + paj ,ak ,¬ai
,
( 1 ) where
• pai,aj ,ak is the productivity of the collaboration among ai , aj , and ak calculated as the number of papers that ai , aj and ak co authored together ;
• pai,ak ,¬aj is the productivity of the collaboration between ai and ak without the contribution of aj ( ie , calculated as the number of papers ai and ak coauthored without the assistance of aj ) ;
• paj ,ak ,¬ai is the productivity of the collaboration between aj and ak without the contribution of ai ( ie , calculated as the number of paper aj and ak coauthored without the assistance of ai ) . aj ai,ak ranges from 0 to 1 ; in parThis relative dependence w aj ticular , w ai,ak ≈ 0 indicates that the dependence of the scientific collaboration between ai and ak relatively to aj is negligible , while a w aj ai,ak ≈ 1 highlights the contrary .
1521 3 . VISUALIZATION TOOLS
The web based application , presented in Section 4 , includes several tools for visualizing information about all the researchers indexed by the DBLP service . In this section we present them in detail .
3.1 Your and Others dependences
The first way to analyze the scientific dependences of a researcher is to plot the d index values , in ascending order , related to her co authors , as a curve within a Cartesian coordinate system ( Figure 2(b) ) . This visualization scheme gives a first insight into an author ’s career by showing in a single chart the ordered dependences with respect to all her co authors .
This curve can be also leveraged as an instrument for comparisons among different authors with respect to shared coauthors . However , considering that the co authors of two researchers are most of the time different , in order to permit this comparison , we also present another chart where we map onto the x axis a set of meta authors where each one of them represents one co author of each considered researcher . More formally , given two authors ai and aj and their set of co authors , N etai = {ai,1 , ai,2 · · · ai,n} and N etaj = {aj,1 , aj,2 · · · aj,m} ( where aj,t is the t th co author of aj ordered by the d index values , and n is not necessarily equals to m ) , we map onto the x axis a set of metaauthors N etmeta = {ak,1 , ak,2 · · · ak,r} where each author ak,h ∈ N etmeta represents one co author of each researcher ( ie , ak,h represents ai,n−r+h and aj,m−r+h respectively ) and r = m if m ≤ n , otherwise r = n .
This way , we permit to compare scientists based on their highest dependence values instead of their shared co authors ( that , obviously , not necessarily exist ) . In a sense , we compare researchers based on their absolute dependence values without taking into account on whom they are dependent . An example is shown in Figure 2(c ) . 3.2 You and your Collaborators
While the previous visualization scheme provides a simple way to analyze the dependences of a researcher , it does not permit to evaluate the reciprocal ones . In fact , given two scientists , it could be difficult to establish who of them is more dependent on the other by only analyzing their curves . For this reason , considering an author ai , we introduce her Mutual dependence Curve , that plots all her co authors onto the x axis and , for each co author ak , it shows their mutual dependence calculated as dak ak onto the y axis . The co authors are ordered based on these values . ai − dai
Using this simple tool , it is possible to distinguish the collaborators who depend on the considered researcher ( those plotted under the x axis ) from those that more likely lead the scientific collaborations with the considered researcher ( those plotted above the x axis ) . 3.3 You and your Communities
Since researchers tend to work in communities , we provide a tool for analyzing scientific dependences among authors with respect to the communities they form . As the mutual dependence curve does , our tool called Collaboration Map shows the mutual dependences onto the y axis . Regarding the x axis , we aim to plot the co authors based on the local communities they form with respect to the considered researcher . In particular , starting from an author ai , we compute her square collaboration matrix Ci where both rows and columns represent her co authors , and Ci[j][k ] is the number of papers of ai co authored by both aj and ak ( the diagonal Ci[j][j ] simply reports the number of outcomes that ai produced in collaboration with aj ) . From this , we compute a dissimilarity matrix of co authors Di , where Di[j][k ] = 1 − cos(Ci[j ] , Ci[k] ) , where the function cos measures the cosine similarity between two vectors , Ci[j ] and Ci[k ] , representing , respectively , the j th and k th rows of the collaboration matrix of the author ai . We then apply the well known X Means clustering approach ( which is able to automatically determine the optimal number of clusters ) , to the dissimilarity matrix in order to find clusters of co authors who collaborated prolifically among them with respect to considered author ( the communities are then visualized within the chart with different colors ) .
At this point , we need to map this information into a onedimensional ordering ( the x axis ) . For this , without loss of generality , we use multi dimensional scaling ( MDS ) proposed in [ 3 ] to embed the co authors onto a 1 dimensional order . This chart allows us to graphically group the coauthors based on their scientific relations ( i.e , the closer the authors onto the x axis , the more productive is their collaboration with respect to the considered researcher ) , to identify the local communities in which the author is involved , and to estimate the roles the co authors play within the local communities with respect to the considered researcher ( for each co author , the lower her y value , the more scientifically dependent on the considered researcher ) . An example is shown in Figure 2(e ) .
3.4 You among All
Finally we provide a set of tools for comparing , from different points of view , the considered author with the all the scientists indexed in DBLP ( 1,097,418 researchers ) . In particular , we analyze , in three different charts , the relation between the dependence coefficient of an author ( Section 2 ) and three parameters : the total number of her published papers , the total number of her co authors and the length of her scientific career ( expressed in years , from her first publication to her last one ) . Within these charts , all the researchers within DBLP are mapped with blue points , whereas the considered researcher is highlighted in red . This way , it is possible to compare each researcher with the entire community by focusing on different parameters , and according to the dependence coefficients . Moreover , within these charts , it is possible to map multiple authors and compare them with respect to the entire community .
4 . DEMO SCENARIO
In this section we present a web environment , available at http://d indexdiunitoit , for evaluation of scientific dependences among researchers . The considered data set contains information about the 1,097,418 authors and the 1,924,030 papers indexed by the DBLP bibliographic database2 . Within this web platform it is possible to perform the following operations :
• visualization of the scientific profile of each researcher , including the information about her research papers and her collaborations over time ;
• graphical analyses of scientific dependences with re spect to the co authors ;
2Information updated on March 2012 .
1522 ( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
( e )
( f )
Figure 2 : Different visualizations of the career of Dr . Tim Berners Lee taken from http://d indexdiunitoit ; our web environment permits to visualize the information about the author ( a ) , his dependence curve ( here visualized as a histogram ) ( b ) , a comparison with other scientists ( in this example only Dr . Sergey Brin)(c ) , his mutual dependences with respect to his co authors ( d ) , his local communities ( e ) and the relations between his dependence coefficient and his total number of papers compared with the whole scientific community ( and , in this example , also focused on the comparison with Dr . Brin ) ( f ) .
• graphical comparisons among authors based on their dependence curves and coefficients ;
• graphical analyses of the mutual dependences of the each researcher relatively to her co authors ;
• graphical analyses of the local communities in which the author is involved , estimating the dependence of each member on the considered researcher ;
• comparisons with the entire community , focusing on the dependence coefficient , with respect to the total number of papers , total number of co authors and length of career .
Figure 2 shows a set of screenshots taken from the presented web application . Within this system a user can search for authors and analyze their scientific profiles , according to the proposed measures . In particular , the system permits to query the database by typing an author ’s name and disambiguate , if it is necessary , the authors’ list that match the query . The user can therefore analyze the scientific profile of the selected author ( Figure 2(a ) ) by studying her scientific career ( visualized as a histogram of papers per year ) , the complete list of scientific outcomes ( through the standard information as the title , the name of the conference/journal , the year of the publication , etc. ) , the entire list of co authors over the entire career , and much more .
Then , as shown in Figure 2(b ) , it is possible to analyze her dependence curve that visualizes her scientific dependences ( plotted as explained in Section 31 ) The curve permits to graphically order her co authors with respect to their dindex value . The user can visualize this in two different ways ( curve or histogram ) .
Using the dependence curve , it is also possible to compare the considered researcher with different authors ; an example is shown in Figure 2(c ) . Then , the user can analyze her scientific relationships with her co authors by visualizing her Mutual Dependences Curve ( Figure 2(d) ) , graphically separating the authors who depend on the considered researcher ( in blue ) from those he is dependent on ( in red ) . Moreover , by visualizing the Collaboration Map ( Figure 2(e) ) , it is possible to get an alternative view of her dependences by also taking into account her communities ( intended as groups of co authors ) . In this way it is possible to analyze the research groups in which the author has been involved and , for each of them , the relative dependence of each researcher belonging to it on the considered author . Finally , the application permits to compare the researcher with the entire community by focusing on the dependence coefficient with respect to different parameters ( number of papers , number of co authors and length of the career ) . Within these charts , it is possible to plot multiple authors ( Figure 2(f) ) .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Di Caro , M . Cataldi , and C . Schifanella . The d index : Discovering dependences among scientific collaborators from their bibliographic data records . Scientometrics , pages 1–25 . 101007/s11192 012 0762 1 [ 2 ] J . Hirsch . An index to quantify an individual ’s scientific research output . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 2005 .
[ 3 ] W . S . Torgerson . Theory and methods of scaling . RE
Krieger Pub . Co , 1958 .
1523
