Navigating Information Facets on Twitter ( NIF T )
Shamanth Kumar† , Fred Morstatter† , Grant Marshall† , Huan Liu† , Ullas Nambiar‡ † School of Computing , Informatics , and Decision Systems Engineering , Arizona State University
‡ IBM India Research Lab , New Delhi , India
{skumar34,fmorstat,gamarsha,hliu}@asuedu,ubnambiar@inibmcom
ABSTRACT Recent years have seen an exponential increase in the number of users of social media sites . As the number of users of these sites continues to grow at an extraordinary rate , the amount of data produced follows in magnitude . With this deluge of social media data , the need for comprehensive tools to analyze user interactions is ever increasing . In this paper , we present a novel tool , Navigating Information Facets on Twitter ( NIF T ) , which helps users to explore data generated on social media sites . Using the three dimensions or facets : time , location , and topic as an example of the many possible facets , we enable the users to explore large social media datasets . With the help of a large corpus of tweets collected from the Occupy Wall Street movement on the Twitter platform we show how our system can be used to identify important aspects of the event along these facets .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Information filtering , Search process
General Terms Design , Experimentation
Keywords Faceted Search , Social Media , and Visual Analytics
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Many social networking sites have hundreds of millions of active users who publish content on a regular basis . Twitter , for example , claims a daily tweet publishing rate of 250 million1 . Given this , we are now over encumbered with data . The deluge of data has brought forth many new problems for data scientists , including the problem of search and navigation of information in the space of social media . NIF T , 1http://tinyurl.com/3ngck5x our proposed system , is a web based system that leverages faceted navigation to solve this problem using Twitter as a representative example of social media . A facet of the data extracts and organizes the information in the data along a specific dimension . Information on Twitter is known as tweets , which can consist of text of at most 140 characters . In the past year , Twitter has been used as a communication medium in several crises . Twitter has also been prominently used during the Arab Spring uprising in several countries in the Middle East . In September of 2011 , the Occupy Wall Street movement was started with a presence on Twitter through the hashtag #occupywallstreet . To a user exploring social and political events , NIF T extracts and presents the following facets which are generalizable enough to be used on most social media sites .
Influenced by Ranganathan ’s classic PMEST model for identifying information facets [ 8 ] , we focus our effort on organization of tweets into 3 orthogonal facets or dimensions : time facet , geo facet , and topic facet . The system and the approach can be very easily expanded to include other dimensions based on existing domain knowledge , such as user demographics , resources shared within tweets , tweeters’ social networks , etc .
Events are temporal by nature and span a limited amount of time . Using time as a facet of the data , significant temporal bursts of content are automatically extracted and proposed to the user for further investigation . Location is becoming increasingly popular in social media , with several popular social media sites now supporting location based updates . Tweet location as a facet enables users of our system to detect prominent regions associated with an event . The topics of the tweets are indicative of the theme of their content . One prominent choice for topics is the hashtags used in the tweet . However , when discussing the navigation of event related tweets , we need to look beyond hashtags to identify finer points of discussion in these tweets . Topics are effective in summarization of the data and can significantly aid user analysis .
2 . DATASET
To show the effectiveness of our system we identify and collect a dataset that pertains to the Occupy Wall Street movement , which received much media attention and publicity last year . The movement was well advertised before it officially began on Sept 17 , 2011 . The movement started as a protest against the growing social and economic disparity in US . Although the movement began in New York ,
1548 Table 1 : Hashtags used to crawl tweets related to the Occupy Wall Street movement on Twitter
Event Name
Occupy Wall Street
Hashtags #occupywallstreet , #ows , #occupyboston , #p2 , #occupywallst , #occupy , #tcot , #occupyphoenix , #15o , #occupytogether , #teaparty , #99percent , #nypd , #takewallstreet , #occupydc,#occupychicago , #occupyla , #usdor , #occupyboston , #occupyoakland , #occupysf , #solidarity , #anonymous , #citizenradio , #gop , #sep17 it eventually spread across the country , and to many other countries around the world .
Advertisements distributed preceding this movement explicitly promoted use of the Twitter hashtag #occupywallstreet . Other hashtags such as #ows , #occupy and its variants for individual cities and countries were later used by people to discuss local impact of the movement . There are several reasons for selecting this particular event : The OWS movement was well advertised on social media platforms . The event explicitly used Twitter , to promote their ideas . Even though the event began as US centric , it quickly spread to several other countries and was closely followed by many . “ Occupy London ” is one such example . The penetration of both mobile technology2 and Twitter3 in the United States also makes this a suitable event to explore .
The dataset used in this paper was crawled using a list of hashtags and keywords related to the OWS movement . Tracking of the movement was started on September 14 , 2011 with the advertised hashtag , #occupywallstreet , and later more specific local variants of the hashtags were added as the movement gained momentum . A full list of the parameters used to crawl the dataset is presented in Table 1 . The dataset consists of 9,357,141 tweets generated by 908,269 users collected between Sept 14 , 2011 to Dec 27 , 2011 . 85,752 of these tweets were geotagged ; that is , their location information was made available . As an alternative , a user may provide some textual location information as part of his Twitter profile . If provided , this textual location is extracted from a Twitter user ’s profile and translated into geographic coordinates using a combination of the Nominatim service provided by OpenStreetMaps4 and the GeoNames5 dataset consisting of more than 10 million named locations . The coordinates are then stored as part of tweet metadata . The dataset will be shared upon request according to
Twitter data sharing guidelines .
3 . OVERVIEW OF NIF T
Our system is web based , and uses a client server architecture . The view consists of our faceted search interface , the contribution of this work . The faceted search interface consists of three components used to help the user navigate the facets . Our view is written in HTML5 , CSS , and Javascript . Our server side component , which hosts the dataset and performs operations such as retrieving data and returning basic views of the data was written in PHP , and uses MySQL as the data store . It is hosted on an Apache server . On starting the system , a user is immediately presented with the three facets computed from the entire dataset . Figure 2 provides an overview of the system from the OWS dataset from Nov 15 .
2http://tinyurl.com/56vmkd 3http://tinyurl.com/5sjks7v 4http://wikiopenstreetmaporg/wiki/Nominatim 5http://wwwgeonamesorg/
Figure 1 : System Workflow
NIF T organizes the information into three distinct facets :
3.1 Geo Facet
The Geo Facet is presented to the user in the form of a map . In Figure 2 we see the geo facet in the center of the map . Tweets that match the parameters set forth by the other two facets are displayed in the form of dots on the map . The map component is rendered using the Leaflet library6 for JavaScript . Leaflet comes with the ability to draw map layers along with the ability to render map markers , zoom , and pan across the map . One strength of Leaflet is that it draws only the portion of the map that the user is currently viewing , with all other portions rendered “ on demand ” when the user pans to that region . To accommodate this , Leaflet takes the map images and cuts them into a series of smaller images , called tiles . CloudMade7 serves these tiles . Effectively displaying a large number of tweets on the map was one of the major challenges . A reasonable query could easily return in excess of 100,000 tweets . A collection of this size would cause lag on the user interface , rendering the map almost unusable . To get around this issue , we decided not to render each individual tweet as a map marker , and instead to render the tweet locations as a series of tiles drawn by an HTML5 Canvas8 element . The result is a series of tiles drawn in a manner exactly the same as the map tiles described earlier , providing the user with a seamless experience that takes a much lighter toll on the browser . 3.2 Topic Facet
Topics extracted from the tweets can help a user to understand their context and guide a user in further analysis . This facet is visualized in the form of a word cloud . The
6http://leafletcloudmadecom 7http://cloudmade.com/ 8http://devw3org/html5/2dcontext/
1549 Figure 2 : NIF T system word cloud is generated from tweets by ranking the words on their TF scores . Computation of IDF is replaced by removal of Twitter entities like URLs , usernames , hashtags , and an extensive list of stopwords as this is less expensive . Additionally , the words were stemmed using Porter Stemmer . An example of the topic visualization can be seen in Figure 2 . The relevance of each word in the word cloud is highlighted by its font size which is proportional to its frequency of occurrence in the underlying tweets .
3.3 Time Facet
The Time facet is displayed following the concept of control charts . In a control chart , the observations are plotted along with a statistic such as the mean . The interestingness of an observation is determined based on upper and lower control limits , typically 3 standard deviations away from the mean . In addition , warning limits can also be set , such that a new observation that crosses the warning limit would trigger an alert . In our system , the observations are the daily recorded traffic of the tweet in the dataset , and we set the warning limit to 1 standard deviation , such that all observations above 1 standard deviation are presented to the user as interesting observations in the form of a histogram . This histogram can be viewed in the left panel of Figure 2 . Relevant details accompany the visualization for faster understanding .
4 . USING NIF T FOR INSIGHTS
In this section , we present two specific insights gained from using our NIF T on the OWS dataset . But , first we discuss how a user of the system can interact with the various facets in our system .
Geo Facet : A user can zoom or pan to different regions , the other two facets are updated automatically to show tweets characteristics of tweets from the region in the user ’s view . Topic Facet : A user can select one or more of these topics by clicking the tags to effect a change in the geospatial visualization and view the corresponding relevant checkpoints in the time facet as well . Time Facet : A user can select one or more of the time presented in this facet by clicking the accompanying buttons . The time facet is interactive like the other facets and user selections cause the information in the other facets to be filtered accordingly .
Figure 3 : Geographical distribution of tweets from Nov 15 , 2011
User interaction with any one facet causes the other two facets to react , updating their views to help the user navigate within the confines of the new selection . For example , panning and zooming the map to create a geographic sub selection will cause the topic to update , showing the most relevant keywords from within the view and cause the temporal histogram to update showing the days within the specified region containing the most tweets .
From the time facet in Figure 2 we can clearly see that we capture many of the significant dates highlighted in the OWS event timeline on Wikipedia9 . One of the largest peaks observed through the system occurs on Nov 15 with more than 490k tweets published that day . A closer look at New York shows a dense cluster of tweets around the Zuccotti park area as observed in Figure 3 . On Nov 15 , Zuccotti park was cleared by NYPD after almost 8 weeks of camping by the protestors . The density of tweets in the region increased considerably after this incident . The topics from this day , such as “ zuccotti ” , “ park ” , and “ polic ” also clearly indicate the general theme of the tweets .
In another example , we looked at the tweets from Western Europe , particularly the UK , where Twitter is also popular to verify if the large spike in tweets observed in the US had also stirred the interest of people in this part of the world . A screenshot of the system for this region is presented in
9http://tinyurl.com/7g5q5st
1550 In a similar vein , TweetTracker [ 3 ] is a system to track events in real time . In this approach , the user is allowed to specify their own parameters for each individual event . The system then uses the Twitter Streaming API10 to collect a sample of the tweets containing those keywords/hashtags . [ 6 ] investigates the propagation of rumors and facts in the aftermath of the Chilean earthquake .
6 . SUMMARY
The idea of faceted browsing in library sciences is quite old . When combined with the many forms of information present in social media it can be a powerful tool to analyze large social media datasets . NIF T focuses on visualizing unstructured social media stream through faceted browsing . This necessitates identification of meaningful and easily understandable facets to map this content . NIF T uses the PMEST Classification Scheme from Library Sciences to derive these meaningful facets . In this work , we have implemented a system over a large real world social media data(specifically Twitter OWS data ) and shown the effeciency and utility of faceted browsing .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was sponsored , in part , by NSF grant #0812551 and ONR grant N000141010091 .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Senjuti Basu Roy , Haidong Wang , Gautam Das , Ullas
Nambiar , and Mukesh Mohania . Minimum effort driven dynamic faceted search in structured databases . CIKM ’08 , pages 13–22 , New York , NY , USA , 2008 . ACM . [ 2 ] C . He , X . Cheng , J . Guo , and H . Shen . Multi select faceted navigation based on minimum description length principle . IJCAI’11 , 2011 .
[ 3 ] S . Kumar , G . Barbier , MA Abbasi , and H . Liu .
Tweettracker : An analysis tool for humanitarian and disaster relief . ICWSM , 2011 .
[ 4 ] B . Lee , G . Smith , GG Robertson , M . Czerwinski , and DS Tan . Facetlens : exposing trends and relationships to support sensemaking within faceted datasets . CHI’09 , pages 1293–1302 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] Michael Mathioudakis and Nick Koudas .
Twittermonitor : trend detection over the twitter stream . SIGMOD ’10 , pages 1155–1158 , New York , NY , USA , 2010 . ACM .
[ 6 ] Marcelo Mendoza , Barbara Poblete , and Carlos
Castillo . Twitter under crisis : can we trust what we rt ? SOMA ’10 , pages 71–79 , New York , NY , USA , 2010 . ACM .
[ 7 ] E . Quintarelli , A . Resmini , and L . Rosati . Information architecture : Facetag : Integrating bottom up and top down classification in a social tagging system . Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 33(5):10–15 , 2007 .
[ 8 ] SR Ranganathan . Elements of library classification , volume 8 . Asia Pub . House , 1962 .
[ 9 ] Raymond Chi Wing Wong , Jian Pei , Ada Wai Chee Fu , and Ke Wang . Mining favorable facets . KDD ’07 , pages 804–813 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
10https://devtwittercom/docs/streaming api
Figure 4 : Geographical distribution of tweets from the UK
Figure 4 . The topic in this case focuses on Kim Jong Il ( referring to his death ) and the most important date for this region was Nov 19 when the number of tweets was far greater than any other day . The absence of the impact of Zuccotti park incident on this region is interesting and points to the locality of such events even though the regions are connected by a common movement .
Given a sample of the Twitter stream our system would be helpful to anyone who wishes to investigate the underlying events that possibly generated the stream and help in investigating and understanding them .
5 . RELATED WORK
We will discuss the related work to our research from two different areas : multi faceted browsing , and Twitter analysis in the context of global events .
Faceted search as a means to investigate large corpora of data has been studied extensively . Facet Lens [ 4 ] exploits metadata to display relationships between the various facets of the data . It also aims to discover trends in the data and present them to the user in a clear and direct manner . Seeking to implement faceted search by automatically presenting facets to the user , [ 1 ] presents facets to users which best match their interests . In this work , the system acquires from the user the facets that are demanded most at each interaction , helping the user to quickly find the records of a structured database which are most useful . In the only example we found of the merging of faceted search with social media , [ 7 ] uses faceted search as a way to assist in searching through records labeled through folksonomy . By combining user generated tags with more structured category definitions from the Classification Research Group , this approach allows users to search through articles using both structured and unstructured facets . In an approach that focuses on topics , [ 9 ] creates a system which dynamically creates facets from topics in the corpus that is being searched . Using PLSA to derive topics , the system gives each user an individual experience where they can choose topics that suit their interests . Discussions of the merits of faceted search through its ability to reduce effort in finding sought after records are conducted in [ 2 ] .
Twitter analysis in crisis scenarios is an active area of research . TwitterMonitor [ 5 ] is a system which constantly monitors a stream of tweets , looking for “ bursts ” in keywords or hashtags . When an influx occurs , the system then stores all of the tweets containing the keywords behind the burst .
1551
