Intelligent Advertising Framework for Digital Signage Shahzad Malik Phil Tian Intel Corporation
Kunapareddy Chiranjeevi
Intel Corporation
Intel Corporation
Addicam V Sanjay
Intel Corporation
5000 W . Chandler Blvd Chandler , AZ 85226
USA
+1 480 552 0275
Raycom InfoTech Park A 2 Kexueyuan South Rd Beijing 100190 PRC
+8610 82171645
Thoobarahalli Village Bangalore South Taluk Bangalore 560037 , India
+91 80 2513 2521
15 Allstate Parkway 6th Floor , Markham ON , Canada , L3R 5B4
+1 416 846 7209 philtian@intelcom addicamvsanjay@ intel.com kunapareddy.chiranjeevi
@intel.com shahzadmalik@intel com
ABSTRACT How to realize targeted advertising in digital signage is an interesting question . This paper proposed an Intelligent Advertising Framework ( IAF ) , which pioneers the integration of Anonymous Viewer Analytics ( AVA ) and Data Mining technologies to achieve Targeted and interactive Advertising . IAF correlates AVA viewership information with point of sale ( POS ) data , and establishes a link between the response time to an ad by a certain demographic group and the effect on the sale of the advertised product . With the advertising models learned based on this correlation , IAF can provide advertisers and retailers with intelligence to show the right ads to right audience in right location at right time . Preliminary results indicate that IAF will greatly improve the effect and utility of advertising and maximize the Return on Investment ( ROI ) of advertisers and retailers . The demo shows Intel ’s leadership regarding intelligent advertising in the Digital Signage industry . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications data mining ; I48 [ Image Processing and Computer Vision ] : Scene Analysis object recognition , tracking ; I54 [ Pattern Recognition ] : Applications computer vision . General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Design , Experimentation Keywords Intelligent Advertising Framework , Digital Signage , Targeted Advertising , Anonymous Viewer Analytics , Data Mining
1 . INTRODUCTION Digital signage ( DS ) [ 1 ] [ 2 ] is the term that is often used to describe the use of LCD , LED , plasma , or projected displays to show news , ads , local announcements , and other multimedia content in public venues such as restaurants or malls . In recent years , the digital signage industry has experienced tremendous growth , and it is now only second to the Internet in terms of annual advertising revenue growth [ 3 ] .
One of the main challenges in the digital signage industry has been providing signage operators with some clear ROI data . Fortunately , some recent technologies such as AVA are now available on the market to help digital signage operators to measure marketing ROI by capturing audience data such as total number of viewers , average attention span , and even the gender and age of viewers as they pass by a screen . More advanced data correlations are also possible , such as matching anonymous viewership data with point of sale data . AVA plus data correlation provides advertisers a more effective and accurate way to measure the effectiveness of their ads than traditional sampling and extrapolation method . Besides measuring ad effectiveness , a more important problem that advertisers are concerned with is how to improve ROI , not just understand ROI . A typical approach is using the concept of targeted advertising . Although targeted advertising has been adopted in many industries [ 4 ] [ 5 ] , such as banking , insurance , telecom marketing , social networks , it is still a new concept for digital signage industry . Quividi [ 6 ] and Tru Media [ 7 ] are two popular companies that provide audience measurement solutions . Although their solutions also provide some targeted advertising capabilities , the advertising models are created manually rather than learned from historical viewership data automatically . Immersive Labs developed a prototype that realizes targeted advertising by mining the historical data [ 8 ] . But it hasn’t yet publicized any details on the used data mining algorithms and targeting accuracy . This paper proposed an Intelligent Advertising Framework ( IAF ) , which integrates AVA and Data Mining technologies to achieve Targeted and interactive Advertising in digital signage . It uses AVA to capture human faces and recognize demographic information of the audiences , then correlate this information with ads playing list , point of sale ( POS ) data as well as other context information , such as time , location , weather etc . , and use data mining algorithms to learn advertising models based on the correlation . Using these models , IAF is able to intelligently select and play the most appropriate ads to the audience in real time .
2 . IAF ARCHITECTURE Figure 1 demonstrates an end to end reference architecture of IAF . AIM Suite Analytics Server , Data Mining Engine , Data Mining Module ( DMM ) and Content Management System ( CMS ) run in the Cloud . AIM Suite and Digital Player run on the Client , ie the digital signs . IAF shows a wonderful integration of cloud based data mining and client based real time content triggering . The data mining happens in the cloud to take use of the computing resource as much as possible . And the content
1532 Figure 1 . The IAF architecture . selection and triggering happens in real time in the client independent of cloud end . AIM Suite is an AVA component , which passively analyzes the video feed of the audience captured by an embedded camera in real time , creates and sends viewership information to Analytic Server . After cleansed ( removing noises and outliers ) on Analytic Server , the viewership information is saved into the data repository in the Cloud . Analytic Server also works as a middleware to provide AVA data access and analytical reports to outside or other components . Data Mining Engine provides data mining algorithms and mechanism for learning and querying advertising models . DMM realizes the capabilities of data connection , predictive modeling , model query as well as rule extraction , and automate the processes so as to make these capabilities accessible from other components or applications through web services . CMS consumes advertising models learned by DMM , and take other advertising information as inputs to create customized advertising the configuration and management of digital signs , actual ads , advertisers etc . Digital Player takes use of real time viewership information , advertising models , customized list from CMS and advertisers’ inputs etc . to make the final decision in real time on what ads should be displayed on the digital signs . It also performs the display of the actual ads , creates ad playlist , and sends the playlist to data repository in the cloud . 3 . TARGETED ADVERTISING METHDOLOGY Targeted advertising type of advertising whereby advertisements are placed so as to reach consumers based on various traits such as demographics , purchase history , or observed behavior [ 9 ] . On one hand , targeted advertising helps to identify potential customers , create a real time relationship with these customers , improves their experience , and provides them crosssell services to boost incremental revenue . On the other hand , it helps to reduce waste and improve advertisers’ ROI by just
It also is a lists . realizes placing advertisement to the potential purchasers rather than the whole population . Targeted advertising in digital signage requires the digital signs have the capability to dynamically select and play advertisements according to the traits of the audiences in front of them , rather than select and play in a predefined or random order . Future audience belonging to the same demographic as previous audience will be targeted based on the viewing behavior of the previous audience . 3.1 Audience Targeting Methods Here we use data mining algorithms to discover the patterns on viewing behaviors of the audience . The basic idea is to show the audience certain ads that have in the past been viewed for a reasonable amount of time by the audience belonging to the same demographics . For the purpose of capturing the patterns contained in new coming data , two different ways are used to retrain the advertising models , regular retraining and on demand retraining . Regular retraining is triggered regularly , such as weekly or monthly . Ondemand retraining is triggered when the performance of the models is lower than a predefined threshold or a retaining request is received from users or operators . Besides , to fully take use of the advantages of different data mining algorithms , Decision Tree , Association Rule and Naïve Bayes are used to train advertising models in parallel . The best advertising model or multiple advertising models will be used for ad selection . We use the below three methods to target the audience . Many technical details on how to realize these methods are available in [ 10 ] . 311 Seeing Based Targeting Seeing based targeting means targeting the audience once the digital sign “ sees ” the audience . For example , 3 young females and 1 senior male are seen passing by the digital sign , then the
1533 advertising models are queried with this input and the most appropriate ad is selected to play . This is the most accurate targeting method give the demographic information of the audience has been captured and used . 312 Prediction Based Targeting Prediction based targeting first predicts the passers coming in the future period of time and then targets them . For example , it is predicted that 3 young females and 1 senior male will pass by the digital sign within next 20 seconds , then the most appropriate ad is to be selected per the advertising models and prepared to play . This is quite useful in the below scenario . In some cases , if the time cost of the whole targeting process is longer than the audience ’s dwelling time , that means when the digital player gets the selected ad prepared and displayed on the screen , the audience has looked away and never look back , the seeing based targeting doesn’t work . 313 Context Based Targeting Context based targeting targets the ads just depending on the context , such as targeting date/time , device location , weather info etc . For example , in clear Wednesday morning between 9 AM and 11AM during November and December , an ad for senior males will be selected to play on digital sign A per the advertising models . This is useful when passer type prediction is not reliable or no passer patterns can be discovered from the training data . 3.2 Targeted Advertising Process The process of targeted advertising can be broken down into four phases : creating viewer events , learning advertising models , creating playlists , and playing playlists . 321 Create Viewer Events AIM Suite is responsible for creation of viewer events . It takes the video feeds from a camera as its input , and detects the human faces in each image frame , then recognizes the demographics ( gender , age bracket ) of the faces , and finally creates the viewer events [ 11 ] . It should be emphasized that AIM Suite is privacy friendly [ 12 ] . It only detects the presence of a mathematical human face as well as its demographic features , but it does not identify who the face belongs to . Moreover , only viewing events are recorded , which are completely anonymous . And no images or video footage are stored , so there is no way to link back to any specific individual from the viewing events . The audience ’s privacy is well protected . 322 Learn Advertising Models DMM in IAF correlates the viewer events with player events ( about what ads were played at what time and in what location ) and other context information , and discovers interesting viewer patterns or advertising models from the correlated data . like when , where , under what weather and to what extent what group of audience is interested in what type of ads . DMM consists of following subcomponents . Data Connector : Connects and gets access to the training data repository . The data is made of original AVA data , playlist data , weather data and ad data . Data Preprocessor : Realizes necessary data preprocessing actions , like deriving new attributes from original attributes for modeling purpose .
Model Constructor : Defines data mining models with specified algorithm , training data scope and training parameters Model Learner : Learn advertising models according to the model definition , also test the learned models against the testing data in terms of accuracy . Query Engine : Both prediction result and model content ( such as rules ) can be queried against an advertising model . This enables extraction and deployment elsewhere of the model content to achieve better efficiency for real time applications . 323 Create Default Playlist After the advertising models are generated , they get transferred to the CMS . CMS then extracts the Ad Categories from the models and creates Ad Category list . The ad information ( such as actual ad location ) corresponding to the Ad Categories are then fetched from the ad information table . Based on Ad category list , CMS creates initial ad lists , which are modified in Advertiser Input Scheduler based on the advertisers’ inputs . Each Advertiser is assigned certain priority , which rearranges the initial ad lists in Advertiser Input Scheduler . 324 Finalize and Play the Playlist Finally the shuffered ad lists get transferred to the Digital player . It generates the default playlist by extracting the path from the ad list and then getting the ads from the Ad Repository . The digital player operates in either online or offline mode . In online mode , Digital Player selects an ad based on the probability distribution calculated using advertising models . In the offline mode , Digital Player selects an ad from default playlist based on the scheduling time . It switches between these two modes depending on the confidence level of the advertising models . That means when the confidence beyond some predefined threshold , digital player works in online mode ; otherwise , it works in offline mode . 4 . INITIAL EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS An IAF prototype was developed and on this basis an internal pilot was performed within Intel . We use both real internal GPTW ( Great Place To Work ) events and fake ads as playing content on digital sign . The experiment data was collected from 5 digital signs deployed globally . We use 70 % collection data for training and the remaining 30 % for testing . Three algorithms , Decision Tree ( DT ) , Association Rule ( AR ) and Naïve Bayes ( NB ) in Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Service ( SSAS ) were used in the experiments .
Table 1 . Initial experimental results on targeting accuracy .
Seeing based targeting model Context based targeting model
71.72 % 67.98 %
68.34 % 67.66 %
NB
64.26 % 64.05 %
DT
AR
The experimental results are as shown in Table 1 , where each cell indicates the targeting accuracy of each model learned by different algorithms . Here the difference between Seeing Based Targeting model and Context Based Targeting model is that the former uses demographic info ( gender and age bracket ) as inputs and the latter doesn’t . From Table1 , we can see that Decision Tree algorithm can achieve the highest targeting accuracy for both types of models ( 71.72 % and 67.98 % respectively ) . Moreover , Seeing Based Targeting model can achieve higher targeting accuracy than Context Based Targeting model with Decision Tree algorithm .
1534 This verifies that demographic info does help to improve the audience targeting accuracy . Finally , we found in Decision Tree model , playing ad is the most differentiable factor for targeting results , which indicates that different ads have very different attraction to the audiences . An interesting example is that the audiences show very different behaviors with respect to a focal evaluation ad when compared with other ads . Since the training data was collected within Intel campuses , and most of the Intel employees are male young adults and male adults , it is not a good coverage of all the different audience groups ( child , young adults , adults and senior ) . Furthermore , most of the playing content is quite generic , not gender and age specific , which results in different audience groups have similar interests in the same playing content . We believe the targeting accuracy of IAF can be significantly improved up to around 90 % if it is deployed in public locations like restaurants , Disney , shopping mall and has gender and age differentiable content playing on the digital signs . 5 . DEMONSTRATION An IAF demo was developed to show the concept of targeted advertising in digital signage . Figure 2 shows a screenshot of IAF demo interface . The top right window shows the captured human face in a green circle . To its bottom shows the recognized demographics of the captured audience and corresponding number , here means one Male Young Adult ( MYA ) is captured . To its left , shows a list of default ads , a list of recommended ads for the current audience and a list of relevant ads to the current playing ad . To its top , is the current playing advertisement .
Figure 2 . A screenshot of IAF demo interface .
The demo plays default ads in predefined order ( or random order ) when no audience is noticed . Once an audience watches the played ads , the demo will notice , capture , and track his/her face , and recognize gender and age bracket in real time . Then the demo will play the ads that the audience would be most interested in along with a recommended ad list based on predictive modeling . In addition to watching the played ad , the audience can select and play any of the recommended ads . When the audience selects other ads , a new list relevant to the selected ad will be provided to the audience for selection while the selected ad plays . The viewer event by the audience will be recorded and input to the predictive modeling . The predictive modeling correlates the features of the audience with the content of ads , discovers strong associations between them and creates the recommended ad list .
6 . CONCLUSION This paper proposed an Intelligent Advertising Framework , which integrates AVA and data mining to realize targeted advertising . By analyzing AVA viewership data collected from previous audience in front of a display , some viewing patterns can be discovered with data mining technology . These viewing patterns or advertising models can be deployed to the digital signs and then used to choose specific ads from the inventory of available content to intelligently target future audiences . An IAF demo was developed , shown at several internal events and industrial events and got wide recognition and great traction from the industry . The demo shows the latest advance of AVA technology and a novel usage of targeted advertising in digital signage industry . The demo also provides KDD community an excellent showcase of how to adopt intelligent technologies , AVA and data mining to bring customers real business values . An internal pilot of IAF was performed within Intel . The initial experimental results based on the collected data are very positive and validate the IAF solution . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Digital Signage . http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Digital_signage [ 2 ] Schaeffler , J . 2008 . Digital Signage : Software , Networks ,
Advertising , and Displays : A Primer for Understanding the business . Focal press , Burlington , MA USA , 2008
[ 3 ] Müller , J . , Wilmsmann , D . , Exeler , J . et al 2009 . Display
Blindness : The Effect of Expectations on Attention towards Digital Signage , Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Volume 5538 ( 2009 ) , 1 8 .
[ 4 ] Galeotti , J . L . Moraga Gonzalez 2004 . A Model of Strategic
Targeted Advertising . CESIFO Working Paper NO . 1196 . May 2004
[ 5 ] Payne , T . , David , E . , Jennings , N . R . and Sharifi , M . 2006 .
Auction mechanisms for efficient advertisement selection on public displays . In Proceedings of European Conference on Artificial Intelligence , pages 285–289 , 2006 .
[ 6 ] Tru Media . http://tru mediacom/ [ 7 ] Quividi . http://wwwquividicom/ [ 8 ] At Immersive Labs , Ads Watch Who Looks At Them . http://wwwhuffingtonpostcom/2011/04/25/immersivelabs_n_853555html [ 9 ] Targeted Advertising . http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Targeted_advertising
[ 10 ] Tian , P . , Sanjay , A . V . Malik , S . et al . 2012 . Realizing
Targeted Advertising in Digital Signage with AVA and Data Mining . In Proceedings of International MultiConference on Engineers and Computer Scientists 2012 , Mar . 14 16 , 2012 , Hong Kong .
[ 11 ] Intel AIM Suite . http://intelcognovisioncom/ [ 12 ] Slawsky , R . Audience Measurement with Anonymous Video
Analytics , http://globalnetworldalliancecom/downloads/white_papers/ NEC_WP_AVA%20Measurement_To%20Launch.pdf
1535
