Following the Electrons : Methods for Power Management in Commercial Buildings
Gowtham Bellala , Manish Marwah , Martin Arlitt , Geoff Lyon , Cullen Bash
Hewlett Packard Laboratories firstnamelastname@hpcom
ABSTRACT Commercial buildings are significant consumers of electricity . The first step towards better energy management in commercial buildings is monitoring consumption . However , instrumenting every electrical panel in a large commercial building is expensive and wasteful . In this paper , we propose a greedy meter ( sensor ) placement algorithm based on maximization of information gained , subject to a cost constraint . The algorithm provides a near optimal solution guarantee . Furthermore , to identify power saving opportunities , we use an unsupervised anomaly detection technique based on a low dimensional embedding . Further , to better manage resources such as lighting and HVAC , we propose a semi supervised approach combining hidden Markov models ( HMM ) and a standard classifier to model occupancy based on readily available port level network statistics .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Performance
Keywords Commercial buildings , power management , meter placement , anomaly detection , occupancy modeling
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In the United States alone , there are an estimated five million commercial buildings . In 2010 , these buildings consumed about 1.3 trillion kWh of electricity , roughly one third of the electricity generated in the country . The energy costs for commercial buildings exceeds $100 billion annually . Due to recent economic turmoil , and increased awareness of environmental concerns ( eg , global climate change ) , many companies want to reduce power use in their buildings . Often , they turn to consulting firms for services like building
$1500 energy efficiency analyses . The work described in this paper addresses shortcomings of existing analyses of this sort .
A first challenge for improving power use in a building is understanding how much power each appliance or device in the building uses . One option is to install power meters on all electrical panels , to collect usage data near the consumers , and get a ( approximate ) per appliance breakdown of power use . The main disadvantage of this approach is the cost to buy and install the meters . For companies that own a lot of buildings ( eg , Walmart has more than 10,000 stores globally ) , this cost becomes prohibitively expensive . Thus , one research question we address is where to place a limited set of meters in a building , while minimizing the information loss . We propose an efficient greedy algorithm that provides a near optimal solution .
A second challenge we investigate is how to systematically monitor building energy use and automatically detect problems that arise over time . A limitation of manual consulting services is that they can only identify issues that are occurring at the time the analysis is conducted , and typically only a limited number of panels are monitored , identified by an expert based on the likelihood of energy savings . Having a consultant repeat the study on a regular ( eg , daily ) basis is not cost effective , so an automated technique is highly desired . We present results from applying our unsupervised anomaly ( fault ) detection and ranking methods for monitoring tens of meters over a six month period .
Lastly , consulting studies will typically recommend static solutions to reduce building energy use . For example , turn on all lights only during work hours ( eg , 8am to 6pm ) , and turn most off otherwise . While such techniques do help reduce power use in a building , further savings are possible . One approach is to only turn on lights ( or HVAC systems ) in areas where people are currently in , and to turn them off when the people leave . To facilitate such dynamic resource management , we developed a semi supervised method for occupancy modeling .
Our group is instrumenting three large commercial buildings on the HP Labs campus in Palo Alto , CA . This instrumentation will provide extensive data on the campus power use , which will establish the “ ground truth ” against which we will evaluate our power management methods .
The paper makes the following contributions :
• It proposes a greedy algorithm for meter placement in a building ’s electrical infrastructure , to maximize mutual information while minimizing the cost of metering . Besides being computationally efficient , we also show that the proposed greedy algorithm guarantees a
994 1
2
3
4
5 5
6
Figure 1 : The HP Labs Palo Alto Campus . near optimal solution . In particular , we show that mutual information becomes submodular under a special graphical structure that arises in distribution networks such as power , water and gas .
• The meter placement results gauged by the ability of the selected meters to predict measurements of the unselected ones are better on average by about 15 % over other methods considered .
• The results are demonstrated for six months of data from a large test bed ( three buildings totaling 300,000 sq . ft ) The anomaly detection , and occupancy modeling techniques , described in more detail in [ 3 ] , are validated over this data set .
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows . Section 2 provides an overview of the HP Labs campus , the power delivery and measurement infrastructure , and the campus power use characteristics . Section 3 describes our KDD methods . Section 4 evaluates our methods . Section 5 discusses related work . Section 6 summarizes our work and future directions .
2 . CAMPUS OVERVIEW
The HP Labs campus contains six main buildings with a total footprint of 700,000 sq . ft . We are instrumenting three two storey buildings ( 1 , 2 , 3 ) , as highlighted in Figure 1 . These three buildings have a 300,000 sq . ft . footprint and host about 500 occupants .
2.1 Power Distribution Topology
Buildings 1 , 2 and 3 are powered by a single utility feed ( 3 phase 125kV ) An emergency generator ( 3 phase 480V ) maintains critical loads in the event of a utility failure . Automatic transfer switches ( ATS ) are used to revert from the utility to backup power . Each building has a main distribution panel ( 3 phase 480V ) that branches to about 10 major sub loads or sub panels . A 135kW photo voltaic array on top of Building 3 offsets power demand during daylight hours .
2.2 Power Data Collection
2.0
1.5
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.8
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
)
W M n i ( r e w o P l a e R
F o
60
40
Aggregate
Building 1
Building 2
Building 3
Outside Temperature
Jan−22−Sun Jan−23−Mon Jan−24−Tues Jan−25−Wed Jan−26−Thurs Jan−27−Fri Jan−28−Sat
Figure 2 : Campus power use and outside temperature . distribution panels in Buildings 1 3 . We are now instrumenting the second tier distribution panels within each building , to obtain finer grained electrical data for our future work .
The installed electrical meters are commercial ( 3 phase ) devices from Schneider Electric ( wwwschneider electric com ) . Data is retrieved from each meter every 10 seconds using the MODBUS over Ethernet protocol . The data includes metrics such as line voltage , real and apparent power , power factor , current and frequency . The data is stored in a PI Server from OSIsoft ( wwwosisoftcom )
2.3 Campus Power Use Characteristics
As further motivation for the challenges addressed in this paper , we briefly examine some characteristics of the campus power use.1 The top graph in Figure 2 shows the total power use for Buildings 1 3 over a one week period ( from Jan . 22 through Jan . 28 , 2012 ) . The peak load is nearly 2 MW ; understanding how to reduce this would translate directly to operational savings for the company . The base load is roughly 1.5 MW . An implication of this is very little insight on what is responsible for campus power consumption can be gleaned ( eg , via disaggregation techniques like [ 9 ] since none of the algorithms scale up to handle hundreds to thousands of loads present in commercial buildings , and further , none of the methods disaggregate base load ) from the aggregate power . This means that more meters must be installed . Our meter placement algorithm addresses the issue of how many meters are needed and where they are needed , to minimize the cost while maximizing the information obtained .
The middle three graphs in Figure 2 show the total power demand for Buildings 1 , 2 and 3 , respectively . The bottom graph shows the outside temperature . Comparing this graph to the others reveals a correlation between outside temperature , occupancy ( ie , work hours ) and power use . This motivates our investigation in Section 3.3 of occupancy modeling , to reduce the use of heating or cooling in areas of the building that people are not actively using .
3 . METHODS
Figure 3 shows the overall framework of our approach . The meter placement algorithm forms the basis for instrumenting a building power infrastructure . For building power management , we propose an unsupervised anomaly detection and ranking method based on low dimensional embed
To date , 33 power meters have been deployed on our campus . These include meters for building and top level load
1We expect these characteristics to exist with many other commercial buildings as well .
995 996 tion information at panels in A , where
H(XL ) = −XxL H(XL|XA ) = − XxL,xA
Pr(XL = xL ) log2 ( Pr(XL = xL ) ) , and
Pr(XL = xL , XA = xA ) log2 ( Pr(XL = xL|XA = xA ) ) .
Unfortunately , the optimization problem in ( 1 ) is NPhard . Hence , we propose a greedy approach to optimize the given problem . The greedy algorithm chooses panels for meter deployment in a sequential manner , where given the set of panels that have already been chosen by the algorithm ( denoted by A ) , the next best panel is chosen to be the one that maximizes the gain in mutual information , ie , j ∗ = arg max
I(XL ; XA∪j ) − I(XL ; XA ) . j /∈A
The solution obtained using the above greedy algorithm is not necessarily an optimal solution for the optimization problem in ( 1 ) . However , we show below that the obtained greedy solution is guaranteed to be near optimal .
313 Near optimality of greedy solution
To show that the solution obtained using the above greedy approach is near optimal , we rely on the theory of submodularity introduced by Nemhauser et al . [ 21 ] and popularized by the work of Krause et al . [ 14 , 13 ] .
Krause et al . [ 14 ] study budgeted maximization problems of the form arg max
F ( A )
A⊂S st
|A| ≤ k , where S = {1 , · · · , N } is a set of elements and F : A → R is a function that maps the set of elements to the real line . A greedy solution to this problem is to select elements sequentially according to j ∗ = arg max
F ( A ∪ j ) − F ( A ) . j /∈A
Krause et al . [ 14 ] show that the solution obtained using this greedy approach is near optimal in the following sense
Fgreedy ≥ 1 −
1 e Fopt , iff the objective function F is submodular , where submodularity is defined below .
Definition 1 . ( Submodularity ) Let F be a function that maps from a set of elements S to the real line R . Then , F is said to be submodular iff ∀A ⊆ B ⊆ S and for any j /∈ B ,
F ( A ∪ j ) − F ( A ) ≥ F ( B ∪ j ) − F ( B ) .
In our optimization problem , the objective function is mutual information , which unfortunately is not submodular , except for some known special cases [ 13 , 16 , 17 ] . However , as we will show below , in our problem setting , mutual information turns out to be submodular , thus guaranteeing near optimality of the above greedy algorithm .
Lemma 1 . Given the tree topology described in Section 3.1 , let S denote the set of nodes in the tree and L the set of leaf nodes . Then , ∀A ⊆ B ⊆ S , and for any j /∈ B ,
I(XL ; XA∪j ) − I(XL ; XA ) ≥ I(XL ; XB∪j ) − I(XL ; XB )
( 2 )
Proof . From the definition of mutual information , we have
I(XL ; XA∪j ) − I(XL ; XA ) = H(XL|XA ) − H(XL|XA∪j )
= H(Xj|XA ) − H(Xj|XL , XA ) , ( 3 ) where the second equality follows from the first by expanding the entropy terms and by simple manipulation of the resulting terms . Note that the second term in ( 3 ) is equal to 0 , ie , H(Xj|XL , XA ) = 0 , as given the power consumption at all the leaf nodes , the power consumption at any panel upstream is completely deterministic .
Hence , the relation in ( 2 ) reduces to showing
H(Xj|XA ) ≥ H(Xj|XB ) , which follows from the principle of “ information never hurts ” in information theory [ 5 ] . Thus , proving the submodularity of mutual information under the given tree topology .
314 Use of Granger Causality
Another strategy to select meters would be by applying Granger causality , which considers the direction of flow of information unlike mutual information . Note that this could be remedied by the use of Transfer entropy , which is a version of mutual information that can detect the direction of information flow [ 24 ] , however , transfer entropy is currently restricted to bivariate situations .
Granger Causality ( or G causality ) test , which was initially introduced in the field of economics [ 8 ] , is a statistical hypothesis test for determining whether one time series is useful in forecasting another . It is normally tested in the context of linear regression models . For example , let X(t ) and Y ( t ) be two time series . Consider the following two auto regressive models for predicting X(t )
X(t ) =
X(t ) = p
Xj=1 Xj=1 p ajX(t − j ) + e1(t ) ajX(t − j ) + p
Xj=1 bjY ( t − j ) + e2(t ) , where p is the maximum number of lagged observations included in the model , and e1(t ) , e2(t ) are the prediction errors ( residuals ) for the two regression models . If the variance in the prediction error is reduced by the inclusion of Y ( t ) in the model , then Y is said to G cause X . In other words , Y is said to G cause X if the coefficients in {bj}p j=1 are jointly significantly different from zero .
This test could potentially be used to reveal any hidden causal relationships between the loads ( leaf nodes in the tree topology ) . Incorporating these relationships could further lead to a better choice of panels for meter deployment .
3.2 Anomaly Detection
Anomaly ( or fault ) detection is useful in detecting abnormal behavior in the power usage data collected from a
997 998 999 1000 1001 6 . CONCLUSIONS
Commercial buildings consume significant amounts of energy . Concerns over energy prices and global climate change are motivating building operators to reduce energy consumption . In this paper , we propose and evaluate three methods to aid in this effort . Our meter placement algorithm is both efficient and effective , guaranteeing a near optimal solution to information maximization by exploiting submodularity . In comparisons with other methods , the ability of the meter set selected using our algorithm to predict the measurements of the unselected meter set were found to be superior ( by an average of about 15% ) . Our anomaly detection method is shown to identify numerous types of unexpected consumption patterns . Lastly , our occupancy modeling approach can be used to dynamically control lighting or HVAC resources , thereby reducing their energy consumption .
We plan to extend our work in several ways . We intend to leverage occupancy modeling results for enhancing anomaly detection . Further , we plan to automate the anomaly characterization task , and extend our algorithm to incorporate feedback from a building administrator . In addition , we are increasing instrumentation on our campus , to aid in validating our methods . Finally , further methods may be developed as we evolve our test bed into a demonstrator .
7 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] http://wwwscholarpediaorg/article/Granger_ causality .
[ 2 ] Y . Agarwal , B . Balaji , J . Lyles , M . Wei , and T . Weng .
Occupancy driven energy management for smart building automation . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Zurich , Switzerland , 2010 .
[ 3 ] G . Bellala , M . Manish , M . Arlitt , G . Lyon , and
C . Bash . Towards an understanding of campus scale power consumption . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , 2011 .
[ 4 ] V . Catterson , S . McArthur , and G . Moss . Online conditional anomaly detection in multivariate data for transformer monitoring . IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery , 25(4):2556–2564 , 2010 .
[ 5 ] T . M . Cover and J . A . Thomas . Elements of
Information Theory . Wiley Interscience , 1991 .
[ 6 ] R . O . Duda , P . E . Hart , and D . G . Stork . Pattern Classification . Wiley , New York , 2 . edition , 2001 . [ 7 ] V . Erickson , Y . Lin , A . Kamthe , and R . Brahme .
Energy efficient building environment control strategies using real time occupancy measurements . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Berkeley , CA , 2009 .
[ 11 ] V . Jakkula and D . Cook . Outlier detection in smart environment structured power datasets . In IEEE Intelligent Systems , London , UK , 2010 .
[ 12 ] Y . Kim , R . Balani , H . Zhao , and M . Srivastava .
Granger causality analysis on ip traffic and circuit level energy monitoring . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Zurich , Switzerland , 2010 .
[ 13 ] A . Krause and C . Guestrin . Near optimal nonmyopic value of information in graphical models . Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence ( UAI ) , 2005 .
[ 14 ] A . Krause and C . Guestrin . A note on the budgeted maximization of submodular functions . Technical report , CMU CALD 05 103 , 2005 .
[ 15 ] A . Krause and C . Guestrin . Near optimal observation selection using submodular functions . National Conference on Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) , 2007 .
[ 16 ] A . Krause , C . Guestrin , A . Gupta , and J . Kleinberg .
Near optimal sensor placements : Maximizing information while minimizing communication cost . International Symposium on Information Processing in Sensor Networks ( IPSN ) , 2006 .
[ 17 ] A . Krause , A . Singh , and C . Guestrin . Near optimal sensor placements in gaussian processes : Theory , efficient algorithms and empirical studies . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 9:235–284 , 2008 .
[ 18 ] J . Leskovec , A . Krause , C . Guestrin , C . Faloutsos ,
J . VanBriesen , and N . Glance . Cost effective outbreak detection in networks . ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ( KDD ) , pages 420–429 , 2007 .
[ 19 ] X . Li , C . Bowers , and T . Schnier . Classification of energy consumption of a building with outlier detection . IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics , 57(11):3639–3644 , 2010 .
[ 20 ] R . Melfi , , B . Rosenblum , B . Nordman , and
K . Christensen . Measuring building occupancy using existing network infrastructure . International Green Computing Conference , 2011 .
[ 21 ] G . Nemhauser , L . Wolsey , and M . Fisher . An analysis of the approximations for maximizing submodular set functions . Mathematical Programming , 1978 .
[ 22 ] G . Newsham and B . Birt . Building level occupancy data to improve ARIMA based electricity use forecasts . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Zurich , Switzerland , 2010 .
[ 23 ] A . Rice , S . Hay , and D . Ryder Cook . A limited data model of building energy consumption . In ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Zurich , Switzerland , 2010 .
[ 24 ] T . Schreiber . Measuring information transfer . Physical
[ 8 ] C . W . J . Granger . Investigating causal relations by
Review Letters , 85:461–464 , 2000 . econometric models and cross spectral methods . Econometrica , 1969 .
[ 9 ] G . Hart . Nonintrusive appliance load monitoring . Proceedings of the IEEE , 80(2):1870–1891 , 1992 .
[ 10 ] S . Hay and A . Rice . The case for apportionment . In
ACM Workshop on Embedded Sensing Systems for Energy Efficiency in Buildings ( BuildSys ) , Berkeley , CA , 2009 .
[ 25 ] United States Energy Information Administration .
Annual energy review 2010 . http://wwweiagov/aer , 2011 .
1002
