A Study on the Impact of Product Images on User Clicks for Online Shopping
Anjan Goswami eBay Search angoswami@ebay.com
Naren Chittar eBay Search nchittar@ebay.com
Chung H . Sung eBay Search suchung@ebay.com
ABSTRACT In this paper we study the importance of image based features on the click through rate ( CTR ) in the context of a large scale product search engine . Typically product search engines use text based features in their ranking function . We present a novel idea of using image based features , common in the photography literature , in addition to text based features . We used a stochastic gradient boosting based regression model to learn relationships between features and CTR . Our results indicate statistically significant correlations between the image features and CTR . We also see improvements to NDCG and mean standard regression .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H.4 [ Information Systems Applications]:Miscellaneous
General Terms : Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords : product images , online shopping , shopping search
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online shopping constitutes a significant portion of commerce . Convenience is the biggest advantage of online shopping , but the inability to touch and feel the product is a big drawback . Therefore , images play an important role in online shopping . Good quality images provide better user experience by providing a better idea of the product features and condition .
Product search engines are the main gateways for of online shopping sites . Typically users use the search engines to look for products that they are interested in . The search results page ( SRP ) contains a list of products , with each entry containing the product image , the product title , product summary and various attributes like price , condition , seller name etc . The users browse images and the text and then decide which ones to click to navigate into the details page . Many product search engines are small in scale and there is editorial review of product images to control the quality of an image . So usually only high quality images are displayed . However , in a large scale social online market like eBay , there is no central quality control over the images is not feasible , the variance in the quality of product images is large . In such cases , it might be important to incorporate image features in the ranking models so that relevant results with good images ranked higher compared with relevant results with bad images . Additionally , this can act as
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . an incentive for the sellers to make an effort to make their images better , resulting in a higher number of better quality images , thereby improving the brand value of the product search engine . Hence there might be a long term value in incorporating image based features in ranking .
In this paper , we first discuss what kind of image features may be important for online product images and then we present a study on how we can use these feature to improve regression CTR ranking models .
2 .
IMAGE QUALITY FEATURES
We divide the image features into two classes . Global features : These features are global statistics computed over the whole image .
Brightness : Brightness is an important factor since it represents the amount of illumination . We used the following normalized average gray scale intensity from the RGB space as brightness . 0.3R + 0.6G + 01B
Contrast : This quantity represents the variation in brightness that makes an object appear more clear . There are different kinds of contrast measures in the image processing M−1 literature based on various studies of human perception . We used root mean square contrast [ 4 ] that is computed as folj=0 ( Iij − I ) where M × N is the size of the image and I is the gray scale intensity and I is the average intensity .
N−1
1
M N i=0 lows :
Regional features : A typical product image consists of a product ( foreground ) which is placed on a background . The regional features are statistics similar to the global statistics but are computed separately for the background and the foreground . Important information can be derived by looking at the foreground and background individually and also in comparison with each other . We use a Graphcut [ 3 ] based approach to segment the image into a background and foreground . The basic Graphcut algorithm requires some manual input . We modified Graphcut using some heuristics to achieve fully automated segmentation . We compute the following features .
Lightness of background : We observe that a good product image typically has a light colored background . We computed the standard deviation and mean of the background pixels and then measured the L2 distance from the white color in the RGB color space(R=255,B=255,G=255 ) . We then take a linear combination of the mean and the stdev as follows αµ + βσ where µ is the mean and σ is the standard deviation . α and β are two constants . We used α = 1 and β = 03
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India45 Colorfulness of foreground : Colorfulness is a quantity that is related to the human perception of color . There is extensive research available on perceptual quality of color and there are many different empirical expressions for colorfulness . We use an expression that appeared in a paper by Hasler [ 2 ] based on sRGB color space .
Ratio of background and foreground In this feature , we compute the ratio of the area of the foreground and the background . A larger ratio indicates a larger product image in the image frame .
3 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
Our datasets were derived from eBay ’s actual query logs . They consist of tuples of the form ( query , product id , CTR ) . A tuple consists of a query that users typed , a product id that they clicked on and the CTR for that product id . The CTR for a product is defined as number of clicks per impression for an item . We used 150,000 query product pairs chosen randomly . We used Salford systems ’s TreeNet [ 1 ] , which is a boosted tree based regression model , to predict CTR . We used a 10 fold crossvalidation method for testing . We trained two versions of the model one with just text based features and the one with text as well as image features . We observed that the mean standard error for regression is reduced if we add image features into the model . We also observed an improvement in NDCG ( where NDCG is computed using human judgment data ) . The table 1 summarizes the results . The results a slight improvement in NDCG at 5th and 10th position and also and also a slight improvement in reducing the mean standard error for the regression .
Our current dataset includes data from all eBay categories ranging from fashion to tickets . Categories like fashion have a greater visual component to it than a category like tickets . The result that we report is the average increase across all these diverse categories . We think that the DCG improvement will be larger for categories like fashion where images are more important . We plan to investigate these questions in future work .
TreeNet also provides a significance rank for each feature and we observed that a large number of the image features were in the top 25 features , out of a total of 100+ features used . Also note that the colorfulness of foreground and the rms contrast turn out to be the two most important image features for ranking .
The above experiment answers the question that image features have the power to predict CTR . It however does not answer the question whether better images means better CTR . This is because a tree based model are non linear and can have different correlations in different regions of the feature subspace .
In another experiment , we wanted to measure the correlation of CTR with image based features . To keep other factors like price , type etc , we created a dataset of about 4000 items from the fashion category . This included jeans which are new in a certain narrow price range . We conducted a correlation study with image features with CTR . The tables 2 and 3 show the result of the study . We report ρ , which is the Spearman ’s rank coefficient in the table and also the “ p value ” for the experiments . It shows that these image features are correlated with CTR and the correlations are statistically significant . We see that the lightness of the background is most correlated with CTR and this conforms
Models No image factors With image factors
MSE NDCG 5 NDCG 10 .0209 .0207
0.8719 0.8761
.8092 .8151
Table 1 : Regression study with image features
Global features Contrast Brightness ρ p value
.14 10−6
0.10 10−8
Table 2 : Correlation study with image features with the anecdotal marketing wisdom that a product picture in a lighter background better emphasizes the actual object in the image . Although , it is evident that the correlations are not very strong since we think there is an effect of relevance in this correlation study . It is important to notice that the importance of the features as ranked by TreeNet ( regression ) can be different than the importance of the features based on correlation study .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we find that the product image features can have an impact on user search behavior . We find that some image features have correlation with CTR in a product search engine and that that these features can help in modeling click through rate for shopping search applications . This study can provide sellers with an incentive to submit better images for products that they sell . This has a potential to improve the brand value for the shopping site and thus have long term positive impact . In our future work , we plan to study more image features and their impact , particularly on visually characterized products such as fashion items .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . H . Friedman and O . K . ( y X) values . Stochastic gradient boosting . Computational Statistics and Data Analysis , 38:367–378 , 1999 .
[ 2 ] D . Hasler and S . E . Suesstrunk . Measuring colorfulness in natural images . Proceeding of SPIE Electron . Imag . : Human Vision and Electron . Imag . VIII , 5007:87–95 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] M . Marsh , S . Bangay , and A . Lobb . Implementing the grabcut segmentation technique as a plugin for the gimp . In Proceedings of the 4th international conference on Computer graphics , virtual reality , visualisation and interaction in Africa , pages 171–175 . ACM , 2006 .
[ 4 ] E . Peli . Contrast in complex images . Journal of Optical
Society of America , 7(10):2032–2040 , 1990 .
Reg features BG light . FG Color . FG BG Area ρ p value
.21 10−16
.10 10−6
.15 10−4
Table 3 : Correlation study with image features
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India46
