Linguistic Style Accommodation in Social Media
Mark My Words!
Cristian Danescu Niculescu Mizil
Cornell University
Michael Gamon Microsoft Research
∗
Ithaca , NY 14853,USA cristian@cscornelledu
Redmond , WA 98053,USA mgamon@microsoft.com
Susan Dumais Microsoft Research
Redmond , WA 98053,USA sdumais@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT The psycholinguistic theory of communication accommodation accounts for the general observation that participants in conversations tend to converge to one another ’s communicative behavior : they coordinate in a variety of dimensions including choice of words , syntax , utterance length , pitch and gestures . In its almost forty years of existence , this theory has been empirically supported exclusively through smallscale or controlled laboratory studies . Here we address this phenomenon in the context of Twitter conversations . Undoubtedly , this setting is unlike any other in which accommodation was observed and , thus , challenging to the theory . Its novelty comes not only from its size , but also from the non real time nature of conversations , from the 140 character length restriction , from the wide variety of social relation types , and from a design that was initially not geared towards conversation at all . Given such constraints , it is not clear a priori whether accommodation is robust enough to occur given the constraints of this new environment . To investigate this , we develop a probabilistic framework that can model accommodation and measure its effects . We apply it to a large Twitter conversational dataset specifically developed for this task . This is the first time the hypothesis of linguistic style accommodation has been examined ( and verified ) in a large scale , real world setting .
Furthermore , when investigating concepts such as stylistic influence and symmetry of accommodation , we discover a complexity of the phenomenon which was never observed before . We also explore the potential relation between stylistic influence and network features commonly associated with social status .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences
General Terms : Measurement , Experimentation , Theory
Keywords : linguistic style accommodation , linguistic convergence , social media , Twitter conversations
∗The research described herein was conducted while the first author was a summer intern at Microsoft Research .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0632 4/11/03 .
Language is a social art .
—Willard van Orman Quine , Word and Object
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The theory of communication accommodation was developed to account for the general observation that in conversations people tend to nonconsciously converge to one another ’s communicative behavior : they coordinate in a variety of dimensions including choice of words , syntax , pausing frequency , pitch and gestures [ 12 ] . In the last forty years , this phenomenon has received significant attention and numerous studies indicate that such convergence occurs almost instantly for a very diverse set of communication patterns ( see Table 1 for examples ) . These findings suggest that the communicative behavior of conversational partners are “ patterned and coordinated , like a dance ” [ 32 ] . However , up to now this “ dance ” was exclusively studied in controlled laboratory experiments or through small scale studies . The work presented here demonstrates for the first time the robustness of accommodation theory in a large scale , real world environment : Twitter .
Conversations on Twitter : a new hope . Even though not originally developed as a conversation medium , Twitter turns out to be a fertile ground for dyadic interactions . It is estimated that a quarter of all its users hold conversations with other users on this platform [ 22 ] and that around 37 % of all tweets are conversational [ 36 ] . The fact that these conversations are public renders Twitter one of the largest publicly available resources of naturally occurring conversations .
Undoubtedly , Twitter conversations are unlike those used in previous studies of accommodation . One of the main differences is that these conversations are not face to face and do not happen in real time . Like with email , a user does not need to immediately reply to another user ’s message ; this might affect the incentive to use accommodation as a way to increase communication efficiency . Another difference is the ( famous ) restriction of 140 characters per message , which might constrain the freedom one user has to accommodate the other . It is not a priori clear whether accommodation is robust enough to occur under these new constraints .
Also , with very few exceptions , accommodation was only tested in the initial phase of the development of relations between people ( ie , during the acquaintance process ) [ 11 ] . The relations between Twitter users , on the other hand , are expected to cover a much wider spectrum of development , ranging from newly introduced to old friends ( or enemies ) .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India745 Thus , also from this perspective , the Twitter environment constitutes a new challenge to the theory .
Linguistic style accommodation . One of the dimensions on which people were shown to accommodate is linguistic style [ 32 , 39 , 14 ] , where style denotes the components of language that are unrelated to content : how things are said as opposed to what is said . This work will focus on this type of accommodation . This is a rather important dimension , since , even though only 0.05 % of the English vocabulary is composed of style words ( such as articles and prepositions ) , an estimated 55 % of all words people employ are style words [ 38 ] . These numbers do not necessarily hold on Twitter , where one might expect style to be sacrificed in favor of content given the length constraint ; however , some recent studies also advocate for the importance of style in Twitter [ 8 , 24 , 35 ] . Linguistic style has also been central to a series of NLP applications like authorship attribution and forensic linguistics [ 30 , 41 , 18 , 23 ] , gender detection [ 25 , 31 , 17 ] and personality type detection [ 1 ] .
Linguistic style is also known to be , for the most part , generated and processed nonconsciously [ 26 ] , and thus a suitable vehicle for studying the phenomenon of accommodation , which itself is assumed to occur nonconsciously .
Probabilistic framework . Previous work on accommodation relied mainly on simple correlation based measures . A new framework is necessary in order to correctly model and measure the effects of linguistic style accommodation in a real world , uncontrolled environment . The main desirables from such a framework are :
• Comparability : the effects of accommodation on dif ferent components of style should be comparable .
• Expressivity : the framework should be expressive enough to permit the evaluation of particular properties of accommodation ( discussed in Section 2 ) .
• Purity : accommodation should not be confounded with other phenomena .
The last of these desirables is probably the hardest to achieve and thus deserves some discussion here . The main challenge is to distinguish accommodation from the effects of homophily : people that converse are likely to employ a similar linguistic style simply because they know each other . As detailed in Section 5 , we control for this effect by using the temporal aspect specific to accommodation : a person can accommodate to her conversational partner only after receiving her input . Another type of potential confusion is that between linguistic style accommodation and topic accommodation ; this is avoided in this work by a careful selection of the stylistic features following a methodology employed in psycholinguistic literature ( discussed in Section 4 ) .
Stylistic influence and symmetry . Another advantage of the proposed framework is that a new concept of stylistic influence emerges naturally : given two conversational partners , one can influence the style of the other more than viceversa . This concept is a finer grained version of the concept of symmetry of accommodation proposed in the psycholinguisic literature [ 12 ] : accommodation can occur symmetrically when both participants in a conversation accommodate to each other or asymmetrically when only one accommodates . In the latter case , the non accommodating participant can either maintain her default behavior , or adjust her behavior in the opposite direction from that of the accommodating participant ( ie , diverge ) . We are able to show that imbalance in stylistic influence between Twitter users is preponderant and that symmetry in accommodation is dependent on the stylistic dimension ( Figure 4 ) ; for example , users are more likely to accommodate symmetrically on the use of 1st person singular pronouns but to accommodate asymmetrically on the use of prepositions . This is the first time such a rich complexity of the accommodation phenomenon is revealed .
A variety of studies relate accommodation and social status . For example , it was hypothesized that a person of lower status will try to accommodate to a person of higher status in order to gain her approval [ 11 , 37 ] . We take the first steps towards understanding the relation between the concepts of stylistic influence and social status , as reflected in Twitter network features , like number of followers and number of friends , that could be considered ( rough ) proxies for social status ( Section 63 ) Rather surprisingly , we observe almost no correlation between these features and stylistic influence .
Applicability . Apart from its appealing theoretical importance , accommodation also has a variety of potential practical uses . Based on the premise that accommodation has a subtle positive effect on interpersonal communication , Giles et al . [ 13 ] discusses applications of accommodation in mediating police civilian interactions . On a similar note , Taylor and Thomas [ 39 ] shows its relevance in the context of hostage negotiations . Accommodation was also shown to be practical in the treatment of mental disability [ 16 ] and psychotherapy [ 9 ] . In Section 8 we also venture into proposing three new potential applications specific to linguistic style accommodation . We believe that by providing a way to model accommodation and by demonstrating its robustness in a real world environment , the present work provides a framework which supports a wider implementation of such applications .
2 . COMMUNICATION ACCOMMODATION
THEORY
The psycholinguistic theory of communication accommodation was developed around the following main hypothesis : in dyadic conversations the participants converge to one another ’s communicative behavior in terms of a wide range of dimensions [ 12 ] , both verbal and non verbal . Table 1 provides a sample of such converging dimensions . Many studies seem to indicate that the communicative behaviors of the participants “ are patterned and coordinated , like a dance ” [ 32 ] .
Among various properties of accommodation discussed in the literature , here we briefly review a few that are relevant to our work . First , one should keep in mind that the coordination occurs nonconsciously . Second , accommodation does not necessarily occur simultaneously on all dimensions , as shown in [ 9 ] . Moreover , convergence on some dimensions does not exclude divergence on others : for example , [ 3 ] showed that when conversing with males , females converged on frequency of pauses but diverged on laughter . Another property that is relevant to this work is that of symme
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India746 Table 1 : Examples of dimensions for which accommodation was observed and the respective studies .
Canonical study Condon and Ogston , 1967 Jaffe and Feldstein , 1970
Dimension Posture Pause length Utterance length Matarazzo and Wiens , 1973 Self disclosure Head nodding Backchannels Linguistic style
Derlenga et al . , 1973 Hale and Burgoon , 1984 White , 1989 Niederhoffer and Pennebaker , 2002 try of accommodation : accommodation can occur symmetrically when both participants in a conversation accommodate to each other or asymmetrically when only one accommodates . For example , White [ 40 ] presents a study in which Americans accommodate to Japanese on the frequency of backchannels ( eg , ‘hmm’ , ‘uh huh’ ) but the Japanese did not reciprocate . Asymmetric accommodation has two flavors , depending on the behavior of the non accommodating participant :
• Default asymmetry : the non accommodating participant maintains her default behavior ( like in the previous example ) ;
• Divergent asymmetry : the non accommodating participant adjusts her behavior in the opposite direction from that of the accommodating participant ( ie , diverges ) [ 12 ] .
It is also worth pointing out that the subject of this work is instant accommodation , occuring from one conversational turn to another . Long term accommodation is considered to be a separate phenomenon with potentially different properties [ 9 , 12 ] . With a few notable exceptions [ 9 , 32 ] , empirical support for long term accommodation is absent mostly due to the necessity of longitudinal data .
Various potential explanations for why accommodation occurs have been proposed . One hypothesis is that accommodation occurs from a desire to increase communicational efficiency [ 37 ] . Another hypothesis is that a person ’s convergence to another person ’s communicative patterns is ( nonconsciously ) driven by the desire gain the other ’s social approval [ 11 , 37 ] . Yet another possible motivation is that accommodation is used to “ maintain a positive social identity ” [ 20 ] with the other . The last two hypotheses and several other studies draw a clear relation between social status and accommodation ( see also [ 12] ) , which will become relevant later in our discussion .
In the present work the focus is on linguistic style accommodation , and therefore the work of Niederhoffer and Pennebaker [ 32 ] is particularly relevant , being the first study to quantify this phenomenon . It consists of two controlled laboratory experiments ( involving 94 dyads ) and one study based on transcripts of the Watergate tapes ( conversations between Nixon and 3 of his aides ) in which coordination on various linguistic style dimensions , like usage of prepositions , adverbs and tentative words is shown to occur between the participants .
In its almost forty years of existence , communication accommodation theory was empirically supported exclusively through small scale studies or controlled laboratory experi ments . Also the respective studies focused mainly on realtime interactions ( mostly face to face , but sometimes computer mediated like in [ 32] ) . With this work we aim to change this state of affairs and demonstrate the robustness of this theory in a large scale , real world environment where conversations are not as richly supported as they are in realtime interactions .
3 . CONVERSATIONAL DATA
As discussed in Section 1 , Twitter is a good environment for our study not only because of its fertility in dyadic interactions , but also because it poses new challenges to the theory of communication accommodation in terms of robustness .
Drawing from this resource , Ritter et al .
[ 36 ] builds the largest conversational corpus available to date , made up of 1.3 million conversations between 300,000 users . We will refer to this corpus as conversational dataset A . In spite of its size , this corpus presents some major drawbacks with respect to the purpose of this paper . First , it has a low density of conversations per pair of conversing users : on average only 4.3 conversations per user ; this is not sufficient to model the linguistic style of each pair individually ( as required by the accommodation framework proposed in this work and detailed in Section 5 ) . Also , more than half of the pairs of users in this dataset only have unidirectional interaction , ie , one of the users in a pair never writes to the other . This would not introduce a bias with respect to the type of conversations and relations studied ( unidirectional interaction are generally not classified as normal conversations ) , but would also drastically limit the potential to compare accommodation between users .
To overcome these limitations , we construct a new conversational dataset with very high density of conversations per pair and with reciprocated interactions . We start from conversational dataset A and select all pairs in which both users initiated a conversation at least 2 times . We then collect all tweets posted by these users using the Twitter API1 and then reconstruct all the conversations between the selected pair . The resulting dataset contains 15 million tweets which make up the complete2 public twitter activity ( aka public timeline ) of 7,800 users ; for each user Twitter metadata ( such as the number of friends , the number of followers , the location , etc . ) is also available . From these tweets we reconstructed 215,000 conversations between the 2,200 pairs of users with reciprocal relations selected from conversational dataset A , using the same methodology for reconstructing conversations employed in [ 36]3 . This conversational dataset is complete , in the sense that all twitter conversations ever held within each pair are available . To the best of our knowledge , this is the largest complete conversational dataset .
The diversity of the user relations and conversations contained in this conversational dataset , dubbed conversational dataset B . , is illustrated in the following table summarizing per pair statistics :
1http://apiwikitwittercom/ 2Complete up to a maximum 3200 most recent tweets per user , a limitation imposed by the Twitter API . 3Additionally , we remove self replies and retweets from the data on the belief that they do not make part of a proper dyadic interaction .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India747 Number of conversations Average number of turns Days of contact
Mean Median Min Max 1744 16.8 886
60 2.6 257
98 2.7 270
1 2 1
The main unit of interaction in this work is a conversational turn , which is defined as two consecutive tweets in a conversation . The two tweets in a turn are always sent by different users and are not re tweets . Conversational dataset A contains 2.6 million turns and conversational dataset B contains 420,000 turns.4
4 . MEASURING LINGUISTIC STYLE
Miller [ 28 ] shows that style and topic are processed differently in the brain . The distinction between the two is important in our investigation of linguistic style accommodation . In order to measure style and avoid confusion with topic we follow a psycholinguistic methodology used in a variety of applications , known as the LIWC Linguistic Inquiry Word Count ( LIWC ) method .
LIWC [ 34 ] measures word use in psychologically meaningful categories ( eg , articles , auxiliary verbs , positive emotions ) . It uses over 60 such categories , and dictionaries of words related to each category . This method has been used in a variety of applications ( summarized in [ 38 ] ) including to identify social relations , mental health , and individual traits such as gender , age and relative status . More importantly LIWC is the basis of all recent work on linguistic style accommodation [ 32 , 39 , 14 ] to which we want to relate .
Following the example of these studies , we eliminate all categories related to topic , such as Leisure , Religion or Death . We refer to the 50 remaining dimensions as style dimensions . In order to facilitate the presentation of the empirical results , we will focus our discussion on a subset of 14 dimensions that we call strictly non topical style dimensions :
Dimension Article Certainty Conjunction Discrepancy Exclusive Inclusive Indefinite pronoun Negation Preposition Quantifier Tentative 1st person singular pronoun 1st person plural pronoun 2nd person pronoun
Examples an , the always , never but , whereas should , would without , exclude with , include it , those not , never to , with few , much maybe , perhaps I , me we , us you , your
Size 3 83 28 76 17 18 46 57 60 89 155 12 12 20
For completeness , we mention that all the results presented in this paper also holds for all the other style dimensions ( see [ 38 ] for a complete list ) , unless otherwise noted .
We say that a tweet exhibits a given stylistic dimension if it contains at least one word from the respective LIWC vocabulary . A tweet can exhibit multiple dimensions and , in fact , the vast majority do .
Although we experimented with different methods of extending the LIWC vocabularies with Twitter specific expressions , we prefer to keep in line with previous literature on linguistic style matching by using the original vocabularies .
5 . PROBABILISTIC FRAMEWORK
This section introduces a probabilistic framework that can model the phenomenon of accommodation . In defining such a framework , the desirable properties discussed in Section 1 are accounted for : comparability , expressivity and purity . Although designed to be applicable to any type of conversational data and style dimensions , for notational consistency with the rest of the paper , we use the term “ tweet ” to refer to a conversational utterance . 5.1 Stylistic cohesion
We start by addressing the more general phenomenon of stylistic cohesion . It reflects the intuition that tweets belonging to the same conversation are closer stylistically than tweets that do not . Cohesion is defined by comparing the probability that a stylistic dimension is exhibited in tweets that are part of a conversation with the probability that the same dimension is exhibited in unrelated tweets . If the former equals the latter , it means that the distribution of the stylistic dimension is the same whether tweets are part of a conversation or not . If the former is larger than the latter , it means that tweets in a conversation tend to “ agree ” with respect to the stylistic dimension . If the former is smaller than the latter , it means that tweets in a conversation tend to “ disagree ” with respect to the stylistic dimension . Formally , for a given dimension C , the measure of stylistic cohesion can be expressed through the following probabilistic expression :
” − P
“ T C ∧ RC ”
( 1 )
“
Coh(C ) P
T C ∧ RC | T ↔ R where T C ( respectively RC ) is the event in which a tweet T ( respectively R ) exhibits C , and T ↔ R is the condition that tweets T and R form a conversational turn5 . Thus , demonstrating that cohesion is observable for stylistic dimension C is reduced to showing that Coh(C ) > 0 .
It should be emphasized that accommodation is only one of the possible causes for stylistic cohesion . Another explanation can be the indirect effect of homophily already discussed in Section 1 : people that converse are likely to employ a similar linguistic style simply because they know each other or are like each other ( we will refer to this as background style similarity ) . This observation motivates the need for a measure which can exclusively target accommodation , discussed next . 5.2 Stylistic accommodation
When defining a probabilistic framework for linguistic style accommodation it is important to control for the effects of background style similarity ( and provide the purity desiderata introduced in Section 1 ) . Here this is achieved by measuring accommodation for each user pair separately and by taking into account the distinctive temporal nature of accommodation : a user can accommodate to her conversational partner only after receiving her input . In doing so , the concern is eliminated because a confusion with background style similarity effects , like homophily , would not be expected to cause differences within a single pair depending on whether one or the other user in a pair initiates a conversational turn . Therefore , the goal is to measure for a given
4We are unable to make the data public at the time of publication in consideration of the Twitter terms of service .
5The sample space considered throughout this work is the set of all possible ordered conversational tweet pairs .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India748 pair of users a and b who engage in a conversation whether the use of a stylistic dimension C in the initial tweet ( of user a ) increases the probability of that stylistic dimension in the reply ( of user b ) beyond what is normally expected from user b ( when replying to user a ) .
Formally , for a given stylistic dimension C and pair of users ( a , b ) , the accommodation of user b to user a is measured by how much the fact that user a exhibits C in a tweet Ta increases the probability of b to also exhibit C in a reply to Ta : Acc(a,b)(C ) P
” − P b | Tb → Ta T C b | T C T C a , Tb → Ta
”
“
“
( 2 ) a ( respectively T C where T C b ) is the event in which a tweet posted by user a ( respectively b ) exhibits C , and Tb → Ta is the condition that Tb is a reply to Ta . This condition , present in both the minuend and the subtrahend6 , has the role of restricting this measure of accommodation only to replies of b to a , therefore controlling for differences in the background linguistic similarity between users . Also note that by using the → condition instead of the ↔ condition employed in the definition of cohesion ( 1 ) , we embed the distinctive temporal aspect of accommodation mentioned earlier . This ability to integrate temporal disparity is an essential advantage of this framework over the correlation based measures previously used in studies of stylistic accommodation [ 32 , 39 , 14]7 .
Since the main goal is to address global accommodation ( as opposed to the within pair accommodation described above ) , the accommodation for a given dimension C is defined as :
Acc(C ) = E[Acc(a,b)(C ) ]
( 3 ) where the expectation is taken over all possible conversing pairs ( a , b ) . Under this framework , proving that accommodation is observable for stylistic dimension C is reduced to showing that Acc(C ) > 0 . 5.3 Stylistic influence and symmetry
One important property of the way Acc is defined is its asymmetry : the accommodation of user b to user a on stylistic dimension C is potentially different from the accommodation of user a to user b on the same stylistic dimension . The notion of stylistic influence arises naturally : I(a,b)(C ) Acc(a,b)(C ) − Acc(b,a)(C )
( 4 ) for a given stylistic dimension C . If I(a,b)(C ) > 0 we can say that b accommodates more to a on C than b does to a .
A related concept is accommodation symmetry ( discussed in Section 2 ) , which is tied to to the accommodation measure in the following way . Given that b accommodates to a , i.e Acc(a,b)(C ) > 0 , we have
• Symmetry when Acc(b,a)(C ) > 0 , • Default asymmetry when Acc(b,a)(C ) = 0 , • Divergent asymmetry when : Acc(b,a)(C ) < 0
6 . EMPIRICAL VALIDATION
Equipped with the probabilistic framework introduced in the previous section , here we proceed with an empirical validation of the accommodation phenomenon on the conversation data described in Section 3 . As previously discussed , this setting is fundamentally different from all other circumstances in which the theory of communication accommodation was validated , therefore challenging its robustness . 6.1 Validation of stylistic cohesion
We start by asking whether Twitter conversations are characterized by stylistic cohesion , since this is a precondition for accommodation . The stylistic cohesion model described in Section 5.1 does not distinguish between users and therefore can be directly applied to the conversational dataset A ( introduced in Section 3 ) .
In order to demonstrate that cohesion is exhibited in our data we estimate the two probabilities involved in ( 1 ) as follows . We estimate the first probability as the fraction of all turns in which both tweets exhibit dimension C :
“ bP
T C ∧ RC | T ↔ R
=
”
|˘(t , r ) | t ↔ r , tC , rC¯ |
| {(t , r ) | t ↔ r} |
( 5 )
( 6 ) where tC denotes the condition that a tweet t exhibits C.8 To estimate the second probability , we first construct a set of “ fake turns ” by randomly pairing together tweets from the entire conversational data ( regardless of their authors ) . We can then write :
“
T C ∧ RC ” bP
=
|˘(t , r ) | t ↔ r , tC , rC¯ |
| {(t , r ) | t ↔ r} | where tC is the condition that the tweet t exhibits C and t ↔ r is the condition that the tweets t and r are paired together in a fake turn .
Establishing that cohesion is exhibited in the data corresponds to rejecting the null hypothesis of these two probabilities being equal . Fisher ’s exact test9 rejects this hypothesis with p value smaller than 0.0001 for each of the strictly nontopical style dimensions . Figure 1 shows the estimates of the two probabilities for each of these style dimensions ( the difference between the two is shown in red/dark ) . While this result is not surprising , it is a necessary precondition for verifying the more subtle hypothesis of accommodation that we are going to address next . 6.2 Validation of stylistic accommodation
We now proceed to answer the main question of this work : does the hypothesis of stylistic accommodation proposed in the psycholinguistic literature hold in social media conversations ? Since the probabilistic framework for accommodation is applied at the level of user pairs , the conversational dataset B is employed for this analysis .
For each ordered user pair ( a , b ) and stylistic dimension C , we estimate the minuend in ( 2 ) as the fraction of b ’s replies to a in which b ’s tweet tb exhibits C :
6Where by minuend we mean the left term of a subtraction and by subtrahend we mean to the right one . 7As a concrete example , correlation does not distinguish between the the case in which the initial tweet exhibits C but the reply does not , and the reverse case in which the the initial tweet does not exhibit C but the reply does .
8Lowercase letters are used to represent tweets that make up our dataset , distinguish them from the uppercase letters that refer to probabilistic events in the framework defined in Section 5 . 9We use this exact variant of the χ2 test since for some style dimensions the expected counts are low .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India749 tion on the remaining 36 dimensions and observed a statistically significant effect for all of them except for Fillers ( like ‘blah’ , ‘yaknow’ ) for which the data was insufficient .
Note that by design , our probabilistic framework allows comparison between the accommodation effects exhibited for each dimension C ( ie , fulfills the comparability desiderata introduced in Section 1 ) . Here are some of the comparisons worth pointing out :
• Users accommodate significantly more on tentativeness than on certainty ( p value smaller than 0.01 according to an independent t test).12
• Users accommodate significantly more on negative emo tions than on positive emotions ( not illustrated , dAcc(N eg . emo . ) = 0.07 , dAcc(P os . emo . ) = 0.04 ; p value smaller than 0.01 according to an independent t test for the difference ) .
• 1st person singular pronoun vs . 2nd person pronoun . In retrospect , the fact that accommodation is not exhibited for the 2nd person pronoun dimension seems natural : words like ‘you’ have a different meaning for two participants involved in a conversation . However , the same holds for the 1st person singular pronoun dimension for which accommodation is observed . This could be explained by the social psychology hypothesis of disclosure reciprocity in dyadic relationships [ 6 ] .
With the results presented here we are able to verify that accommodation does indeed hold in large scale , real world conversational setting with properties that a priori seemed challenging to the theory . In the remainder of this section we will use our framework to investigate what properties linguistic style accommodation exhibits in this conversational setting . 6.3 Stylistic influence and symmetry
Here we seek to understand the role that the concept of stylistic influence ( introduced in Section 5.3 ) has in Twitter conversations . We start by asking whether stylistic influence is prevalent in the data : in general , is there a balance between the amount two participants in a conversation accommodate ? Or , on the contrary , is one user stylistically dominating the other ?
In terms of our framework , we can test whether in expectation there is an imbalance of accommodation between participants in a conversation by verifying whether we can reject the null hypothesis Eˆabs(I(a,b)(C))˜ = 0 , where the expectation is taken over all conversing pairs ( a , b ) . Using definition ( 4 ) , this is reduced to rejecting :
Eˆabs`Acc(a,b)(C ) − Acc(b,a)(C)´˜ = 0 . Eˆmax`Acc(a,b)(C ) , Acc(b,a)(C)´˜ = Eˆmin`Acc(a,b)(C ) , Acc(b,a)(C)´˜ and further to rejecting :
Figure 1 : The effect of stylistic cohesion observed as the difference between bP`T C ∧ RC | T ↔ R´ ( composite bars ) and bP`T C ∧ RC´ ( blue bars ) . The differ ences , shown in red/dark , are statistically significant ( p<00001 ) The dimensions are shown in decreasing order of the difference .
“ bP
” b | Tb → Ta T C ”
=
¯ |
|˘(ta , tb ) | tb → ta , tC |˘(ta , tb ) | tb → ta , tC
| {(ta , tb ) | tb → ta} | b
¯ | b | T C T C
Similarly , the subtrahend is estimated as :
“ bP We can then measure the amount of accommodationdAcc(C ) b , tC a | {(ta , tb ) | tb → ta , tC a } | a , Tb → Ta
( 8 )
= exhibited in our dataset as the difference between the mean of the set of subtrahend estimations
( 7 ) nbP “ nbP
“
” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o ” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o
,
T C b
| T C a , Tb → Ta
| Tb → Ta
T C b and the mean of the minuend estimations where Pairs is the set of all ordered pairs10 . Figure 2 compares these means — the former is illustrated in red/right , the latter in blue/left — for each strictly non topical stylistic dimension . All the differences are statistically significant with a p value smaller than 0.0001 according to a two tailed paired t test11 for all strictly non topical style dimensions with the exception of the 2nd person pronoun stylistic dimension for which the difference is not statistically significant .
Even though our focus is on the strictly non topical style dimensions , for completeness we also measured accommoda
10We discard all user pairs for which the denominator of any of these two estimations is less than 10 . 11In order to allay concerns regarding the independence assumption of this test , for each two users a and b we only consider one of the two possible ordered pairs ( a , b ) and ( b , a ) . where the first term is the expected accommodation of the most accommodating users ( where the accommodation is
12Therefore doubt appears to be more “ contagious ” than confidence .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India750 Figure 2 : The effect of accommodation dAcc(C ) nbP`T C o ´ | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs observed as the difference between the means of
| T C a , Tb → Ta for each strictly non topical stylistic dimension C nbP`T C b o ´ | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs
| Tb → , Ta
( blue , left ) and b
( red , right ) . All the differences are statistically significant ( p<0.0001 ) , except for the 2nd person pronoun category . The dimensions are ordered according to the amount of accommodation observed . always compared within each pair ) , and can by estimated the mean of : n n max min
“ dAcc(a,b)(C),dAcc(b,a)(C ) “ dAcc(a,b)(C),dAcc(b,a)(C )
” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o ” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o
,
. and the second term is the expected accommodation of the least accommodating users , estimated by the mean of :
Using the same method for estimating Acc(a,b)(C ) discussed in Section 6.2 , we reject this hypothesis for all strictly non topical style dimensions C ( paired t test with p value smaller than 00001)13 Figure 3 illustrates the difference between the expected accommodation of the least accommodating users ( red/left ) and that of the most accommodating users ( blue/right ) in a pair . A difference in the type of imbalance between dimension is revealed ; for example , while for 1st person plural pronouns in general the least accommodating users still match the style of the most accommodating participants ( even though significantly less than vice versa ) , for certainty the least accommodating users in general diverge from the style of the most accommodating participants .
To further investigate this intriguing difference between style dimensions , we turn our attention to the property of symmetry . Figure 4 shows the percentage split between symmetrically accommodating pairs ( blue/left ) , asymmetrically default accommodating pairs ( yellow/center ) and asymmetrically diverging accommodating pairs ( red/right ) , as defined in Section 53
The conclusions that can be drawn from analyzing these results is that accommodation is a much more complex behavior than previously reported in the literature , where it was assumed that only one type of accommodation occurs for a given dimension14 . But as it can be observed in Figure 4 all three types of accommodation have a considerable stake . Furthermore , in all previous work on linguistic style accommodation , no distinction was made between the type of accommodation occurring for each dimension . However , our study indicates a clear difference between dimensions : • Symmetric accommodation is dominant for 1st pron . pl . , Discrepancy and Indef . pron . ;
• Asymmetric accommodation ( of both types ) is domi nant in most of the other dimensions ;
• Asymmetric diverging accommodation is dominant for
2nd person pronoun .
A potential explanation for the fact that such a complex accommodation behavior was not previously observed may be the difference between the Twitter conversational setting and that traditionally used in the literature ( discussed in Section 1 ) , especially in the spectrum of relation types covered ( mostly limited to one type in the previous studies ) . Another explanation may be the increased expressibility of our probabilistic framework over the correlation based framework used in previous studies . 6.4 Relation to social status
As pointed out in Section 2 , the psycholinguistic literature draws clear a connection between the social status of a user and its tendency to accommodate . Therefore , it is natural to ask whether stylistic influence correlates with differences in social status between the users and we take the first steps to address this question . For lack of a better proxy , we employ user features that were previously reported to be related to social influence on Twitter [ 2 ] . For each pair of users
13The same holds for all the other dimensions except Fillers for which the data was insufficient .
14Here we refer to any dimension of accommodation , like the ones in Table 1 , not only to linguistic style dimensions .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India751 Figure 3 : The effect of stylistic influence for each strictly non topical stylistic dimension C observed as the difference between the means of ( red , left ) and min n
“ dAcc(a,b)(C),dAcc(b,a)(C )
” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o n max
“ dAcc(a,b)(C )
” | ( a , b ) ∈ Pairs o
( blue , right ) . All the differences are statistically significant ( p<00001 )
The dimensions are shown in decreasing order of the difference . in our data we compare : #followers , #followees , #posts , #days on Twitter , #posts per day and ownership of a personal website . We find that for all style dimensions none of these features correlate strongly with stylistic influence ; the largest positive Pearson correlation coefficient obtained was 0.15 between #followees and stylistic influence on 1st pron . pl Also , for the task of predicting the most influential user in each pair a decision tree classifier15 rendered relatively poor results . The best improvement over the majority class baseline was of only 7 % for the 1st pron . pl . dimension ( in this case the most predictive features were the difference in #friends and the difference in ownership of a personal website ) . All this suggests that stylistic influence appears to be only weakly connected to these social features . However , one should take this observation with a grain of salt : the proxies for social status available on Twitter and employed here are far from ideal . Future work should seek to use better proxies for social status , possibly in environments with richer social data .
7 . RELATED WORK
Here we briefly touch on related work not already discussed . Much of the research in understanding social media focuses on the network relations between users . More recently , this line of work has been complimented with a rich analysis of the content of posts as well as structural relations among posters . In one early study combing these two dimensions of analysis , Paolillo [ 33 ] examined linguistic variations associated with strong and weak ties in an early internet chat relay system . The strength of friendship ties on Facebook was related by Gilbert and Karahalios [ 10 ] to various language features including intimacy words , positive and negative emotions . Eisenstein et al . [ 8 ] investigated the role geographic variation of language has in Twitter and Kiciman [ 24 ] examined the extent to which differences in language models of Twitter posts ( as measured by perplexity ) were related to metadata associated with the senders .
15We used the Weka implementation of the C4.5 decision tree , available at wwwcswaikatoacnz/ml/weka/
Figure 4 : The percentage of accommodating pairs that exhibit each of the three types of accommodation : symmetric , default asymmetry and diverging assymetry .
Such work demonstrates the importance of linguistic style variations in Twitter which also plays a crucial role in our study .
Latent variable models have also been used to summarize more general linguistic patterns in social media . Ramage et al . [ 35 ] developed a partially supervised learning model ( Labeled LDA ) to summarize key linguistic trends in a large collection of millions of Twitter posts . They identified four general types of dimensions , which they characterized as substance , status , social and style . These included dimensions about events , ideas , things , or people ( substance ) , related to some socially communicative end ( social ) , related to per
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India752 sonal updates ( status ) , and indicative of broader trends of language use ( style ) . This representation was used to improve filtering of tweets and recommendations of people to follow . In the task of tweet ranking , a different approach is taken by [ 7 ] which employs twitter specific features in conjunction to textual content . Another way of characterizing key trends in text data is to use known distinctions or dimensions . In addition to the already discussed work based on LIWC , see [ 29 , 33 ] for other examples of analyses of linguistic variation with respect to position or status in a social network . Of particular interest in our work is the distinction between linguistic style and content . Style or function words make up about 55 % of the words that we speak , read and hear according to Tausczik and Pennebaker [ 38 ] , similar to findings of Ramage et al . [ 35 ] in their analysis of Twitter . In our research , we use LIWC to characterize the linguistic style of posts as well as individuals .
One particularly interesting type of linguistic activity in social media has to do with conversations , that is with exchanges between one or more individuals . Twitter conversations are the main focus in this work . Java et al . [ 22 ] found that 21 % of users in their study used Twitter for conversational purposes ( as measured by the use of @ , a convention to address a post to a particular user ) , and that 12.5 % of all posts were part of conversations . Honeycutt and Herring [ 19 ] analyzed conversational exchanges on the Twitter public timeline , focusing on the function of the @ sign . They found that short dyadic conversations occur frequently , along with some longer multi participant conversations . Ritter et al . [ 36 ] developed an unsupervised learning approach to identify conversational structure from open topic conversations . Specifically they trained an LDA model which combined conversational ( speech acts ) and content topics on a corpus of 1.3 million Twitter conversations , and discovered interpretable speech acts ( reference broadcast , status , question , reaction , comment , etc . ) by clustering utterances with similar conversational roles . In our research , we build on this data set and extend it to include the complete conversational history of individuals over a period of almost one year .
Since the notion of linguistic style is central to this work , we also want to point out other instances in which it plays an important role . Linguistic style was shown to be crucial in the area of authorship attribution and in forensic linguistics ( for an overview see [ 23] ) . To identify an author , it is necessary to look beyond content into the — often subconscious — stylistic properties of the language . Simple measures like word length , word complexity , sentence length and vocabulary complexity were at the forefront of earlier research into attribution problems ( eg [ 41 , 18] ) . Since Mosteller and Wallace ’s seminal work on the Federalist Papers [ 30 ] , however , a trend has emerged to focus on the distribution of function words as a diagnostic for authorship , a method that in various incarnations now dominates the research . Other areas using similar methods include gender detection from text [ 25 , 31 , 17 ] and personality type detection [ 1 ] .
8 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we have shown that the hypothesis of linguistic style accommodation can be confirmed in a real life , large scale dataset of Twitter conversations . We have developed a probabilistic framework that allows us to measure accommodation and , importantly , to distinguish effects of style accommodation from those of homophily and topic accommodation . We also have demonstrated how this framework allows us to formalize and investigate the notions of stylistic influence and asymmetric accommodation .
It is important to highlight that our findings are anything but obvious , given that Twitter is a medium unlike any other setting in which the phenomenon was previously observed . Its novelty comes not only from its size , but also from the wide variety of social relation types , from the non real time nature of conversations , from the 140 character length restriction and from a design that was initially not geared towards conversation at all . This work demonstrates that accommodation is robust enough to occur under these new constraints , presumably because it is deeply ingrained in human social behavior .
We believe that this line of research has a number of natural extensions . One question we have not addressed is the issue of long term accommodation : can we measure accommodation over a longer period of time , from the first interaction of two users on ? Answering this question is challenging because it requires richer longitudinal data . It would also be very interesting to explore interplay between the accommodating behavior and the type of social relation .
As for practical applications , on the premise that accommodation renders conversations more pleasant and effective , we posit that having the linguistic style of automated dialogue systems match that of the user would increase the quality of the interaction . Personalized ranking of tweets could also benefit by selecting tweets with styles that match that of the tweets issued by the target user . Finally , given the evidence that this work brings to support the universality of the accommodation phenomenon , we envision its use in detection of forged conversations.16
Finally , we hope that our findings will stimulate further research and refinements of the communication accommodation theory in the psycholinguistic world .
Acknowledgments We thank Lillian Lee for inspiring conversations , Munmun De Choudhury , Scott Counts , Sumit Basu , Dan Liebling , Magdalena Naro˙zniak , Alexandru Niculescu Mizil , Tim Paek , Bo Pang , Chris Quirk for technical advice and the anonymous reviewers for helpful comments . This paper is based upon work supported in part by the NSF grant IIS 0910664 .
9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Argamon , S . Dhawle , and M . Koppel . Lexical predictors of personality type . Joint Annual Meeting of the Interface and the Classification Society of North America , 2005 .
[ 2 ] E . Bakshy , J . M . Hofman , W . A . Mason , and D . J .
Watts . Everyone ’s an influencer : Quantifying influence on Twitter . WSDM , 2011 .
[ 3 ] F . Bilous and R . Krauss . Dominance and accommodation in the conversational behavior of
16We are inspired here by the use of Benford ’s law in detecting forged financial reports [ 4 ] . Though potentially not as common as such forgery , situations in which conversational transcripts are contested are not infrequent . One recent example is the October 2010 release of phone conversations between top Romanian political leaders and a compromised business man . Another one is the controversy surrounding the reality TV shows “ The Jersey Shore ” and “ The Hill ” which are suspected of being scripted .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India753 same and mixed gender dyads . Language and Communication , 8 , 183 194 , 1988 .
Automatically categorizing written texts by author gender . Literary and Linguistic Computing , 2002 .
[ 4 ] W . T . Cho and B . Gaines . Breaking the ( Benford )
[ 26 ] W . Levelt and S . Kelter . Surface form and memory in law . The American Statistician , 61(3):218–223 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] Condon and Ogston . A segmentation of behavior .
Journal of psychiatric research , 1973 .
[ 6 ] V . Derlega , M . Harris , and A . Chaikin . Self disclosure reciprocity , liking and the deviant . Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , 9(4):277–284 , 1973 .
[ 7 ] Duan , Jiang , Qin , Zhou , and Shum . An empirical study on learning to rank of tweets . COLING , 2010 . [ 8 ] J . Eisenstein , B . O’Connor , N . A . Smith , and E . P . Xing . A latent variable model for geographic lexical variation . EMNLP , 2010 .
[ 9 ] K . Ferrara . Accommodation in therapy . In Contexts of question answering . Cognitive Psychology , 14(1):78–106 , 1982 .
[ 27 ] J . Matarazzo and A . Wiens . Interview : Research on Its Anatomy and Structure . Chicago : Aldine , 1973 . [ 28 ] G . Miller . The science of words . Scientific American
Library . Scientific American Library , 1996 .
[ 29 ] L . Milroy and J . Milroy . Social network and social class : Toward an integrated sociolinguistic model . Language in Society , 21(1):1–26 , Mar 1992 .
[ 30 ] F . Mosteller and D . Wallace . Inference in an authorship problem . Journal of the American Statistical Association , 58(302):275–309 , Jun 1963 . accommodation : developments in applied sociolinguistics . Cambridge University Press , 1991 .
[ 31 ] A . Mukherjee and B . Liu . Improving gender classification of blog authors . EMNLP , 2010 .
[ 10 ] E . Gilbert and K . Karahalios . Predicting tie strength with social media . HCI , 2009 .
[ 11 ] H . Giles . Communication accommodation theory . In
Engaging theories in interpersonal communication : multiple perspectives . Sage Publications , 2008 .
[ 12 ] H . Giles , J . Coupland , and N . Coupland .
Accommodation theory : Communication , context , and consequences . In Contexts of accommodation : developments in applied sociolinguistics . Cambridge University Press , 1991 .
[ 13 ] H . Giles , M . Willemyns , C . Gallois , and M . Anderson .
Accommodating a new frontier : The context of law enforcement . K . Fiedler ( Ed. ) , Social Communication . New York : Psychology Press . , 2006 .
[ 14 ] A . L . Gonzales , J . T . Hancock , and J . W . Pennebaker .
Language style matching as a predictor of social dynamics in small groups . Communication Research , 37(1):3–19 , Feb 2010 .
[ 15 ] J . Hale and J . Burgoon . Models of reactions to changes in nonverbal immediacy . Journal of Nonverbal Behavior , 8(4):287–314 , 1984 .
[ 16 ] H . Hamilton . Accommodation and mental disability .
In Contexts of accommodation : developments in applied sociolinguistics . Cambridge University Press , 1991 .
[ 17 ] S . Herring and J . Paolillo . Gender and genre variation in weblogs . Journal of Sociolinguistics , Jan 2006 .
[ 18 ] D . Holmes . Authorship attribution . Computers and the Humanities , 28(2):87–106 , Apr 1994 .
[ 32 ] K . Niederhoffer and J . Pennebaker . Linguistic style matching in social interaction . Journal of Language and Social Psychology , 2002 .
[ 33 ] J . Paolillo . Language variation on internet relay chat :
A social network approach . Journal of Sociolinguistics , 2001 .
[ 34 ] J . W . Pennebaker , R . J . Booth , and M . E . Francis .
Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count ( LIWC ) : A computerized text analysis program . LIWC.net , 2007 .
[ 35 ] D . Ramage , S . Dumais , and D . Liebling .
Characterizing microblogs with topic models . International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , 2010 .
[ 36 ] A . Ritter , C . Cherry , and B . Dolan . Unsupervised modeling of Twitter conversations . NAACL , 2010 . [ 37 ] R . L . Street and H . Giles . Speech accommodation theory . In Social cognition and communication . Sage Publications , 1982 .
[ 38 ] Y . R . Tausczik and J . W . Pennebaker . The psychological meaning of words : LIWC and computerized text analysis methods . Journal of Language and Social Psychology , 29(1):24–54 , Mar 2010 .
[ 39 ] P . Taylor and S . Thomas . Linguistic style matching and negotiation outcome . Negotiation and Conflict Management Research , 1(3):263–281 , 2008 .
[ 40 ] S . White . Backchannels across cultures : A study of
Americans and Japanese . Language in Society , 18(1):59–76 , Mar 1989 .
[ 19 ] C . Honeycutt and S . Herring . Beyond microblogging :
[ 41 ] G . Yule . On sentence length as a statistical characteristic of style in prose : With application to two cases of disputed authorship . Biometrika , 30(3/4):363–390 , Jan 1939 .
Conversation and collaboration via twitter . HICSS , 2009 .
[ 20 ] D . A . Infante , A . S . Rancer , and D . F . Womack .
Building communication theory . Waveland Press , 2006 .
[ 21 ] J . Jaff´e and S . Feldstein . Rhythms of dialogue .
Academic Press , 1970 .
[ 22 ] A . Java , X . Song , T . Finin , and B . Tseng . Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . WebKDD/SNA KDD , Aug 2007 .
[ 23 ] P . Juola . Authorship Attribution . Now Publishers ,
2008 .
[ 24 ] E . Kiciman . Language differences and metadata features on Twitter . Web N gram Workshop , 2010 .
[ 25 ] M . Koppel , S . Argamon , and A . Shimoni .
WWW 2011 – Session : Information SpreadMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India754
