A Self Organizing Document Map Algorithm for Large Scale Hyperlinked Data Inspired by Neuronal Migration
Kotaro Nakayama and Yutaka Matsuo
Center for Knowledge Structuring
The University of Tokyo
7 3 1 Hongo , Bunkyo ku , Tokyo , Japan nakayama@cksu tokyoacjp , matsuo@biz modeltu tokyoacjp
ABSTRACT Web document clustering is one of the research topics that is being pursued continuously due to the large variety of applications . Since Web documents usually have variety and diversity in terms of domains , content and quality , one of the technical difficulties is to find a reasonable number and size of clusters . In this research , we pay attention to SOMs ( Self Organizing Maps ) because of their capability of visualized clustering that helps users to investigate characteristics of data in detail . The SOM is widely known as a \scalable" algorithm because of its capability to handle large numbers of records . However , it is effective only when the vectors are small and dense . Although several research efforts on making the SOM scalable have been conducted , technical issues on scalability and performance for sparse high dimensional data such as hyperlinked documents still remain . In this paper , we introduce MIGSOM , an SOM algorithm inspired by a recent discovery on neuronal migration . The two major advantages of MIGSOM are its scalability for sparse highdimensional data and its clustering visualization functionality . In this paper , we describe the algorithm and implementation , and show the practicality of the algorithm by applying MIGSOM to a huge scale real data set : Wikipedia ’s hyperlink data .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I26 [ ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ] : Learning
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords SOM,Wikipedia,Visualization,Clustering,Link Analysis
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Although a significant number of Web document clustering researches have been conducted in the past , Web document clustering is still a major challenge . Much research is left to be done for applications such as ad matching systems and recommendation systems . Since a set of Web documents usually has variety and diversity in terms of domains , content and quality , one of the technical difficulties is to find a reasonable number and size of clusters . SOM ( Self Organizing Map ) , one of the most popular unsupervised machine learning algorithms that maps high dimensional vectors into
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Figure 1 : Translocation and MIGSOM
( Movements of neurons are the principle of training .
Neurons use their axons to find similar cells . The connectivity is based on Gaussian selection ) low dimensional data , has a powerful functionality of clustering visualization . In the past , a number of researches on SOMs for Web documents such as WebSOM [ 2 ] have been conducted . However , there still exist two difficulties on this research area ; scalability and performance . In the previous researches , dimension reduction was the common practice to make SOMs scalable . We do not disallow the effectiveness of dimension reduction , but it is clear that dimension reduction reduces information which affects the result accuracy ( esp . of clustering ) , so that scalability and performance were a trade off . In order to satisfy these two demands at the same time , we need an efficient novel computational model .
There has been a renewal of interest in biomimicry in computer science recently caused by dramatic progress of brain science . Researchers have unveiled more about the brain in the last 10 years than in all previous centuries , due to new analytical technologies such as fMRI . As a result , the mechanism of the central nervous system ( CNS ) including brain and spinal cord has been uncovered in detail . Neuronal migration is one of the research topics that has advanced greatly in this trend . Neuronal migration describes how neurons move from their birth place to their final location in the nervous system . Changing connectivity is widely known as a principle of learning in CNS and recent neuroscience researches have proved the important role of neuronal migration in addition to changing connectivity .
In this paper , we propose MIGSOM , a new SOM algorithm inspired by neuronal migration . MIGSOM is also an interactive learning algorithm like Kohonen ’s , but the data structure and process are different and novel . The main characteristic of MIGSOM is the scalability in terms of both number of documents and dimensionality .
2 . MIGSOM
MIGSOM is a new SOM algorithm inspired by neuronal migration . In neuronal migration , neurons find a suitable place and move using their own axons . We show the detailed process of neuronal migration in Figure 1 . First of all , neurons start to expand their axons after they are born .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India95 ! mg=
! O #Initialize by null vector
Algorithm train( ) : 1 Randomly select g from G 2 3 N = GaussianSelection(g ) 4 for each n 2 N 5 dist = distance(n ; g ) #Distance in map power = tanh(dist ) 6 ! ! mg +U ( n ; g ) power Sim(n ; g ) 7 mg= 8 if j ! mg j > t T ranslocate(g ; 9
! mg )
Figure 2 : MIGSOM ’s Training Algorithm
Then , they explore their peripheral area by using their axons to decide the direction to expand the axons . After finding a suitable place to establish , they create synaptic connections to the neurons around the area . Finally they move to the location by shortening the axons .
MIGSOM , like Kohonen ’s SOM , has a map ( 2D grid ) to represent geometric relationships among records . This means that similar records are deployed ( mapped ) closer to each other in the grid . Major differences between Kohonen ’s SOM and MIGSOM are its representation and learning process . Traditional SOMs including Kohonen ’s have a grid in which each node has its own vector without reference to the input data ( records ) . MIGSOM , in contrast , has a grid in which each node corresponds to an input record . For instance , for document categorization based on a documentterm matrix , each node corresponds to a document vectorized by terms . Precisely , there are two types of nodes ; neuron cells and glial cells . Each neuron cell corresponds to a document ( input record ) and each glial cell has a randomly generated vector . Glial cells work as intermediators to guide neurons . Glial cells had been thought as a trivial cells which just bring energy to neurons but recent researches brought more and more evidences to prove the important rolls of Glial cells in learning process .
MIGSOM ’s learning process is another difference from traditional SOMs . SOMs iteratively modify the vectors of nodes on the grid but MIGSOM iteratively move ( migrate ) the nodes to organize the map . We illustrate the detailed process of iteration ( training ) in Figure 2 .
MIGSOM begins the training procedure by randomly selecting a node g from the set of nodes in the grid G and adopts a neuron ( or glial cell ) on the node as training data . ! Then , initialize mg , a motion vector of a neuron on g , by null vector . Next , select a set of random nodes around g by a function that selects nodes following Gaussian distribution GaussianSelection(g ) . For each n , calculate Euclidean distance by distance(n ; g ) and similarity by Sim(n ; g ) to ! ! mg by usmodify mg . Finally , migrate the g to direction of ! ing T ranslocate(g ; mg ) is larger than t . tanh(dist ) is a hyperbolic tangent function of distance to calculate the power of reeling in . Farther nodes have stronger power . U ( n ; g ) represents a unit vector from g to n . mg ) if the j ! ! mg j ( norm of
3 . A CASE STUDY : WIKIPEDIA SOM
In order to prove the practicality of MIGSOM , we applied MIGSOM to Wikipedia ’s hyperlink data ( dumped in April 2009 , 3+ million articles , 128+ million internal hyperlinks ) and visualized the data for clustering analysis . A Wikipedia article corresponds to a conceptual entity and articles are connected by a number of hyperlinks . Wikipedia ’s dense
Figure 3 : Asynchronous Visualization Interface
( It enables users to analyze global clusters and local clusters seamlessly thanks to the asynchronous interface .
See http://sigwp.org/wikisom ) link structure has been widely proved in previous researches and it allows researchers to extract relations among articles ( entities ) . An adjacency matrix generated from Wikipedia ’s hyperlink network is a typical large scale sparse matrix , thus it is suitable for testing our proposed method .
We have developed a cluster visualization system ( Figure 3 right ) for more detailed analysis . It displays pictures corresponding to articles ( we adopted the first image file in each article ) and enables users to navigate through the space interactively via Ajax zoom interface . The UI allows users to analyze both the global structure ( inter cluster ) and local structure ( inter subcluster or inter record ) seamlessly . This approach makes SOM based clustering more practical , since traditionally the results of SOMs use rasterized static 2D bitmaps and interpreting the results of SOMs for huge data was a technical issue .
4 . DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
By using this interface , we can understand that various cluster like Sports / Culture , Science , Nature and Cars are generated . In addition to this , we can see that similar clusters are also located closer in the map . Further , magnification for the Geography cluster gives us a detailed view of subclusters such as roads , places and landmarks . SOM ’s one of the most important applications is cluster visualization for data where both number and size of the clusters are unclear . In other words , the SOM is used to understand the structure of the input data , and in particular , to identify clusters of input records that have similar characteristics . Classification of tumors based on gene expression patterns is a typical example that SOMs are suitable to be adopted [ 1 ] because of the difficulties on identification of new cancer classes . In this context , MIGSOM is promising as a tool for cluster visualization because of the MIGSOM ’s scalability and the visualization functionality .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . R . Golub , D . K . Slonim , P . Tamayo , C . Huard ,
M . Gaasenbeek , J . P . Mesirov , H . Coller , M . L . Loh , J . R . Downing , M . A . Caligiuri , and C . D . Bloomfield . Molecular classification of cancer : class discovery and class prediction by gene expression monitoring . Science , 286:531{537 , 1999 .
[ 2 ] K . Lagus , S . Kaski , and T . Kohonen . Mining massive document collections by the websom method . Information Science , 163(1 3):135{156 , 2004 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India96
