Dynamic Learning based Mechanism Design for
Dependent Valued Exchange Economies
Swaprava Nath
Supervised by : Y . Narahari
Department of Computer Science and Automation
Indian Institute of Science , Bangalore 560 012 , India swaprava@gmail.com
ABSTRACT Learning private information from multiple strategic agents poses challenge in many Internet applications . Sponsored search auctions , crowdsourcing , Amazon ’s mechanical turk , various online review forums are examples where we are interested in learning true values of the advertisers or true opinion of the reviewers . The common thread in these decision problems is that the optimal outcome depends on the private information of all the agents , while the decision of the outcome can be chosen only through reported information which may be manipulated by the strategic agents . The other important trait of these applications is their dynamic nature . The advertisers in an online auction or the users of mechanical turk arrive and depart , and when present , interact with the system repeatedly , giving the opportunity to learn their types . Dynamic mechanisms , which learn from the past interactions and make present decisions depending on the expected future evolution of the game , has been shown to improve performance over repeated versions of static mechanisms . In this paper , we will survey the past and current state of the art dynamic mechanisms and analyze a new setting where the agents consist of buyers and sellers , known as exchange economies , and agents having value interdependency , which are relevant in applications illustrated through examples . We show that known results of dynamic mechanisms with independent value settings cannot guarantee certain desirable properties in this new significantly different setting . In the future work , we propose to analyze similar settings with dynamic types and population .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Economics ; I211 [ Distributed Artificial Intelligence ] : Multiagent systems General Terms Economics , Game Theory , Mechanism Design Keywords Incentive Compatibility , Individual Rationality , Nash Equilibrium 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Dynamic mechanism design evolved primarily through auction theory . With the advent of the Internet , the sponsored
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . search auction became one of the major resources of electronic commerce . Due to the dynamic nature of the interaction , the classical results , eg , Vickrey [ 22 ] , Myerson [ 13 ] , dealing with static auction were needed to be extended to the settings where the agent population or the types or both evolve over time . Though the literature on dynamic auction theory provides guarantees on truthfulness , voluntary participation and no deficit , it is restricted to the setting where agents are either all buyers or all sellers , with values independent across agents ( this is also referred to as private value setting , [ 4] ) . In a typical auction , the auctioneer is not considered as a player , which is not suitable to model the crowdsourcing websites or dynamic project outsourcing problems , as the central organization is also critical for the strategic interaction . This framework , consisting of a population of both buyers and sellers , is known as Exchange Economies in the literature . We also note that the value of a crowdsourcing center would depend upon the quality of information provided by the crowd , inducing value dependency . In this paper , we will address the above interesting setting of exchange economy with dependent value structure , which has not been studied much in the literature on dynamic mechanism design . To illustrate , we discuss a simplified example of this general setting .
Motivating example : Consider a company , having received a contract for a project , wishes to select a set of employees to execute it . The company does not deterministically know the efficiencies of the employees . Company ’s revenue ( value ) increases for a faster completion of the project , and so , its goal is to allocate the project to the set of most efficient employees and make appropriate payments . A typical dynamics of this game is shown in Figure 1 , where player 0 denotes the company and the players 1 through n are the employees . Let N = {0 , 1 , . . . , n} . In each round t , agent i observes her true types θi,t , i ∈ N , analogous to the efficiencies for the employees and the project workload for the company . Since the true efficiency levels are private information of the employees , reported types ( ˆθi,t ’s ) may be different from the true ones . The decision problem for a mechanism designer is therefore to design a mechanism endowed with efficient allocation and payment rules to ensure truthfulness , voluntary participation etc . It is clear that the cost of the project depends on the completion time , which in turn depends on the efficiencies ( types ) of all the employees , and hence the costs to the employees ( values ) depend on the types of other agents , making the values dependent . The other point to note here is that the payment is made by
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India397 At time t
Agents observe true types
θ0,t
θ1,t
θn,t
Agents report types ˆθ0,t ˆθ1,t
ˆθn,t
Mechanism Designer ’s decision problem
Allocation at
Payment pt
Figure 1 : An illustration of the motivating example the company to the employees , giving rise to an exchange economy .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . In Section 2 , we look into the recent literature on dynamic mechanisms . In Section 3 , we present the challenges of designing mechanism in an exchange economy with dependent values and present some initial results which satisfy certain desirable properties under this setting . We conclude the paper in Section 4 with a roadmap of proposed future work .
Due to space constraints , we cannot provide formal definitions of value , type , efficiency , quasi linear payoff , ex post incentive compatibility , within period ex post individual rationality , which can be found in literature on mechanism design ( [15 ] , [ 14 ] , [ 4 ] ) and will be clear in the context . 2 . PREVIOUS WORK
In this section , we will take a look into the existing literature on dynamic mechanism design . The literature on static mechanism design is rich . However , they do not immediately extend to dynamic settings , since decisions in the dynamic setting often depend on the past behavior of agents which is absent in a static setting . The literature on dynamic mechanism design can be classified according to the nature of the dynamics . When the population of the agents is varying with time , eg , they have a certain arrival and departure epochs in the system , the class is known as dynamic population mechanisms . While if the types of the agents are varying with time , the class is known as the dynamic type mechanisms . Figure 2 illustrates the different classes of dynamic mechanisms with a flowchart .
Dynamic Mechanisms
Dynamic Population
Dynamic Type
Efficient
( max social welfare )
Optimal
Efficient
( max revenue )
( max social welfare )
Optimal
( max revenue )
Figure 2 : Different paradigms of dynamic mechanisms
2.1 Dynamic Population Mechanisms
Under this class of mechanisms , efficient mechanisms are those which maximize the total value ( social welfare ) of the agents . The sequential allocation problem in dynamic population setting has been studied by Parkes and Singh [ 18 ] . Each agent has an arrival time and a departure time , and has a utility function for decisions made while she is present , but the mechanism designer does not know any of this information . Their model considers patient buyers who are willing to maximize their long term payoff , and proposes online VCG mechanism as a solution . A sharp contrast to this problem with impatient buyers have been studied in Gershkov and
Moldovanu [ 9 ] , where the buyers wish to purchase an object immediately upon their arrival on the market .
Said [ 20 ] discusses the allocation of a sequence of indivisible goods to a dynamic population of buyers . The author presents an efficient dynamic indirect mechanism where patient buyers demand a single unit of a perishable homogeneous good .
The other class called optimal mechanisms maximize the revenue of an auction , following the taxonomy from Myerson [ 13 ] . The revenue maximizing counterpart to the efficient online VCG mechanism [ 18 ] is discussed by Pai and Vohra [ 16 ] with patient buyers . The setting with impatient buyers has been analyzed by Gershkov and Moldovanu [ 8 ] . Said [ 20 ] examines the assignment of a sequence of perishable goods to a population of patient buyers , and develops and indirect mechanism . 2.2 Dynamic Type Mechanisms
The sub classification into efficient and optimal mechanisms apply here as well . Let us discuss efficient mechanisms first . The infinite horizon dynamic type model has been analyzed in Bergemann and V¨alim¨aki [ 3 ] . The proposed efficient mechanism is called dynamic pivot mechanism , which is a generalization of the Clarke ’s pivotal mechanism in dynamic setting . Cavallo et al . [ 5 ] develop a mechanism similar to the dynamic pivot mechanism in a setting with agents whose type evolution follows a Markov process . In Cavallo et al . [ 6 ] , the authors extend dynamic VCG to settings in which buyers are periodically inaccessible and are unable to make reports . Zoeter [ 23 ] applied dynamic VCG in sponsored search to make the auction cheating proof . Sarma et al . [ 21 ] characterized mechanisms in multi slot sponsored search auctions .
Athey and Segal [ 1 ] consider a similar setting to that of [ 3 ] . However , they are also interested in finding an efficient mechanism that is budget balanced . They essentially generalize the AGV mechanism [ 7 ] to dynamic setting .
Kakade et al . [ 11 ] characterize the optimal dynamic mechanism for Multi armed Bandit problems , finding its applications in sponsored search auctions .
Pavan et al . [ 19 ] generalize the results of Myerson [ 13 ] to a general dynamic setting . In particular , they characterize incentive compatibility and revenue in multi period settings with dynamic private information .
Literature summary : The literature on dynamic mechanism design addresses private value environment , and a large share of them address auction setting . We would like to emphasize that this paper asks questions about the dependent value setting in an exchange economy , which distinguishes itself from the above literature . 3 . DEPENDENT VALUED
EXCHANGE ECONOMIES
In this section , we motivate the problem addressed and show the subtle differences from the existing literature and formally introduce the model , notation and assumptions . 3.1 Motivation for this work
Many social and network economics examples , discussed in Section 1 , involve exchange economies with interdependent values . The dynamic pivot mechanism or dynamic VCG mechanism ( [3 ] , [ 6] ) , will not readily guarantee incentive compatibility in this setting . For interdependent valuations , if one restricts attention to single stage static mechanisms , then incentive compatibility is inconsistent with mak
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India398 ing efficient decisions , even if one does not impose any budget balancing or individual rationality constraint ( Jehiel and Moldovanu [ 10] ) . Since dynamic mechanism design is inherently harder than static ones , designing dynamic mechanisms under such setting is a distinct nontrivial problem .
3.2 The Model
We consider a simple exchange economy setting , with single buyer and multiple sellers trading over an infinite horizon . The agents’ values at time t depend on the allocation in that round and the type profile of all the agents present at that instant . This has the implication that if an agent is removed from the system , she can no longer affect the valuations of other agents in that round . We consider a direct revelation mechanism with quasi linear payoffs , where the buyer chooses a single ( or a set of ) seller(s ) for procurement . Once selected , the agents perfectly observe their realized values . These observed values are functions of a random quantity called the state of the world ( example : random disturbance for a project completion ) and we will assume that it has a known stationary distribution . The observed types and values are private information of the agents . 3.3 Notation and Assumptions
The notation is summarized in Table 1 . We summarize the assumptions as follows .
• After the agents are allocated , they can observe their realized true values perfectly .
• We consider a dynamic mechanism with types evolving in a Markov process with the transitions independent across agents , ie , F ( θt+1|at , θt ) =Qi∈N Fi(θi,t+1|at , θi,t ) ,
∀ t , at is the action chosen at t .
• The value of the center at t depends only on the true types of the agents present at t .
• If an agent cannot increase her payoff by misreporting , then she sticks to truth telling .
• The absolute value of the valuation function is almost surely bounded .
• The state of the world process has a stationary distri bution .
3.4 Dynamics of the Game
Since interdependent valuations prevent a single stage mech anism to simultaneously guarantee efficiency and incentive compatibility ( [10] ) , Mezzetti [ 12 ] decouples the allocation and payment decisions by proposing two stage reporting mechanism for static setting . Similarly in dynamic setting , we assume that in each round , each agent observes her true value after allocation , which depends on the realization of the state of the world in addition to the true types of the agents . In the example of Section 1 , the exact completion time of the project does not only depend on the efficiency of the selected employee , but also on a random disturbance ( eg , labor shortage , power cut etc. ) , and the cost is observed after the project is executed .
Let us illustrate the dynamics of the game with a single buyer ( center ) and n sellers ( agents ) as follows .
1 . Agent i observes θi,t , at time t , i ∈ N . 2 . Agents are asked to report types . They report ˆθi,t . 3 . Mechanism decides the allocation of the job , at ∈ A depending on ˆθt .
4 . The state of the world , ω , realizes .
N = {0 , 1 , . . . , n} Θi Θ = Θ1 × · · · × Θn A ω ∈ Ω Π ∈ △(Ω )
Set of agents , 0 denotes the buyer . Type set of agent i ∈ N . Set of type profiles . Set of all possible allocations . State of the world . Cumulative distribution of the state of the world . vi : A × Θ → R
θt , ˆθt
ˆVi,t t = 0 , 1 , 2 , . . . θi,t , ˆθi,t
Vi : A × Θ × Ω → R Value function of agent i ∈ N . The value given an allocation depends on the types of the agents present at time t and on the state of the world . Expected value function of agent i ∈ N , expected over the state of the world . Discrete time index . True type , reported type of agent i ∈ N at time t . True type profile , reported type profile at time t . Values reported by agent i ∈ N , at time t Reported value profile at t . Allocation function acting on ˆθt . Prior of θi,0 . Joint prior of θ0 . Stochastic kernel associated with agent i . Stochastic kernel of the joint transition . We assume that the joint kernel is the product of the marginals . Common discount factor ( infinite horizon ) . Monetary transfer to agent i at each stage given the reported types and values . Total social welfare function given a type profile θt . Social welfare function excluding agent i given a type profile θ−i,t .
ˆVt at : Θ → A Fi ∈ △(Θi ) F ∈ △(Θ ) Fi(θi,t+1|at , θi,t ) p∗ i : Θ × R → R
W−i : Θ−i → R
F ( θt+1|at , θt )
δ
W : Θ → R
Table 1 : Notation .
5 . Agents observe their true valuation Vi(at , θt , ω ) , i ∈
N , which is a realization of a random variable .
6 . All agents are asked to report their observed values .
They report ˆVi,t , i ∈ N .
7 . Payments pt(ˆθt , ˆVt ) are decided by the mechanism .
Figure 3 gives a graphical illustration of the above dynamics .
At time t
Agents observe true types
θ0,t
θ1,t
θn,t
Agents report types ˆθ0,t ˆθ1,t
ˆθn,t
Agents observe true values
Agents report values
Stage 1
Allocation at v0(at , θt ) v1(at , θt )
vn(at , θt )
ˆv0,t
ˆv1,t
ˆvn,t
Stage 2
Payment pt
Figure 3 : Graphical illustration of the proposed dynamic mechanism
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India399 3.5 The Generalized Dynamic Pivot Mecha nism
Given the above dynamics of the game , the task of the mechanism designer is to design the allocation and payment rules . We note that the expected value of agent i ( expected over the state of the world ) is given by ,
Vi(at , θt , ω)dΠ(ω )
( 1 ) vi(at , θt ) =ZΩ where Vi(at , θt , ω ) is the realized value of the agent given realized state of the world ω . The objective of the social planner is to maximize social welfare given the type profile θt , which is defined as ,
W ( θt )
= max
πt
= max at
Eπt ,θt" ∞ Xs=t Eat,θt"Xi∈N vi(as , θs)#
δs−tXi∈N vi(at , θt ) + δEθt+1|at,θt W ( θt+1)# where πt = ( at , at+1 , . . . ) is the sequence of actions starting from t . We assume that there exists a stationary policy which maximizes the social welfare , ie , ∀ θt ∈ Θt , ∃ a∗(θt ) such that , a∗(θt ) ∈ arg maxat
Eat,θt"Xi∈N vi(at , θt ) + δEθt+1|at,θt W ( θt+1)#
( 2 ) We seek a socially efficient mechanism in this setting . In the following , we propose the generalized ( two stage ) dynamic pivot mechanism ( GDPM ) which guarantees efficiency , incentive compatibility and individual rationality .
Mechanism 1
( GDPM ) . Given the reported type profile ˆθt , choose the agents a∗(ˆθt ) according to Equation 2 . Transfer to agent i after agents report ˆVt , p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt ) =Xj6=i
ˆVj,t + δE
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt ) , ˆθt
W−i(θt+1 ) − W−i(ˆθt )
( 3 ) Proposition 1 . GDPM is efficient , within period ex post incentive compatible , and within period ex post individually rational . Proof : The allocation is efficient by choice . Let us focus on agent i . To prove ex post incentive compatibility , we assume all agents except agent i report their true types . Hence , ˆθt = ( ˆθi,t , θ−i,t ) . So , the discounted utility to agent i at t given the realized state of the world ω is , Ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt , ω ) = Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) + p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt )
+
| | marginal flow utility
{z
}
δE
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt [ W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt+1 ) ] discounted future marginal utility
}
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt ) , ˆθt
W−i(θt+1 )
ˆVj,t + δE
{z = Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) +Xj6=i
−W−i(ˆθt ) + δE
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt [ W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt+1 ) ] where the last equality comes from Equation 3 . We notice that agent i ’s payoff does not depend on her value report ˆVi,t . Hence , agent i has no incentive to misreport her observed valuation , and this applies to all agents . Therefore , by assumption , agents report their values truthfully , and we get ,
ˆVi,t = Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) ∀ i ∈ N
( 4 )
Hence ,
Ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt , ω )
= Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) +Xj6=i
Vj(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) +
δE
δE
W−i(θt+1 ) − W−i(ˆθt ) +
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt ) , ˆθt θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt [ W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt+1 ) ]
( 5 )
Now , we note that ,
E
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt ) , ˆθt
W−i(θt+1 ) = E
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt
W−i(θt+1 )
( 6 )
This is because when i is removed from the system ( while computing W−i(θt+1) ) , the values of all other agents do not depend on the type θi,t+1 ( this is by assumption , which is credible , since the revenue of a company cannot depend on the efficiency of an employee who is not present in the game ) . And due to the independence of type transitions , i ’s reported type ˆθi,t can only influence θi,t+1 . Hence , the reported value of agent i at t , ie , ˆθi,t cannot affect W−i(θt+1 ) . Similar arguments show that ,
W−i(ˆθt ) = W−i(θt )
( 7 )
Hence , Equation 5 reduces to , i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt , ω )
Ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗
= Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) +Xj6=i
Vj(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω ) +
( (
(
(
(
W−i(θt+1 ) − W−i(θt ) +
(
(
δE
δE
(
(
(
(
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt [ W ( θt+1 ) − Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt ) + δE
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt
W−i(θt+1 ) ]
= Xi∈N
W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt )
( 8 ) where we get the first equality combining Equations 6 and 7 . The utility of agent i given by Equation 8 depends on a specific realization of the state of the world ω . It is clear that , this utility of agent i is indeed random . Hence , the correct quantity to consider would be the utility expected over the state of the world , ie , ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt )
= ZΩ
Ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt , ω)dΠ(ω )
( 9 )
Hence , the expected discounted utility to agent i at t is , using Equations 8 and 9 , ui(a∗(ˆθt ) , ( p∗ i ( ˆθt , ˆVt) ) , θt )
Vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt , ω)dΠ(ω ) +
δE
= Xi∈NZΩ = Xi∈N ≤ Xi∈N
W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt )
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt vi(a∗(ˆθt ) , θt ) + δE
θt+1|a∗( ˆθt),θt
W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt ) vi(a∗(θt ) , θt ) + δEθt+1|a∗(θt),θt W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt )
= ui(a∗(θt ) , ( p∗ i ( θt , Vt) ) , θt )
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India400 where Vt = ( Vi(a∗(θt ) , θt , ω))i∈N . The second equality comes from Equation 1 , and the next inequality comes by definition of a∗(θt ) , Equation 2 . Hence ex post IC . We notice that at this equilibrium , ie , the ex post Nash equilibrium , the utility of agent i is , ui(a∗(θt ) , ( p∗ i ( θt , Vt) ) , θt ) vi(a∗(θt ) , θt ) + δEθt+1|a∗(θt),θt W ( θt+1 ) − W−i(θt )
= Xi∈N
= W ( θt ) − W−i(θt ) ≥ 0
Hence ex post IR . 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper , we have motivated the need of studying dependent valued exchange economies in dynamic setting . We have reviewed the literature on dynamic mechanism design for agents with independent value structure to show that this setting has not been addressed . In this work , we have performed a case study of this setting and proposed a mechanism , that serves to perform as truthful and individually rational . In general , the future work would be the following .
• Design of mechanisms which would additionally satisfy budget balance ( ie , the sum of the payments to the agents is non positive , so that the mechanism does not run into deficit ) , consistent payments ( ie , buyers pay and sellers get paid in each round of this dynamic mechanism ) under this setting .
• We would like to study the situation where the parameters of the decision problem is also learned over time .
• We would study revenue properties in order to design revenue optimizing mechanisms .
• We would be interested to study the dynamic popula tion model with the dependent value structure .
• We would study trade offs between the strong notions of truthfulness and the computational issues , some of which have been addressed in [ 2 ] , [ 17 ] .
We hope that some of these directions will turn out to be an exciting area of research and contribute to the community of Internet commerce . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank David C . Parkes for many useful discussions , and Pankaj Dayama for discussions and comments on the paper . 6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] S . Athey and I . Segal . An efficient dynamic mechanism . Working Paper , Stanford University , Earlier version circulated in 2004 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] M . Babaioff , R . D . Kleinberg , and A . Slivkins .
Truthful Mechanisms with Implicit Payment Computation . In Proceedings of Electronic Commerce , June 2010 .
[ 3 ] D . Bergemann and J . V¨alim¨aki . The Dynamic Pivot
Mechanism . Econometrica , 78:771–789 , 2010 .
[ 4 ] R . Cavallo . Efficiency and Redistribution in Dynamic
Mechanism Design . In Proceedings of Electronic Commerce . ACM , July 8–12 2008 .
[ 5 ] R . Cavallo , D . C . Parkes , and S . Singh . Optimal coordinated planning amongst self interested agents with private state . In Proceedings of the Twenty second Annual Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence ( UAI 2006 ) , pages 55–62 , 2006 .
[ 6 ] R . Cavallo , D . C . Parkes , and S . Singh . Efficient
Mechanisms with Dynamic Populations and Dynamic Types . Technical report , Harvard University , 2009 . [ 7 ] C . d’Aspremont and L . A . G´erard Varet . Incentives and Incomplete Information . Journal of Public Economics , 11(1):25–45 , 1979 .
[ 8 ] A . Gershkov and B . Moldovanu . Dynamic Revenue
Maximization with Heterogeneous Objects : A Mechanism Design Approach . American Economic Journal : Microeconomics , 1(2):168–198 , 2009 .
[ 9 ] A . Gershkov and B . Moldovanu . Efficient Sequential
Assignment with Incomplete Information . Games and Economic Behavior , 68(1):144–154 , 2010 .
[ 10 ] P . Jehiel and B . Moldovanu . Efficient Design with
Interdependent Valuations . Econometrica , ( 69):1237–1259 , 2001 .
[ 11 ] S . Kakade , I . Lobel , and H . Nazerzadeh . An Optimal
Dynamic Mechanism for Multi Armed Bandit Processes . arXiv:1001.4598v2 , 2010 .
[ 12 ] C . Mezzetti . Mechanism Design with Interdependent
Valuations : Efficiency . Econometrica , 2004 .
[ 13 ] R . B . Myerson . Optimal auction design . Mathematics of Operations Research , 6(5873 ) , 1981 .
[ 14 ] Y . Narahari , D . Garg , R . Narayanam , and H . Prakash .
Game Theoretic Problems in Network Economics and Mechanism Design Solutions . Springer Verlag London Limited , 2009 .
[ 15 ] N . Nisan , T . Roughgarden , E . Tardos , and V . V .
Vazirani , editors . Algorithmic Game Theory . Cambridge University Press , 2007 .
[ 16 ] M . Pai and R . Vohra . Optimal Dynamic Auctions . Unpublished Manuscript , Northwestern University . [ 17 ] D . C . Parkes and A . D . Procaccia . Dynamic Social Choice : Foundations and Algorithms . Unpublished Manuscript , Harvard University , 2010 .
[ 18 ] D . C . Parkes and S . Singh . An MDP based Approach to Online Mechanism Design . In Proceedings of the 17th Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 2003 .
[ 19 ] A . Pavan , I . Segal , and J . Toikka . Dynamic
Mechanism Design : Incentive Compatibility , Profit Maximization and Information Disclosure . Unpublished manuscript , Northwestern University .
[ 20 ] M . Said . Auctions with Dynamic Populations :
Efficiency and Revenue Maximization . In Proceedings of AMMA , 2009 .
[ 21 ] A . D . Sarma , S . Gujar , and Y . Narahari . Multi Armed
Bandit Mechanisms for Multi Slot Sponsored Search Auctions . Unpublished Manuscript , 2010 , arxivorg/pdf/10011414
[ 22 ] W . Vickery . Counterspeculation , Auctions , and
Competitive Sealed Tenders . Journal of Finance , 1961 .
[ 23 ] O . Zoeter . On a form of advertiser cheating in sponsored search and a dynamic VCG solution . In World Wide Web , April 2008 .
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India401
