From Actors , Politicians , to CEOs : Domain Adaptation of Relational Extractors using a Latent Relational Mapping
Danushka Bollegala The University of Tokyo
Hongo 7 3 1 , Tokyo 113 8656 , Japan danushka@ibatu tokyoacjp
Yutaka Matsuo
The University of Tokyo
Hongo 7 3 1 , Tokyo 113 8656 , Japan matsuo@biz modeltu tokyoacjp
Mitsuru Ishizuka
The University of Tokyo
Hongo 7 3 1 , Tokyo 113 8656 , Japan ishizuka@iu tokyoacjp
ABSTRACT We propose a method to adapt an existing relation extraction system to extract new relation types with minimum supervision . Our proposed method comprises two stages : learning a lower dimensional projection between different relations , and learning a relational classifier for the target relation type with instance sampling . We evaluate the proposed method using a dataset that contains 2000 instances for 20 different relation types . Our experimental results show that the proposed method achieves a statistically significant macro average F score of 6277 Moreover , the proposed method outperforms numerous baselines and a previously proposed weaklysupervised relation extraction method .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords Relation Extraction , Domain Adaptation , Web Mining
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The World Wide Web contains information related to numerous real world entities ( eg persons , locations , organizations , etc . ) interconnected by various semantic relations . Accurately detecting the semantic relations that exist between two entities is of paramount importance for information retrieval ( IR ) . For example , to improve coverage in information retrieval , a query about a particular person can return documents describing the various semantic relations that the person under consideration has with other related entities .
Recent work on relation extraction has demonstrated that supervised machine learning algorithms coupled with intelligent feature engineering provide state of the art solutions to this problem [ 3 ] . However , supervised learning algorithms depend heavily on the availability of adequate labeled data for the target relation types that must be extracted . Considering the potentially numerous semantic relations that exist among entities on the Web , it is costly to create labeled data manually for each new relation type that we want to extract . Instead of annotating a large set of training data manually for each new relation type , it would be cost effective if
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . we could somehow adapt an existing relation extraction system to those new relation types using a small set of training instances . We study relation adaptation – how to adapt an existing relation extraction system that is trained to extract some specific relation types , to extract new relation types in a weakly supervised setting . We define Relation Adaptation as the problem of learning a classifier for a target relation type T , for which we have a few entity pairs as training instances , given numerous entity pairs for some N source relation types , S1 , . . . ,SN . We use the notation Ω = {S1 , . . . ,SN ,T } to denote the set of all relations . A particular relation type from this set is denoted by R ( i.e R ∈ Ω ) . An entity pair that consists of two entities A and B is denoted as ( A , B ) . Moreover , we use the notation ( A , B ) ∈ R to indicate that the relation R exists between two entities A and B .
2 . METHOD
Given a pair of entities ( A , B ) , the first step is to express the relation between A and B using some feature representation . Lexical or syntactic patterns have been successfully used in numerous natural language processing tasks involving relation extraction such as extracting hypernyms [ 4 ] . Following the previous work on relation extraction between entities , we use lexical and syntactic patterns extracted from the contexts in which two entities co occur to represent the semantic relation that exists between those entities . First , we download Web snippets for the AND query of the two entities A and B . Next , we replace A and B respectively by two variables X and Y . Finally , we generate subsequence patterns that contain both X and Y . We extract both lexical and syntactic subsequence patterns using an improved version of the subsequence pattern mining algorithm proposed by Bollegala et al . [ 2 ] .
We propose a strategy for selecting relation independent patterns using the entropy of a pattern over the distribution of entity pairs . The proposed strategy is inspired by the fact that if a pattern is relation independent , then its distribution over the entity pairs tends to become more uniform . However , if a pattern is relation specific , then its distribution is concentrated over a small set of entity pairs that belong to a specific relation type . The entropy of a pattern increases as its distribution becomes more uniform . We construct a bipartite graph , G = ( VRS ∪ VRI , E ) between relation specific ( VRS ) and relation independent ( VRI ) patterns to represent the intrinsic relationship between those patterns . Each vertex in VRS corresponds to a relation specific pattern , and each vertex in VRI corresponds to a relation independent pattern . A vertex in VRS ( corresponding to a relation specific pattern ) is connected to a vertex in VRI ( corresponding to a relation independent pattern ) by an undirected edge eij ∈ E . Note that there are no intra set edges connecting vertices in VRS and VRI . Moreover ,
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India13 Table 1 : Macro average results for various methods .
Method Random RS patterns RI patterns All patterns Projected Combined ( all patterns + projected ) RS patterns + Sampling RI patterns + Sampling All patterns + Sampling Projected + Sampling Jiang [ 5 ] Combined + Sampling ( PROPOSED )
F measure
7.24 41.41 51.40 47.94 44.86 56.99 49.78 54.83 57.62 47.61 55.62 62.77 each edge eij ∈ E is associated with a non negative weight mij , that measures the strength of association between the corresponding patterns ρi and ρj . We set mij to the number of different entity pairs from which both ρi and ρj are extracted . Edge weights mij are represented collectively by an edge weight matrix M of the bipartite graph G . For simplicity , we use the number of different entity pairs from which two patterns are extracted as the edgeweighting measure.Given as input an edge weight matrix M for the bipartite graph G and dimensionality k(< n ) of the latent space , we use spectral clustering to compute a projection matrix U from the original n dimensional pattern space to a k dimensional latent space . The low dimensional projection reduces the mismatch between patterns in source and target relation types , thereby enabling us to train a classifier for the target relation type using labeled entity pairs for both source and target relation types .
In relation adaptation , the number of target relation training instances ( entity pairs ) is significantly smaller than that of the source relations . Consequently , most supervised classification algorithms treat the minority class ( target relation ) instances as noise or outliers . Therefore , learning a classifier for a target relation type which has only a few instances is difficult in practice . To overcome this problem , we use one sided under sampling which first selects a subset of the source relation training data and then uses that subset to train a multi class classifier . One sided under sampling methods have been used to select a subset of the majority class in previous work investigating the problem of machine learning with unbalanced datasets [ 6 , 7 ] .
3 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
To evaluate the proposed method , we select 20 relation types that have been used frequently for evaluating relation extraction systems [ 1 , 2 ] from the YAGO ontology1 . For each selected relation , we randomly selected 100 entity pairs listed for that relation in the YAGO ontology . Overall , the dataset contains 2000 ( 20 relations × 100 instances ) entity pairs . The YAGO ontology has a high level of manually confirmed accuracy . It is suitable as a gold standard for evaluating relations between entity pairs on the Web [ 8 ] . For each relation type R , we randomly allocated its 100 instances ( entity pairs ) into three groups : 60 instances as training instances when R is a source relation , 10 instances as training instances when R is a target relation , and 30 instances as test instances for R . For each target relation type , therefore we have 1140 ( 19 × 60 ) source relation training instances and 10 target relation training instances , which well simulates the problem setting in relation adaptation . We repeat the above described data splitting and report the average results of 5 random times .
1http://wwwmpi infmpgde/yago naga/yago/
From Table 1 , we see that the proposed method has the best macro average F measure among all the different methods . In particular , improvement against the previously proposed state of theart weakly supervised relation extraction method [ 5 ] is statistically significant ( paired t test with p < 0.05 inferred as significant ) . The Random baseline on this balanced dataset only yields a very low F score of 725 The RI patterns baseline that uses only relationindependent patterns outperforms the RI patterns baseline that uses only relation specific patterns . Using all the patterns ( ie All patterns baseline ) performs slightly worse than when using only relation independent patterns . One reason for this is that the overall performance of the All patterns baseline is dominated by the numerous relation specific patterns , which adapt poorly to target relations . There can be errors in identifying relation independent patterns using strategies such as mutual information , which engender some noise in the constructed bipartite graph . Consequently , using only the Projected features is not satisfactory . However , by augmenting the original features to the projected features ( ie Combined baseline ) , this problem can be overcome . Next , we evaluate the effect of the one sided undersampling on top of the numerous baselines discussed above . From Table 1 , it is apparent that , by sampling , we consistently improve all the baselines : RS patterns , RI patterns , All patterns , and Projected . In fact , the proposed method , which uses augmented feature vectors with sampling , shows a 6 percent improvement over not using sampling ( ie Combined baseline ) . Moreover , we experimentally verified that the proposed method performs consistently under different parameter settings .
4 . CONCLUSION
We proposed and investigated a method to learn a relational classifier for a target relation using multiple source relations . Our experimental results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms 10 baselines and a previously proposed weakly supervised relation extraction method on a dataset that contains 2000 entity pairs for 20 different relation types . Both feature projection and sampling positively contribute to the proposed method . In future studies , we intend to apply the proposed method to other classification tasks .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Banko , M . Cafarella , S . Soderland , M . Broadhead , and O . Etzioni . Open information extraction from the web . In IJCAI’07 , pages 2670–2676 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] D . Bollegala , Y . Matsuo , and M . Ishizuka . Relational duality : Unsupervised extraction of semantic relations between entities on the web . In WWW’10 , pages 151 – 160 , 2010 .
[ 3 ] Z . GuoDong , S . Jian , Z . Jie , and Z . Min . Exploring various knowledge in relation extraction . In ACL’05 , pages 427 – 434 , 2005 .
[ 4 ] M . Hearst . Automatic acquisition of hyponyms from large text corpora . In COLING’92 , pages 539–545 , 1992 .
[ 5 ] J . Jiang . Multi task transfer learning for weakly supervised relation extraction . In ACL’09 , pages 1012–1020 , 2009 .
[ 6 ] M . Kubat and S . Matwin . Addressing the curse of imbalanced training sets : one sided selection . In ICML’97 , pages 179 – 186 , 1997 .
[ 7 ] F . Provost . Machine learning from imbalanced data sets . In
AAAI’00 Workshop on Imbalanced Data Sets , 2000 .
[ 8 ] F . M . Suchanek , G . Kasneci , and G . Weikum . Yago : A core of semantic knowledge . In WWW’07 , 2007 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India14
