Social Recommender Systems
Ido Guy and David Carmel
IBM Research lab , Haifa 31905 , Israel
{ido,carmel}@ilibmcom
ABSTRACT The goal of this tutorial is to expose participants to the current research on social recommender systems ( ie , recommender systems for the social web ) . Participants will become familiar with state of the art recommendation methods , their classifications according to various criteria , common evaluation methodologies , and potential applications that can utilize social recommender systems . Additionally , open issues and challenges in the field will be discussed .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information storage and retrieval ] [ Information Search and Retrieval ] [ Information filtering ]
General Terms : Algorithms , Human Factors
Keywords : Social recommendation , Recommender systems , Social media
1 . RECOMMENDATION FOR THE SOCIAL
WEB
Social media sites have become tremendously popular in recent years . Prominent examples include photo and video sharing sites such as Flickr and YouTube , blog and wiki systems such as Blogger and Wikipedia , social tagging sites such as Delicious , social network sites such as MySpace and Facebook , and micro blogging sites such as Twitter . Millions of users are active daily in these sites , creating rich information online that has not been available before . Yet , the abundance and popularity of social media sites floods users with huge volumes of information and hence poses a great challenge in terms of information overload .
Social Recommender Systems ( SRSs ) aim to alleviate information overload over social media users by presenting the most attractive and relevant content . SRSs also aim at increasing adoption , engagement , and participation of new and existing users of social media sites . Recommendations of content ( blogs , wikis , etc . ) [ 5 ] , tags [ 9 ] , people [ 3 ] , and communities [ 2 ] often use personalization techniques adapted to the needs and interests of the individual user , or a set of users [ 6 ] .
Social media and personalized recommender systems can mutually benefit from one another : on the one hand , social media introduces new types of public data and metadata , such as tags [ 8 ] , ratings , comments , and explicit people re
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . lationships , which can be utilized to enhance recommendations ; on the other hand , recommender technologies can play a key role in the success of social media applications and the social web as a whole , assuring each user is presented with the most attractive and relevant content , on a personal basis .
In this tutorial , we will discuss the key motivations for social media sites to apply recommendation techniques and review the fundamental recommendation approaches . We will then present the key domains for social recommender systems , both in terms of the recommended entities and target audience . Following , we will review methods for handling the cold start problem , incorporating trust and reputation , and providing useful explanations for the recommendations . We will then discuss several temporal aspects that affect social recommender systems followed by a review of evaluation techniques , with emphasis on the pros and cons of each method . Finally , we will summarize by discussion on open issues and challenges in the field .
This tutorial extends the tutorial titled “ Introduction to Social Recommendation ” given by King et al . at WWW 2010 [ 7 ] . That tutorial introduced a few of the aspects discussed in our proposal , as well as related topics like social search and social media analysis . Our tutorial is a natural extension , providing a deeper dive into more specific aspects of social recommender systems , as detailed below .
2 . TUTORIAL OUTLINE
1 . Introduction :
( cid:129 ) Web 2.0 and Social Media sites ( cid:129 ) Information and Interaction Overload in Social
Media
2 . Fundamental Recommendation approaches
( cid:129 ) Content based ( cid:129 ) Collaborative Filtering ( cid:129 ) Hybrid methods
3 . Recommendation techniques for social media sites
( cid:129 ) Definition ( cid:129 ) Entity Recommendation
– Content recommendation – Tag recommendation – People recommendation
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India283 – Community recommendation
( cid:129 ) Target audience
– Recommendations for individuals – Recommendations for Groups or communi ties
– Recommendations for everyone
4 . The Cold Start problem
( cid:129 ) For new users ( cid:129 ) Of new items
5 . Trust and Reputation
( cid:129 ) Trust aware recommender systems ( cid:129 ) Reputation aware recommender systems
6 . Explanations and Transparency
7 . Social Recommender Systems in the Enterprise
8 . Temporal aspects in social recommendation
( cid:129 ) Data decay factors ( cid:129 ) Recommendation over time ( cid:129 ) Recommendation updates based on the user feed back ( explicit , implicit )
9 . Social recommendation over activity streams ( eg Twit ter , Facebook )
( cid:129 ) Personalized filtering of the stream ( cid:129 ) Utilizing the stream for recommendation
10 . Evaluation methods ( cid:129 ) Offline methods ( cid:129 ) User Surveys ( cid:129 ) Crowdsourcing ( cid:129 ) Live Systems
11 . Summary
( cid:129 ) Open issues ( cid:129 ) Research challenges
3 . PRESENTERS
Ido Guy . manages the Social Technologies group at the IBM Haifa Research Lab , to which he joined in 2000 . Ido has led and contributed to various projects around collaboration technologies and social analytics . In 2010 , he received a Corporate Award for his contribution to Enterprise Social Software .
Ido ’s main area of research activity is social media , with special focus on social network mining and analysis and on recommender systems . He has published various papers , spanning the fields of Human Computer Interaction , Information and Knowledge Management , and Data Mining . In recent years , Ido has been particularly active in the area of Social Recommender Systems , publishing key papers on people recommendation , content recommendation in social media [ 4 , 5 ] , and personalized social search [ 1 ] . He is co chair of the Workshop on Social Recommender Systems ( held at IUI 2010 and CSCW 2011 ) and a guest co editor of the ACM TIST special issue on Social Recommender Systems ( published in 2011 ) . Ido was also co chair of the industry program of the 2010 ACM Recommender Systems conference .
David Carmel . is a Research Staff Member at the Information Retrieval group at IBM Haifa Research Lab . David earned his PhD in Computer Science from the Technion , Israel Institute of Technology in 1997 . David ’s research is focused on search in the enterprise , query performance prediction , social search , social recommendation and text mining . For several years David taught the Introduction to IR course at the CS department at Haifa university .
At IBM , David is a key contributor to IBM enterprise search offerings . David is a co founder of the Juru search engine which provides integrated search capabilities to several IBM products , and was used as a search platform for several studies in the TREC conferences . David has published more than 80 papers in Information retrieval and Web journals and conferences , and serves on the PC of many Web and IR conferences ( SIGIR , WWW , WSDM , CIKM ) . He is a member of the editorial board of the IR journal , and cochaired the WDSM 2011 workshop on user modeling for web applications . David has been involved recently in the area of social search and recommendation [ 1 , 4 , 5 ] .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] David Carmel , Naama Zwerdling , Ido Guy , Shila
Ofek Koifman , Nadav Har’el , Inbal Ronen , Erel Uziel , Sivan Yogev , and Sergey Chernov . Personalized social search based on the user ’s social network . In Proceeding CIKM , pages 1227–1236 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 2 ] Wen Yen Chen , Jon Chyuan Chu , Junyi Luan , Hongjie
Bai , Yi Wang , and Edward Y . Chang . Collaborative filtering for orkut communities : discovery of user latent behavior . In Proceedings of WWW , pages 681–690 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 3 ] Ido Guy , Inbal Ronen , and Eric Wilcox . Do you know ? : recommending people to invite into your social network . In Proceedings of IUI , pages 77–86 . ACM , 2009 . [ 4 ] Ido Guy , Naama Zwerdling , David Carmel , Inbal
Ronen , Erel Uziel , Sivan Yogev , and Shila Ofek Koifman . Personalized recommendation of social software items based on social relations . In Proceedings RecSys , pages 53–60 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 5 ] Ido Guy , Naama Zwerdling , Inbal Ronen , David
Carmel , and Erel Uziel . Social media recommendation based on people and tags . In Proceeding of SIGIR , pages 194–201 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 6 ] Dietmar Jannach , Markus Zanker , Alexander Felfernig , and Gerhard Friedrich . Recommender Systems : An Introduction . Cambridge University Press , 2011 .
[ 7 ] Irwin King , Michael R . Lyu , and Hao Ma . Introduction to social recommendation . In Proceedings of WWW , pages 1355–1356 . ACM , 2010 .
[ 8 ] Shilad Sen , Jesse Vig , and John Riedl . Tagommenders : connecting users to items through tags . In Proceedings of WWW , pages 671–680 . ACM , 2009 .
[ 9 ] B¨orkur Sigurbj¨ornsson and Roelof van Zwol . Flickr tag recommendation based on collective knowledge . In Proceedings of WWW , pages 327–336 . ACM , 2008 .
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India284
