Evaluation of Valuable User Generated Content on Social News Web Sites
∗ Yana Volkovich yanavolkovich@barcelonamediaorg
Andreas Kaltenbrunner andreaskaltenbrunner@barcelonamediaorg
Barcelona Media Centre d’Innovació
Av . Diagonal , 177 , planta 9
Barcelona , Spain
ABSTRACT Social news websites have gained significant popularity over the last few years . The participants of such websites are not only allowed to share news links but also to annotate , to evaluate and to comment them . To quantify interestingness and attractiveness of the user generated content in respect to the original link source we introduce the User Generated Content add on ( U GC+ ) index . Based on the definition of U GC+ we also propose a concept for comparing groups of links filtered by different properties , eg authorship or topiccategories . We apply the proposed measure on the Spanish Digg clone Men´eame .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous ; D28 [ Software Engineering ] : Metrics—complexity measures , performance measures
General Terms Measurement
Keywords User Generated Content , News Aggregator , Social Media
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Nowadays a large part of social communications has moved to social media . In contrast to one to many communication structure of traditional mass media , social media allows the emergence of many to many communication , and gives a rise to mass self communication [ 1 ] . Such selfcommunication generates new information and knowledge on the base of the original content . In particular , social participants of news websites may provide new angles and add dimensions to the original news content by commenting and annotating it .
In this work we study whether user generated content ( UGC ) adds any value to the original content shared on some social news website . To this end we define a measure ∗ This work has been partially funded by the Torres Quevedo Program from the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation , co funded by the European Social Fund .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . of attractiveness of the user generated content in comparison to the original one . To the best of our knowledge such a study has not been undertaken before . We focus our work on social news websites , in particular on the Spanish linksharing website Men´eame . However , the proposed concept can easily be extended to any other link sharing website .
2 . EVALUATION OF UGC
The purpose of a social news sharing platform is to allow users to publish annotated links ( stories ) to the news they consider relevant , to vote and to comment on the stories published by other users . The idea of our User Generated Content add on index ( U GC+ ) is based on the assumption that a person who cites some news story will rather refer to the news sharing website than to the original content if the corresponding story on the news sharing website contains any new valuable information ( eg an interesting discussion within the comments of the post ) . 2.1 UGC add on index
Let l(i ) be a link to an original page i published on some social news website . The difference between the number of citations of the original and referring stories can be used to define the UGC add on index as :
U GC+(l(i ) ) = deg(l(i ) ) sgn[deg(l(i ) ) − α deg(i) ] , where deg(i ) is the in degree of a web page i , and α ∈ ( 0,∞ ) is a parameter . The U GC+ can take positive and negative values . The positive indexes indicate the preference of the annotated link over the original content . The negative numbers with the large absolute values also refer to meaningful social news posts , however , these posts are less interesting than the original links . An U GC+ index close to zero reveals no significant interest of the shared news story for the readers .
The meaning of the parameter α is illustrated in Figure 1(left ) . The selected area , bounded by the line y = αx , corresponds to the positive values of U GC+(α ) . By adjusting the parameter we can change the sign of some stories ( red squares ) . Thus , by choosing α ≤ 1 we could ensure that stories with large but smaller numbers of links than the numbers of references to the original content , still obtain positive values . In this way we can encode the general popularity of the news sharing platform , e . g . to account for a smaller target audience of the website due language barriers .
The definition of U GC+ has several advantages . First , the index can be easily calculated for any user generated page .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India139 ) ) i ( l ( g e d
, y r o t s g n i r r e f e r f o e e r g e d
α1=1
α2
) ) i ( l ( g e d
, y r o t s g n i r r e f e r f o e e r g e d
α1 = 1.5
α2 = 0.375 degree of original story , deg(i ) degree of original story , deg(i )
Figure 1 : The meaning of α parameter
Second , to obtain a high U GC+ it is not only important to have a prevalence of links to the story on the social news website in contrast to the original content ( with respect to α ) but also to have a large number of these references . 2.2 Comparison of groups of links
The parameter α can also be used for comparison of for the analysis of user successfulness groups of links , eg based on the set of links that the user has published , or for the study of what link categories provoke user generated content that is further referred to from other web pages .
For every group we define α such that it equilibrates the fraction of the positive and negative U GC+ indexes for the links in the group . Formally , if {lk n(in)} is the set of all published stories with a certain property , then the corresponding αk is defined as
1 ( i1 ) , . . . , lk
.fi
'ff
.
αk = median deg(lk
1 ( i1 ) ) deg(i1 )
, . . . , deg(lk n(in ) ) deg(in )
Since all original pages have been cited at least on the news sharing website , then deg(i ) = 0 for every i . In Figure 1(right ) the value of αk corresponds to the slope of the line that separates the stories of the same group into two equal sets . If there are more links with large numbers of citations to the social news website ’s entries , then the value of α is larger and vice versa . 2.3 Comparison of individual users .
+}n
To rank website ’s users individually we also introduce a h+ index ( a variant of the h index [ 2 ] ) that measures both , productivity and impact of a user . We denote as {U GC j j=1 the sorted ( in descending order ) list of the U GC+ indexes of the n published links of a user and define the h+ index of the user as the maximum rank number + ≥ j , or in other words , the user has h+ j such that U GC j stories with a U GC+ index greater than h+ , but not h+ + 1 stories that fulfil this condition .
Here we apply the analogy between scientific papers and links on social media websites . The advantage of h+ index is that it is not easily influenced by the number of stories published by a user and by one lucky shot , meaning that there is a story that by chance became very popular .
3 . NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
Men´eame is the most successful Spanish social news website . We use a dataset which covers the time span from Dec . 7th , 2005 ( release date ) till July 14th , 2009 . The data set contains 625 995 stories , 59 303 of which got published ( received enough votes ) . For these published stories we used Yahoo!Search BOSS to obtain both , the number of links from other web pages to the Men´eame story and to the original web page the Men´eame story refers to .
0.35
0.3 energía energy
0.25 salud health m edioa m biente environ m ent novedades novelties hardware internet
α
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0
104 tecnologia technology sucesos incidents
0.35
0.3
103 s t s o p # seguridad software libre security free software software diseño design 102
α
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0 crisis personalidades derechos personalities internacional política politics europa econo mía econo mics
105
104 actualidad news a m éricas the a m ericas e m presas sociedad co m panies politics
103 s t s o p #
102
101
( a ) technology : α = 0.07
( b ) news : α = 0.19
Figure 2 : Distributions of α ( continuous , in color ) per topic categories vs the number of stories ( posts ) per category ( dashed lines ) for two parent categories . Dotted lines indicates α of parent category .
In Figure 2 we present the obtained α ’s for the groups of published stories assigned to selected categories . The shown categories belong to two parent categories : ‘news’ and ‘technology’ ( dotted lines indicate the corresponding α ’s of the parent categories ) . We also plot the distribution of the number of stories ( posts ) per category ( the dashed lines ) . We note that in some cases a small number of stories within a group may lead to a larger value of α , however in general we cannot draw any conclusion about a dependency between these characteristics .
We observe that the most popular categories for publishing stories ( about society , Internet and free software ) do not attract a lot of attention from outside of the news sharing websites , whereas the Men´eame stories about current news and events have a higher probability to be cited , e . g . to be commented valuably or to receive interesting comments . Thus , the users tend to generate more valuable content about current news links rather than about links about technology . In particular , links about software ( software and software libre ) obtain only α = 0.024 and 0.023 , respectively , while the category about incidents ( sucesos ) has the largest value of α = 03 We suspect that U GC+ index indicates the real preferences of the users of the social news website better than traditional measures ( eg the number of posts per category ) .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we have introduced an approach to quantify the interestingness and attractiveness of user generated content in respect to the original content . We believe that this approach should be further investigated both , by defining U GC+ through more sophisticated page measures ( eg PageRank ) and by applying the framework for social evaluation of the content on some other websites where participants are allowed to share and to comment external links .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Castells . Communication power . Oxford University
Press , USA , 2009 .
[ 2 ] J . E . Hirsch . An index to quantify an individual ’s scientific research output . PNAS , 102(46):16569 , 2005 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India140
