Exploiting Session like Behaviors in Tag Prediction
Dawei Yin
Liangjie Hong
Brian D . Davison
Department of Computer Science & Engineering , Lehigh University
Bethlehem , PA , USA
{day207 , lih307 , davison}@cselehighedu
ABSTRACT In social bookmarking systems , existing methods in tag prediction have shown that the performance of prediction can be significantly improved by modeling users’ preferences . However , these preferences are usually treated as constant over time , neglecting the temporal factor within users’ behaviors . In this paper , we study the problem of session like behavior in social tagging systems and demonstrate that the predictive performance can be improved by considering sessions . Experiments , conducted on three public datasets , show that our session based method can outperform baselines and two state of the art algorithms significantly .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Performance
Keywords : social tagging , tag recommendation , personalized tag prediction
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Collaborative tagging systems have become widely used for sharing and organizing resources . While collaborative tagging systems could allow their users to freely choose nearly all possible terms to tag resources , the usability of these systems might be greatly affected and even degraded when vocabularies are totally uncontrolled . Thus , a system that can provide suggestions and recommendations when users are about to assign tags to new resources can improve human computer interactions and the organization of a collective knowledge base as well .
In web search , it is well understood that users will create and refine queries that reflect an underlying information need , providing some level of temporal stability in topics of interest as reflected in the sequence of queries used in a search session . In other forms of collaborative filtering and recommendation systems , performance of recommenders has been greatly improved by incorporating temporal factors into the models [ 1 ] . However , in tagging systems , temporal behavior analysis is often neglected in existing methods . In the long term , users’ high level interests may be relatively stable and drift slowly over time . In the short term , however , users may hold a narrow interest within a short time period and so we call it session like behavior . In this paper , we first verify the existence of session like behaviors in tagging systems and based on this property , we propose a tag prediction method which can outperform the state of the art .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
2 . SESSION LIKE BEHAVIORS
Let U be the set of users u , I be the set of resources i , T be the set of tags t and M be the set of timestamps τ . Additionally , S is the set of all records s , representing the relations among the four types of objects , S ⊆ U × I × T × M . Each record ( u , i , t , τ ) ∈ S means that user u has tagged an item i with the tag t at time τ . Here , we also define Ps as all the distinct user itemtime combinations : Ps = {(u , i , τ )|∃t ∈ T : ( u , i , t , τ ) ∈ S} . We use three public datasets , the Bibsonomy dataset of the ECML PKDD 09 Challenge Workshop1 with content , a nd the Delicious and Flickr datasets crawled by Gorlitz2 without content . We arbitrarily choose the Jaccard coefficient to measure the similarity of |Tp.∩Tp| the set of tags between two posts p and p . |Tp.∪Tp| . To verify the existence of session like behavior , the similarity of . posts within a short time interval is calculated . For a post p of user u , we compute its similarity to neighboring posts defined by a time interval τ . Ju(p , τ ) = p.∈P ,p=p Jp,p . , where P . = Pτp−τ /2<τ <τp+τ /2,u means the set of posts which are temporally around post p within τ /2 . Then we can generate the mean for the whole data set to examine how typical similarity might change as the time interval varies as Jp,p . =
1|P .|−1
' fi u fi p∈Pu
1 |Pu| ff
Ju(p , l )
J(t ) =
1 |U|
Figure 1 shows the results . The first two points on the time axis is τ = 10 minutes and τ = 30 minutes and the remaining points are fractions of a day . The three datasets display similar trends . We can see that within 10 minutes , the users’ behaviors tend to be the same and for all three datasets , we get highest values on similarity measurement . From 10 minutes to 0.2 days , a dramatic drop occurs and when τ > 0.2 day , the mean similarity decreases slowly . That means , on average , users’ interest sessions may hold for up to about five hours , during which users tend to use similar tags . Beyond five hours , users tend to switch to other topics .
3 . TAG PREDICTION
From the above analysis , it is clear that users may keep their interest in some topic for a while . The results only show the average proximity on the whole dataset . We believe that different users may have different session lengths . Intuitively , if two consecutive posts do not share any tags , it is highly likely that there is a topic switch . Here , we again use Jaccard ’s coefficient to define the topic switches . For a user , let pi−1,pi be two consecutive 1http://wwwkdecsuni kasselde/ws/dc09/ 2https://wwwuni koblenzde/FB4/Institutes/IFI/AGStaab/ Research/DataSets/PINTSExperimentsDataSets/
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India167 0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3 c J e g a r e v A
0.2
10m 0.1 bibsonomy flickr delicous
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Time ( day )
Figure 1 : Jaccard ’s coefficient as a function of time posts , whose timestamps are τi−1 ≤ τi and tag sets are Ti−1 and Ti . Use Jpi−1,pi as the measurement of the topic switch at post pi . The personalized session lengths for each user are controlled by a global parameter κ . If Jpi−1,pi < κ , the post Jpi is considered as a topic switch . If we make an assumption that the current test post is not a topic switch post , our method will find an earlier post where the most recent topic switch happened , and predict tags based only on the latest session . Although κ is a shared parameter among all users , it generates personalized topic lifetime for users . We model the short term interests within a session by assuming that P ( t|u)—the probability of all tags occurring—follows a multinomial distribution , from which the MLE gives us a simple representation of session interests : p.∈P .
Pτp ( t|u ) = c(t , p.|u ) c(t . , p.|u ) where c(t . , p.|u ) is the number of times that tag t . occurs on post p . , and usually users use a tag only once . P . u is the set of posts which belong to the latest interest session for user u . We call it session model . p.∈P .
.
. . t . u u
In the above session model , we made an assumption that the current test post is not a topic switch post ; however , in fact , the current post may be the start of a new session . We believe that the time interval from the current test post to the most recent post can help predict such a case . Intuitively , the longer the interval is , the higher probability of the new session starts . To measure whether the current post pc is the start of a new session , we propose a function Jpc = f ( τc ) , R → R where Jpc is the predicted tag similarity between the current test post pc and the last post based on the time interval . For the current test post pc of user u , we have all past posts of user u—Pu . For every two consecutive posts pi−1,pi , we have a time intervalτ i = τpi,u − τpi−1 and their similarity value Ji = Jpi−1,pi . Then we have a set of samples ( τ1 , J1 ) , ( τ2 , J2 ) , , ( τn , Jn ) , from which we need to learn the function Jpc = f ( τc ) . While there are many regression methods , we use a non parametric technique—the nearest neighbor method . Compared to kernel methods , the nearest neighbor method defines points local to τc not through the fixed kernel bandwidth , but instead on a set of points closest to τc , measured by the distance di,c = |τi − τc| . Then the regression at τc is calculated as Jpc =
.
. i wi·Ji i wi
. wi is a tri cube weight function )3)3 di,c ≤ dk,c di,c > dk,c
( 1 − ( di,c dk,c 0 wi = where only k of n points closest to τc are considered as the neighborhood and dk,c is the distance of the furthest τc . Following the
Table 1 : F measure results for tag prediction
Method Long term model Session model Combination model LHKM YXHD
Bibsonomy Delicious
0.244 0.333 0.357 0.136 0.309
0.162 0.272 N/A N/A N/A
Flickr 0.369 0.670 N/A N/A N/A previous definition : if Jpc ≥ κ , the current test post will still stay in the current session and the session based prediction method will be employed while if Jpc < κ , we will treat this test post as the start of a new session and so at this moment , we will employ content based methods to predict . In our experiments , the leading content only method—Lipzcak ’s method is employed [ 2].We call it the combination model .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
For the Bibsonomy dataset , we use the same test dataset as in [ 3 ] . There are 668 test posts which are randomly sampled along the timeline and the remaining posts constitute the training dataset Strain . In Delicious and Flickr , we randomly choose 1000 test posts . We use the online evaluation model , which is suggested in [ 3 ] . F Measure is measured at the break even point . κ is tuned and set as κ = 01
In all three datasets , we compare this session model with the baseline—long term interests—which simply uses the most frequent tags in the past . The results are shown in the Table 1 . As expected , the results of session based interests model is much better than long term interests . In Bibsonomy data where item content are included , we combined the session based method with the content based methods—LHKM [ 2 ] . We also compare with the state of the art method [ 3 ] , which we term YXHD . It is surprising that the results of the long term interest model can outperform the champion non personalized content method , LHKM [ 2 ] . We find that the combination model achieves the best performance—Fmeasure of 357 We also notice that even the single session model can outperform the state of the art . This implies a new direction— temporal analysis—for the tag prediction problem .
5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper , we verify the existence of session like behaviors in tagging systems and find that our session based methods can outperform the baseline methods and two state of the art algorithms . These results also suggest that temporal analysis is an important factor in tagging systems . Acknowledgments This work was supported in part by a grant from the National Science Foundation under award IIS 0545875 .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Y . Koren . Collaborative filtering with temporal dynamics . In Proc . of
ACM SIGKDD , pages 447–456 , 2009 .
[ 2 ] M . Lipczak , Y . Hu , Y . Kollet , and E . Milios . Tag sources for recommendation in collaborative tagging systems . In ECML/PKDD Discovery Challenge Workshop ( DC09 ) , 2009 .
[ 3 ] D . Yin , Z . Xue , L . Hong , and B . D . Davison . A probabilistic model for personalized tag prediction . In Proc . of ACM SIGKDD , pages 959–968 , 2010 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India168
