Location Relevance Classification for Travelogue Digests
Mao Ye1†∗
†Department of Computer Science & Engineering , The Pennsylvania State University , PA , USA .
, Rong Xiao2‡ , Wang Chien Lee1† , and Xing Xie2‡
1{mxy177,wlee}@csepsuedu
2{rong,xingxie}@microsoftcom
‡Microsoft Research Asia , Beijing , China .
ABSTRACT location relevance , we explore the textual ( eg , surrounding words ) and geographical ( eg , geographical relationship among locations ) features of locations to perform location relevance classification for theme location discovery . Finally , we conduct comprehensive experiments on collected travelogues to evaluate the performance of our location relevance classification technique and demonstrate the effectiveness of the travelogue service .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Filtering
General Terms Experimentation
Keywords classification , travelogue services
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the advantages of Web 2.0 technology , many people are willing to share their travelogues , which record travel experiences , on weblogs , forums and social communities for travels . These travelogues usually contain rich travel information , such as the tours , lodging , meals , expenses , weather conditions , and so on , which are highly valuable to a trip planner . In this paper , we propose to develop automatic travelogue mining techniques to convey useful information in a travelogue to help trip planning .
Siesta Key It is a paradise found in Sarasota , FL , located a little over an hour drive south to Tampa , FL . I like to spend time there mainly at beaches and bars We got back to Boston after one week vocation .
Figure 1 : A paragraph in a travelogue for Siesta Key . Relevant locations are in bold , and irrelevant locations are in italic . ∗ This work was done when the author was visiting Microsoft Research Asia .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
As a travelogue intends to record activities and experiences of its author at locations on a trip ( ie , the whereabout of the trip ) , a key problem is to find theme locations , ie , locations appeared in a travelogue which are closely relevant to the main themes of the travelogue . However , due to the nature of human language presentation , locations mentioned by a document are not necessarily theme locations of the travelogue . For example , in Figure 1 , Siesta Key is very relevant to the theme of this paragraph but Boston is not . Thus , there is a need for location relevance classification for theme location discovery .
2 . LOCATION RELEVANCE CLASSIFICA
TION
Location relevance classification aims to discover the theme locations for a given travelogue . It is essential to identify useful features of a location that can help to assess whether the location is relevant to main themes of the travelogue or not . Since travelogues are textual documents recording the authors’ experiences in touring places of interests , it naturally contains textual and geographical features .
One the one hand , for a travelogue , we usually have a title to summarize the theme of the travel . The most relevant locations are usually included there . What ’s more , interested locations might be mentioned several times in a travelogue , while irrelevant locations appear less frequently . According to this observation , we extract two kinds of features , namely , is in title ? ( denoted as F1 ) and number of appearance ( denoted as F2 ) , respectively . Besides , surrounding words of a location also provides useful hints . For example , in Figure 1 , one may easily understand that “ Siesta Key ” is the most relevant location name in this paragraph , because important locations are usually heading the paragraphs . Thus for a location in a travelogue , we use its surrounding words to extract bag of word feature ( denoted as F3 ) and syntactic pattern feature ( denoted as F4 ) to describe the location . Those above four features are categorized as textual feature . On the other hand , each location as a physical entity holds geographical properties in the real word . For example , location names referred in a travelogue usually have different location types in location partonomy . Location names with smaller scope usually hold higher relevance , otherwise , travelers would not bother to mention that small place . Thus , we consider the location type to be an important feature , named as location type ( denoted as F5 ) . Additionally , relevant locations are usually clustered in the partonomy hierarchy of a location ontology . Moreover , people would likely to stay in the same state or the same city during the trip .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India163 Nation
State
United States
Florida State
Massachusetts
State
City/County
Sarasota
Tampa
Boston
Township or even smaller
Siesta Key
( 1 ) long distance away ( 2 ) belong to different states
Figure 2 : Partonomy hierarchy of locations mentioned in the travelogue shown in Figure 1
Therefore , we consider that partonomy distance among the locations provides important information to leverage relevant locations . More specifically , we extract the partonomy distance among locations as a geographical feature ( denoted as F6 ) . Finally , if two locations are far away , eg , Siesta Key and Boston in Figure 2 , only one of them could mostly be the relevant location for a travelogue . Therefore , we consider geographical proximity between two different locations ( mentioned in the same travelogue ) to be another important geographical feature ( denoted as F7 ) . The above three features are named geographical features .
3 . PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
To evaluate the performance of location relevance classification and the effectiveness of proposed travelogue services , we collected approximately 100,000 travelogues in English ( from travel web site such as TravelPod 1 , IgoUgo2 and TravelBlog 3 ) with location labels fallen in United States to form an English Corpus . Nevertheless , instead of relying on the location labels directly , we implemented a location extractor [ 2 ] to extract locations mentioned in these travelogues , yielding 18,000 unique locations . Because the task require evaluation by human beings with travel related background and knowledge , we also built a Chinese Corpus by collecting travelogues from Ctrip4 , which consists of 94,000 Chinese travelogues related to around 32,000 locations in China .
In the first experiment , Precision and Recall are used to evaluate the performance location relevance classification . Note that , location classified as relevant are considered as the theme location to a travelogue . Thus , the performance of location relevance classification also demonstrate the effectiveness of travelogue digests of theme locations . To facilitate the study on impact of extracted features , we form the following three feature groups : ( 1 ) baseline group , containing features F1 and F2 ; ( 2 ) textual group we consider all textual features ; ( 3 ) textual+geographical group we consider both the textual and geographical features . And we labeled 1,000 travelogues in the Chinese Corpus for our performance evaluation . Among those 1,000 labeled travelogues , we randomly select 100 travelogues as the test set and the remaining travelogues for training . Figure 3 shows the precisionrecall curves of location relevance classification with different feature groups . We found that the baseline group ( ie , whether the location appears in the title and the count of lo
1http://wwwtravepodcom 2http://igougo.com 3http://wwwtravelblogcom 4http://wwwctripcom cations in a travelogue ) already provides strong support for deciding relevant locations . However , classifier using baseline features is effective only to some extent . With more textual features , the location relevance classifier gain some improvement . Finally , as shown in Figure 3 , geographical features also enhance the performance of location relevance classification .
Next , we would like to evaluate whether location relevance classification can help improve the accuracy for geographical scope identification [ 1 ] . Since there is no existing dataset with labeled geographical scope . We use the travelogues labeled with theme locations to derive the ground truth and use labeled theme locations as inputs for our geographical scope computation algorithm . We introduce two performance metrics , namely , average number of missing scopes ( ie , the correct scopes not found ) and average number of wrong scopes ( ie , the scopes found incorrectly ) to evaluate the performance . We compare our approach which takes theme locations as input for geographical scope computation with a naive approach that considers all locations as input . As shown in Figure 4 , our approach achieves a much better performance than the naive approach in terms of average number of wrong scopes , while remain to be competitive in terms of average number of missing scopes .
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6 i i n o s c e r P
0.5
0.2 baseline textual textual + geo
0.4
0.6
Recall
0.8
1
# e g a r e v A
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Naive Classification
Missing scopes Wrong scopes
Figure 3 : Location relevance classification
Figure 4 : Geographical scope
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we study the problem of location relevance classification to support the travelogue service , which discovers and conveys travelogue digests such as theme locations and geographical scope to readers . Since travelogues are textual documents recording the authors’ experiences in touring places of interests , we explore the textual and geographical features of locations to realize the location relevance classification . Finally , we conduct comprehensive experiments on collected travelogues to evaluate the performance of our location relevance classification technique and demonstrate the effectiveness of the travelogue service .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Amitay , N . Har’El , R . Sivan , and A . Soffer .
Web a where : geotagging web content . In SIGIR , 2004 .
[ 2 ] T . Qin , R . Xiao , L . Fang , X . Xie , and L . Zhang . An
Efficient Location Extraction Algorithm by Leveraging Web Contextual Information . In GIS , 2010 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India164
