Generating Summaries for Ontology Search
Gong Cheng
Weiyi Ge petercheng456@gmail.com State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology , Nanjing University , Nanjing 210093 , China geweiyi@gmail.com
Yuzhong Qu yzqu@njueducn
ABSTRACT This poster proposes a novel approach for generating summaries for ontology search . Following previous work , we define ontology summarization as the problem of ranking and selecting RDF sentences , for which we examine three aspects . Firstly , to assess the salience of RDF sentences in an ontology , we devise a bipartite graph model for representing the ontology and analyze random walks on this graph . Secondly , to reflect how an ontology is matched with user needs expressed via keyword queries , we incorporate query relevance into the selection of RDF sentences . Finally , to improve the unity of a summary , we optimize its cohesion in terms of the connections between constituent RDF sentences . We have implemented an online prototype system called Falcons Ontology Search .
Categories and Subject Descriptors G.3 [ Mathematics of Computing ] : Probability and Statistics—Markov processes ; H12 [ Models and Principles ] : User/Machine Systems—human factors , human information processing ; H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing—abstracting methods
General Terms Algorithms , Human Factors
Keywords Cohesion , ontology summarization , query relevance , random walk , ranking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
When building a Web application , reusing an existing ontology could not only facilitate domain modeling but also place the application on a “ semantic bus ” where different applications easily interchange the meaning of their semantically homogeneous data . For systems that support ontology reuse such as an ontology search engine , a key feature is how to assist users in finding relevant ontologies efficiently , given that a returned ontology may define a great many term ( ie class and property ) specifications . To this end , ontology summarization [ 2 ] has been proposed to extract a salient
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0632 4/11/03 .
Figure 1 : Four RDF sentences . part of an ontology to enable fast investigation . In this work , we propose a new method for computing salience . Further , we combine it with two other metrics , namely query relevance and cohesion , to form a solution to generating summaries for ontology search . The solution has been applied to an ontology search engine called Falcons Ontology Search ( http://wsnjueducn/falcons/ontologysearch/ )
2 . PROBLEM STATEMENT
Following [ 2 ] , the RDF graph representation of an ontology has a unique finest partition that satisfies : two RDF triples that share common blank nodes are in the same part . Each part , being an RDF graph by itself , is called an RDF sentence . For example , Fig 1 illustrates four RDF sentences . Then a summary of an ontology is defined as a subset of RDF sentences subject to a size constraint in terms of the total number of their constituent RDF triples .
In this work , we consider ontology summarization as an optimization problem by introducing an objective function that characterizes the goodness of a summary S of an ontology o wrt a keyword query Q :
Goodness(o ; S ; Q ) ,(1 − ff − fi ) · Salience(o ; S )
+ ff · Relevance(S ; Q ) + fi · Cohesion(S ) ;
( 1 ) in which ff ; fi ; ff + fi ∈ [ 0 ; 1 ] are weighting coefficients . This function linearly combines three aspects , which will be detailed in the next section . rdfs:subClassOf(b)rdfs:ranges1s2s3rdfs:subClassOfrdf:typeowl:onPropertyowl:someValuesFroms4rdf:typeWWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India27 TextSim(s ; Q ) , | KWSet(s ) ∩ Q| | KWSet(s)| ∑
Relevance(S ; Q ) ,
:
( 4 )
Finally , the query relevance of a summary S is given by : how the ontology matches the user ’s needs carried by the query . We achieve this by constructing a textual representation for every RDF sentence and measuring how similar to the query it exhibits .
Specifically , let KWSet(s ) be the set of normalized ( eg lowercased ) keywords found in RDF sentence s . These keywords come from the local name of every term described by s and the lexical form of every literal that occurs in s . A query Q is also defined as a set of keywords . Thereby , the textual similarity between s and Q could be defined as the “ precision ” of KWSet(s ) in matching Q :
TextSim(s ; Q ) :
( 5 ) s∈S
3.3 Cohesion
Cohesion indicates the user perceived unity of a summary . In ontology summarization , it can be achieved by having constituent RDF sentences referring to the same thing , ie they are connected by the terms they describe in common . A direct benefit from increasing such interconnections is that , if we visualize a summary as a merge of its constituent RDF sentences , this resulting RDF graph will be less disconnected so that it could better characterize the semantic relationships between terms . Such relationships function as additional information provided to users and may lead to more accurate relevance judgments in search .
Specifically , given Describes(s ) being the set of terms described by RDF sentence s , we define the connection between two RDF sentences : Connection(si ; sj ) , | Describes(si ) ∩ Describes(sj)| : Finally , the cohesion of a summary S is given by :
( 6 )
∑
Cohesion(S ) ,
Connection(si ; sj ) :
( 7 ) si;sj∈S si̸=sj
4 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We have described a novel approach for summarizing ontologies , and have implemented it in a newly developed ontology search engine . In future work , we will have a more in depth look at the hypothetical surfer ’s behavior of random walks on STG . We will also conduct an empirical study to compare this work with existing approaches .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the NSFC under Grant 60973024 .
We would like to thank Dr . Xiang Zhang and anonymous reviewers for their invaluable comments .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Lempel and S . Moran . SALSA : The stochastic approach for link structure analysis . ACM Trans . Inf . Syst . , 19(2):131–160 , April 2001 .
[ 2 ] X . Zhang , G . Cheng , and Y . Qu . Ontology summarization based on rdf sentence graph . In Proc . WWW , pages 707–716 , May 2007 .
Figure 2 : A sentence term graph .
3 . METRICS
In this section , we elaborate on the metrics we leverage to rank and select RDF sentences into a query biased summary of an ontology for being used in the search scenario . 3.1 Salience
In an ontology , an RDF sentence describes one or more terms ; a term is described by one or more RDF sentences . These lead to a bipartite graph that models such description relationship between RDF sentences and terms , which we call sentence term graph ( STG ) . Figure 2 illustrates an STG induced by the RDF sentences shown in Fig 1 . Note that we say an RDF sentence describes a term if , in the RDF sentence , the term has an occurrence that is not an instantiation ( ie as the object of an RDF triple whose predicate is rdf:type , or as the predicate of an RDF triple ) . For instance , in Fig 1 , s3 describes vin:Region , and thus , in Fig 2 , ⟨s3 ; vin:Region⟩ ∈ STG .
Different from [ 2 ] that operates on an RDF Sentence Graph ,
∑ here we measure the salience of an RDF sentence by computing its centrality on the STG induced by its ontology . To this end , we adapt the well known PageRank algorithm for this bipartite graph setting . Specifically , let PRr(s ) be the ranking score of an RDF sentence s at state r , which is iteratively updated as follows :
PRr+1(s ) , 1 −
+ ·
; n
{⟨s′;t⟩∈STG |∃⟨s;t⟩∈STG}
PRr(s ) d(s′ ) · d(t ) ( 2 ) in which ∈ ( 0 ; 1 ) is a dumping factor , n is the total number of RDF sentences in o , and d returns the degree of a node in STG . To exploit PageRank , inspired by [ 1 ] , we actually treat every path of length 2 from one RDF sentence to another in STG as a “ link ” between them ; we assume a surfer , who performs random walks between RDF sentences , at each step either jumps to any RDF sentence or follows a “ link ” to some RDF sentence ; the surfer selects targets always using a uniform probability distribution .
′
Finally , in PageRank it has been proved that PRr(s ) con(s ) that does not depend on verges toward a constant PR any initial values of PR . With PR ( s ) that represents the centrality of s in the ontology and thus characterizes its salience , we define the salience of a summary S as :
∗
∗
Salience(o ; S ) ,
∗ PR
( s ) :
( 3 )
∑ s∈S
3.2 Query Relevance
In the context of ontology search fed by a keyword query submitted by a user , the selection of RDF sentences should reflect not only the most salient part of an ontology but also
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India28
