Scalable Integration and Processing of Linked Data∗
Andreas Harth
Institute AIFB , Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
76128 Karlsruhe , Germany harth@kit.edu
Aidan Hogan
Digital Enterprise Research Institute ( DERI ) , National
University of Ireland , Galway
Galway , Ireland aidanhogan@deriorg
Spyros Kotoulas
Dept . of Computer Science , Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 1081 HV , Amsterdam , The
Netherlands kot@fewvunl
Jacopo Urbani
Dept . of Computer Science , Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 1081 HV , Amsterdam , The
Netherlands jacopo@csvunl
ABSTRACT The goal of this tutorial is to introduce , motivate and detail techniques for integrating heterogeneous structured data from across the Web . Inspired by the growth in Linked Data publishing , our tutorial aims at educating Web researchers and practitioners about this new publishing paradigm . The tutorial will show how Linked Data enables uniform access , parsing and interpretation of data , and how this novel wealth of structured data can potentially be exploited for creating new applications or enhancing existing ones .
As such , the tutorial will focus on Linked Data publishing and related Semantic Web technologies , introducing scalable techniques for crawling , indexing and automatically integrating structured heterogeneous Web data through reasoning .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : [ On line Information Services ]
General Terms Management
1 . OVERVIEW
Linked Data is now a central topic in the Semantic Web ; with recent adoption by governmental agencies ( eg , data.gov , datagovuk ) and corporate entities ( eg , BestBuy , BBC , New York Times , Facebook , Metaweb ) complimenting rich community driven exports ( eg , DBpedia , Geonames , FOAF and SIOC ) , its importance is steadily growing . Linked Data provides a rich source of openly available structured data which current Web applications and research can exploit . As more and more Linked Data is published , such growth challenges the community to develop technologies which can ∗ PlanetData ( FP7 257641 ) and LarKC ( FP7 215535 )
Supported by the European Commission through projects
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . handle data at Web scale . Taking these cues , our tutorial will focus on ( i ) pragmatic and ( ii ) scalable techniques for consuming Linked Data which are ( iii ) applicable to heterogeneous datasets as now available on the Web . These techniques include crawling , querying , reasoning and composing pipelined workflows for processing Linked Data . Semantic Web technologies are often presented in a more theoretical or research focused scope , whereas we will provide a more tangible introduction and hands on approach to the topic , thus targeting the wider Web community—as such , our tutorial is tailored to be of interest to a wide catchment of WWW 2011 attendees .
2 . CONTENT
2.1 Introduction to RDF and Linked Data
The first session gives an overview of RDF and Linked Data publishing . We will discuss the RDF data model and Linked Data principles for publishing RDF data on the Web . In particular , this session will cover :
• RDF rationale and basics • Linked Data principles and introduction • Current adoption and trends in Linked Data
Example materials include slides discussing end user benefits of Governmental Linked Data , presented at the ICT 2010 event organised by the European Commission1 and a paper discussing Linked Data publishing ( see [ 2] ) . 2.2 Scalable Linked Data Crawling
This session gives an overview of the state of the art in efficient data retrieval techniques , including novel challenges and techniques for crawling Linked Data from the Web . We will present the architecture of a crawler for small to medium sized datasets in the range to several hundred million triples . In particular , this session will cover : • Linked Data location , access and crawling
1 http://wwww3org/2010/09/egov session ict2010/ open data applications.pdf
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India295 • Scalable crawling techniques and algorithms • Description of the open source LDSpider Linked Data crawler
Example materials include open source code for crawling Linked Data2 , papers discussing scalable RDF crawling ( see [ 3] ) ; and presentation on the MultiCrawler architecture for distributed crawling of structured data3 . 2.3 Scalable RDF Indexing Techniques
This session presents scalable techniques for indexing and querying local repositories of Linked Data . We will discuss the standardised SPARQL query language and thereafter discuss the state of the art in RDF storage with respect to research , directions and applications . In particular , this session will cover :
• Overview and challenges • Introduction to the SPARQL standard • Scalable RDF indexing systems Example materials include the paper [ 1 ] and presentation4 on the YARS2 distributed RDF storage system . 2.4 Reasoning : Motivation and Overview
This session gives an introduction to the RDFS and OWL standards and to rule based reasoning , with heavy emphasis on motivating reasoning for the Linked Data use case and for integrating heterogeneous data from a large number of diverse sources . We also introduce algorithms which incorporate information about the provenance of data during reasoning to ensure robustness in the face of noisy or impudent remote data . In particular , this session will cover :
• Introduction to RDFS/OWL • Introduction to rule based reasoning • Motivating reasoning with respect to Linked Data • Web reasoning approaches ( web scale/web tolerant )
Example materials include papers relating to Linked Data reasoning ( see [ 6 , 4] ) ; a tutorial introduction to Linked Data and OWL5 ; Talis Research Seminar on reasoning over Web Data6 . 2.5 Scalable Distributed Reasoning over Map
Reduce
This session presents scalable distributed reasoning using the MapReduce distribution framework , enabling high performance over a cluster of commodity hardware . This session details the MapReduce framework ( employed by Google and Yahoo , among others ) and the award winning WebPIE system which integrates optimised execution strategies for rules supporting a ( pragmatic ) fragment of OWL semantics .
• MapReduce architecture
2
3
4
5
6 http://codegooglecom/p/ldspider/ http://videolectures.net/iswc06_harth_ciswd/ http://videolectures.net/iswc07_harth_frs/ http://wwwabdnacuk/~csc280/tutorial/eswc2010/ http://vimeo.com/15255566
• Core optimisations and approach for distributed rea soning
• Implementing RDFS • Extension to pD* ( OWL Horst ) • Hands on : how to launch the reasoner on a cluster and on the Amazon cloud
Example materials include papers on reasoning over the MapReduce framework ( see [ 6 , 5] ) ; Talis Research Seminar on scalable reasoning7 ; the official WebPIE page8 . 2.6 Hands on : Implementing a LarKC Work flow
This session allows attendees to get hands on with building scalable linked data applications . Some of the technologies presented in the previous sessions will be put together using a scalable workflow engine tailored for Linked Data : the Large Knowledge Collider ( LarKC ) . • Workflow overview and rationale • LarKC platform overview • Hands on : Building a LarKC Workflow for crawling and reasoning over Linked Data
Example materials include a tutorial on the LarKC archi tecture9 .
3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Harth , J . Umbrich , A . Hogan , and S . Decker .
YARS2 : A federated repository for querying graph structured data from the web . In 6th International Semantic Web Conference , 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference , pages 211–224 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] A . Hogan , A . Harth , A . Passant , S . Decker , and A . Polleres . Weaving the Pedantic Web . In 3rd International Workshop on Linked Data on the Web ( LDOW2010 ) , Apr . 2010 .
[ 3 ] A . Hogan , A . Harth , J . Umbrich , S . Kinsella ,
A . Polleres , and S . Decker . Searching and Browsing Linked Data with SWSE : the Semantic Web Search Engine . Technical report , Digital Enterprise Research Institute , Galway , 2010 . http://wwwderiie/ fileadmin/documents/DERI TR 2010 07 23pdf
[ 4 ] A . Hogan , J . Z . Pan , A . Polleres , and S . Decker . SAOR :
Template Rule Optimisations for Distributed Reasoning over 1 Billion Linked Data Triples . In International Semantic Web Conference , 2010 .
[ 5 ] J . Urbani , S . Kotoulas , J . Maassen , F . van Harmelen , and H . E . Bal . OWL Reasoning with WebPIE : Calculating the Closure of 100 Billion Triples . In ESWC ( 1 ) , pages 213–227 , 2010 .
[ 6 ] J . Urbani , S . Kotoulas , E . Oren , and F . van Harmelen .
Scalable Distributed Reasoning Using MapReduce . In International Semantic Web Conference , pages 634–649 , 2009 .
7
8
9 http://vimeo.com/15256587 http://csvunl/webpie http://videolectures.net/eswc2010_kotoulas_iotl/
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India296
