Citizen Sensor Data Mining , Social Media Analytics and
Development Centric Web Applications
Amit Sheth Knoesis Center
Wright State University
Dayton , OH , USA http://knoesis.org/amit amit@knoesis.org
Selvam Velmurugan eMoksha and Kiirti Seattle , WA , USA http://emoksha.org selvam@emoksha.org
Meena Nagarajan
IBM Almaden Research Center
San Jose , CA , USA http://bit.ly/m33naa
MeenaNagarajan@usibmcom
ABSTRACT
With the rapid rise in the popularity of social media ( 500M+ Facebook users , 100M+ twitter users ) , and near ubiquitous mobile access ( 4.1 billion actively used mobile phones ) , the sharing of observations and opinions has become common place ( nearly 100M tweets a day , 1.8 trillion SMSs in US last year ) . This has given us an unprecedented access to the pulse of a populace and the ability to perform analytics on social data to support a variety of socially intelligent applications be it towards targeted online content delivery , crisis management , organizing revolutions or promoting social development in underdeveloped and developing countries . This tutorial will address challenges and techniques for building applications that support a broad variety of users and types of social media . This tutorial will focus on social intelligence applications for social development , and cover the following research efforts in sufficient depth : 1 ) understanding and analysis of informal text , esp . microblogs ( eg , issues of cultural entity extraction and role of semantic/background knowledge enhanced techniques ) , and 2 ) building social media analytics platforms . Technical identification of computational techniques and real world examples . Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 On line Information Service , H31 Content Analysis and Indexing H33 Information Search and Retrieval insights will be coupled with
General Terms Algorithms , Economics , Human Factors , Languages .
Keywords Citizen sensing , social signals , user generated content , social media analysis , semantic social mashup , semantic social web , social development application , people content network view of social media , mobile development application .
INTRODUCTION
This tutorial weaves together three themes and respective topics : 1 . Opportunity to exploit the massive amounts of social data that have resulted from the participation of millions of users through a wide variety of on line interaction mechanisms and types of social data . Some examples are SMS through
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . simple mobile phones , tweets with time and location coordinates , as well as multi sensory metadata from smartphones .
2 . People Content Network view of analyzing social media use , including technical challenges and recent research efforts in extracting metadata from casual/informal user generated content on social media platforms .
3 . Experiences in building robust and scalable platforms and applications to serve the needs of ( a ) users at the top of the pyramid ( 1.5 billion users with smart phones and modern network access ) as well as ( b ) users in the middle of the pyramid ( 3 billion users with mobile phones without access to Internet or modern networks).1
Three parts of the tutorial are described next .
PART I : SOCIAL MEDIA & CITIZEN SENSING
We will review patterns of participation along three facets : Technology , Diversity , and Purpose . 1 . Technological : Web , Mobile including SMS and Smartphones with sensors 2.Diversity of Social Media : variety of technical capabilities and features , as well as diversity in demographics across different platforms yielding a variety of content ( eg , well written blogs vs poorly structured comments on MySpace ) 3 . transactional , broadcast/sharing , short term events , long term situations , science and development . Examples of citizen sensing : citizen science , political events , natural disasters and activism .
PART 2 : SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT CENTRIC PLATFORMS AND APPLICATIONS :
We will discuss system architecture , scalability , robustness , deployment , etc . [ 1 ] along with the challenges and experiences in building systems that exploit user generated data for diverse personal/informational ,
Purpose :
1 This use of pyramid http://bit.ly/i8na79 courtesy of Ramesh
Jain .
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India289 classes of social development centric applications . Some examples are as follows : ( a ) Ushahidi ( ushahi.org ) , eMoksha ( emoksha.org ) , Kiirti ( kiirti.org ) , Sahana ( sahanafoundation.org ) , and other real world platforms for development centric applications and crisis management in developing countries . We will borrow from case studies at Harvard , Columbia and institutions worldwide on the use of eMoksha/Kiirti projects involving social media and technologies for development . [ 4 ] ( c ) Twitris —application that supports spatio temporal thematic analysis and extraction of social signals from microblogs , also complemented by news , Web 2.0 , and image/video sources ( http://twitrisknoesisorg ) [ 3 ] ( d ) Twarql annotations and management of streaming Tweets , encoding information from microblog posts as Linked Open Data for collectively analyzing microblog data for sensemaking ( http://wikiknoesisorg/indexphp/Twarql ) [ 5 ]
PART 3 : METADATA EXTRACTION FROM USER GENERATED DATA AND ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES
( a ) Different types of data and metadata : 
Structured and unstructured component of data sources Structured metadata : spatio , thematic data , profile/user demographic data , attention metadata ( likes , views , listens , clicks , tags etc . ) temporal ,
 Unstructured component of data : user generated textual content ranging from relatively context sparse microblogs , forum messages , to context rich blogs .
( b ) Resources used in metadata extraction : Task independent domain knowledge , task specific domain information , linguistic and cultural features , network features , temporal and spatial properties of data . ( c ) Metadata extraction from unstructured textual social data ( indepth treatment ) : Extraction of different types of metadata relevant to social development centric applications entity , sentiment , intention etc . ( d ) Continuous semantics and real time data annotation/extraction of real time data/streams ( with the example of Twarql , dynamic model creation , and real time analysis , http://bitly/c sem ) A variety of techniques used to exploit metadata , support analysis and achieve insights will also be discussed with a related literature review . This will include the unique role of Semantic Web standards , techniques for building advanced capabilities . [ 2 ] INTENDED AUDIENCE AND COVERAGE
The tutorial will interest both researchers ( primarily related to tracks identified below ) as well as technologists . The talk covers relatively new frontiers in research demonstrated via examples and also covers research efforts that have matured to large scale deployments . Although the content analysis portion of the technologies and this interest tutorial will presentation will be discussed in depth , attendees are not expected to have any specialized background and/or knowledge ( use of examples will make it easier to gain technical insights ) . Those with a background in more traditional text analysis will be able to understand the novel technical challenges dealing with short and informal text as well as other aspects of social data
From subject/area perspective , participants from multiple tracks : ■ Social Systems and Graph Mining — eg , issues of information diffusion ■ Bridging Structured and Unstructured Data — eg , extensive and synergistic use of both structured metadata , Web of data , background knowledge and unstructured data ■ Content Analysis — eg , spatio temporal thematic sentimentintension analysis with specific challenges in social data ■ Semantic Web — eg , how use of background knowledge improves machine techniques resulting in improved NER on informal text ■ Web of Emerging Regions — coverage of not only twitter and Web/Mobile Web but also SMS extensively used in developing nations , including applications related to development and crisis management which is of special relevance to emerging regions
The tutorial will provide breadth and depth of research on some topics matched by real world applications as well as a combination of perspectives from academic , industry and nongovernmental organizations . learning and statistical NLP
REFERENCES
[ 1 ] D . Gruhl , M . Nagarajan , J . Pieper , C . Robson , A . Sheth ,
Multimodal Social Intelligence in a Real Time Dashboard System , special issue on 'Data Management and Mining for Social Networks and Social Media' , the VLDB Journal , 19 ( 6 ) , 2010 . http://portalacmorg/citationcfm?id=1921807 [ 2 ] A . Sheth , Citizen Sensing , Social Signals , and Enriching
Human Experience , IEEE Internet Computing , July/August 2009 , pp . 80 85 . http://wwwcomputerorg/portal/web/csdl/doi/101109/MIC2 009.77
[ 3 ] M . Nagarajan , K . Gomadam , A . Sheth , A . Ranabahu , R .
Mutharaju and A . Jadhav , Spatio Temporal Thematic Analysis of Citizen Sensor Data Challenges and Experiences , 10th Intl Conf on Web Information Systems Engineering , Oct 5 7 , 2009 , pp . 539 553 . http://wwwspringerlinkcom/content/q682443076047208/ [ 4 ] OSI , Harvard and Columbia Case Studies covering project carried out by Selvam's NGOs : see http://emoksha.org
[ 5 ] P . Mendes , A . Passant , P . Kapanipathi , A . Sheth , "Linked
Open Social Signals," WI2010 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence ( WI 10 ) , Toronto , Canada , Aug . 31 to Sep . 3 , 2010 .
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India290
