Ranking on Large Scale Graphs with Rich Metadata
Bin Gao
Microsoft Research Asia 4F , Sigma Center , No . 49 ,
Zhichun Road
Taifeng Wang
Microsoft Research Asia 4F , Sigma Center , No . 49 ,
Zhichun Road
Tie Yan Liu
Microsoft Research Asia 4F , Sigma Center , No . 49 ,
Zhichun Road
Beijing , 100190 , P . R . China bingao@microsoft.com
Beijing , 100190 , P . R . China taifengw@microsoft.com
Beijing , 100190 , P . R . China tyliu@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT For many Web applications , one needs to deal with the ranking problem on large scale graphs with rich metadata . However , it is non trivial to perform efficient and effective ranking on them . On one aspect , we need to design scalable algorithms . On another aspect , we also need to develop powerful computational infrastructure to support these algorithms . This tutorial aims at giving a timely introduction to the promising advances in the aforementioned aspects in recent years , and providing the audiences with a comprehensive view on the related literature .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; H54 [ Information Interface and Presentation ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia .
General Terms Algorithm , Experimentation , Theory
Keywords Large scale graph , graph ranking , Markov process , MapReduce .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In many Web applications , we need to tackle the problem of ranking on large scale graphs with rich metadata . For example , to compute page importance ranking for search , one may need to analyze the link structure of the Web graph ; to understand Web user behaviors and preferences , one may need to rank the nodes on user page bipartite graphs extracted from search engine logs ; and to make recommendations in online community , one may need to conduct ranking on the social network graph . All these graphs are of very large scale and contain rich information ( represented by rich metadata ) . As a result , it is non trivial to perform efficient and effective ranking on them . On one aspect , we need to design scalable algorithms . On another aspect , we also need to develop powerful computational infrastructure to support these algorithms . We observe that in recent years , there are some promising advances in the aforementioned aspects , which can potentially enhance many important Web search
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . and data mining applications , and greatly advance the state of the art of the related research . This tutorial aims at giving a timely introduction to these works , and providing the audiences with a comprehensive view on the related literature . We believe many researchers in the Web search and data mining community would have interest in listening to this tutorial , and we hope that they can be motivated to participate in the research of large scale graph ranking with rich metadata .
2 . TUTORIAL DESCRIPTION
We will organize the tutorial into six parts . In the first part , a brief introduction of large scale graphs with rich metadata and their properties will be given . The widely used mathematical tools and models to represent these graphs and rich metadata will be introduced .
In the second part , we will focus on unsupervised ranking on large scale graphs . We propose a unified view on the unsupervised graph ranking algorithms , ie , they are generative models based on some stochastic processes . Specifically , a general ranking framework based on Markov skeleton process [ 8 , 9 ] will be introduced . The algorithms in the literature are organized in two categories .
• Graph ranking algorithms on single graph . To compute page importance ranking in Web graphs , HITS [ 10 ] and PageRank [ 13 ] were proposed , which are based on the analysis of link structures of Web graphs . These methods can be explained using random walks on a discrete time Markov process . After that , quite a few link analysis algorithms like TrustRank [ 7 ] and PopRank [ 12 ] were developed to improve HITS and PageRank to robustly deal with web spam , and to handle heterogeneous graphs . BrowseRank [ 11 ] was proposed recently to consider rich metadata ( eg , visiting frequency and staying time ) in user behavior data for page importance ranking , which is based on a new mathematical tool continuous time Markov process . MobileRank [ 6 ] and BrowseRank Plus [ 6 ] further improved BrowseRank in considering more dependency between different nodes in the graph and more metadata . It has been shown that most of these algorithms can be summarized into a general framework based on Markov skeleton process .
• Graph ranking algorithms on graph series . Mining on a time series of graph snapshots also attract much interests in recent years . Basically with the graph series , one can find some trends or to obtain
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India285 a more stable ranking results . We will introduce such kind of work like TemporalRank [ 16 ] . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pages 14 23 , 2006 .
In the third part , we will introduce supervised large scale graph ranking algorithms . We propose a unified view on the supervised graph ranking algorithms , ie , they are discriminative models on some graph based smoothing function . Specifically , a supervised/semi supervised graph ranking framework will be introduced .
• Supervised/Semi supervised graph ranking algorithms . Recently people have realized that unsupervised graph ranking sometimes might not be consistent with human intuition . To solve the problem , supervised or semi supervised graph ranking schemes have been considered . Take importance ranking on graphs as an example , there are several pieces of work along this line . LiftHITS [ 5 ] learns from user feedback to realign the eigenvectors of the link matrix in HITS . Adaptive PageRank [ 15 ] alters the PageRank scores according to human feedback , using a quadratic programming technique . NetRank [ 2 , 4 , 1 ] provides a uniform framework for learning the parameters of Markov random walks on graphs according to supervision in terms of pairwise preference between nodes . In Laplacian Rank [ 3 , 17 , 14 ] , the supervised graph ranking problem was formulated as minimizing the combination of the empirical error and a regularization term represented by graph . Semi supervised PageRank considers both graph structure and the rich metadata contained in node features and edge features in the ranking process .
In the fourth part , we make complexity analysis on the above mentioned algorithms , to discuss their scalability and efficiency . Based on the discussion , we give some guidelines on designing highly scalable and efficient algorithms for large scale graph ranking algorithms .
In the fifth part , we discuss how to design a distributed system to support large scale graph ranking algorithms , and how to parallel existing algorithms to better fit into the system . The design principles for such a distributed system will first be discussed , and then a real system will be explained in detail , which has been used in a commercial search engine . This system contains a map reduce engines specifically optimized for graph operations , as well as a rich pool of graph operators such as graph traverse , graph partitioning , and graph sampling . It is easy to implement a graph ranking algorithm on this platform . We will take Semi supervised PageRank as an example to make detailed discussion on this process .
In the last part of the tutorial , the future research directions regarding large scale graph ranking with rich metadata , and open questions and challenges will be discussed .
3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Agarwal and S . Chakrabarti . Learning random walks to rank nodes in graphs . In the proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML ) , pages 9 16 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] A . Agarwal , S . Chakrabarti , and S . Aggarwal .
Learning to rank networked entites . In the proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference
[ 3 ] S . Agarwal . Ranking on graph data . In the proceedings of the 23th International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML ) , pages 25 32 , 2006 .
[ 4 ] S . Chakrabarti and A . Agarwal . Learning parameters in entity relationship graphs from ranking preferences . In the proceedings of the 10th European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases ( PKDD ) , volume 4213 , pages 91 102 , 2006 . [ 5 ] H . Chang , D . Cohn , and A . K . McCallum . Learning to create customized authority lists . In the proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML ) , pages 127 134 , 2000 .
[ 6 ] B . Gao , T . Liu , Z . Ma , T . Wang , and H . Li . A general markov framework for page importance computation . In CIKM’09 , pp , 1835 1838 , 2009 .
[ 7 ] Z . Gyongyi , H . Garcia Molina , and J . Pedersen .
Combating web spam with trustrank . In VLDB ’04 , pages 576–587 . VLDB Endowment , 2004 .
[ 8 ] Z . Hou and G . Liu . Markov Skeleton Processes and their Applications . Science Press and International Press , 2005 .
[ 9 ] Z . Hou , Z . Liu , and J . Zou . Markov Skeleton
Processes . In Chinese Science Bulletin , vol 43 , no 11 , pages 881 889 , June , 1998 .
[ 10 ] J . M . Kleinberg . Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment . In the proceedings of the 9th Annual ACM SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms ( SODA ) , pages 668 677 , 1998 .
[ 11 ] Y . Liu , B . Gao , T . Liu , Y . Zhang , Z . Ma , S . He , and
H . Li . BrowseRank : letting users vote for page importance . In SIGIR ’08 , pages 451–458 , 2008 .
[ 12 ] Z . Nie , Y . Zhang , J . Wen , and W . Ma . Object Level
Ranking : Bringing Order to Web Objects . In WWW’05 , 2005 .
[ 13 ] L . Page , S . Brin , R . Motwani , and T . Winograd . The
PageRank citation ranking : bringing order to the web . Technical report , Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project , 1998 .
[ 14 ] D . Rao , and D . Yarowsky . Ranking and semi supervised classification on large scale graphs using map reduce . In the proceedings of the 4th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing of the Asian Federation of Natural Language Processing ( ACL IJCNLP ) , 2009 .
[ 15 ] A . C . Tsoi , G . Morini , F . Scarselli , M . Hagenbuchner , and M . Maggini . Adaptive ranking of Web pages . In the proceedings of the 12th International World Wide Web Conference ( WWW ) , pages 356 365 , 2003 .
[ 16 ] L . Yang , L . Qi , Y . Zhao , B . Gao , and T . Liu Link
Analysis using Time Series of Web Graphs . In CIKM’07 , pp . 1011 1014 , 2007 .
[ 17 ] D . Zhou , J . Huang , and B . Scholkopf . Learning from labeled and unlabeled data on a directed graph . In the proceedings of the 22th International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML ) , pages 1041 1048 , 2005 .
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India286
