Autopedia : Automatic Domain Independent Wikipedia
Article Generation
Sicong Shou
Dept . of Comput . Sci .
Peking Univ . Beijing , China ssc@netpkueducn
HongYan Liu
School of Economics and
Management Tsinghua Univ . Beijing , China
Conglei Yao HP Labs China
HP Labs
Beijing , China congleiyao@hpcom
Xu Jia
Dept . of Comput . Sci . Renmin Univ . of China
Beijing , China jiaxu@ruceducn
Shicong Feng HP Labs China
HP Labs
Beijing , China shicongfeng@hpcom
Feng Zhou
School of Comput . Sci .
Beijing Univ . of Technology
Beijing , China fengzhou2@hpcom liuhy@semtsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT This paper proposes a general framework , named Autopedia , to generate high quality wikipedia articles for given concepts in any domains , by automatically selecting the best wikipedia template consisting the sub topics to organize the article for the input concept . Experimental results on 4 , 526 concepts validate the effectiveness of Autopedia , and the wikipedia template selection approach which takes into account both the template quality and the semantic relatedness between the input concept and its sibling concepts , performs the best .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I26 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Learning—Knowledge acquisition
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords Wikipedia , article generation , template selection , domain independent
1 .
INTRODUCTION
As the largest online encyclopedia , Wikipedia provides a large number of human edited articles for popular concepts in most domains . In each article , some sub topics are selected and described to provide a summary of the corresponding concept . Although Wikipedia has provided a large number of high quality articles for popular concepts , it only covers a small part of popular concepts in major domains due to the huge cost of manually creating and editing articles .
Our objective is to automatically generate high quality Wikipedia articles for any given concepts in any domains .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Figure 1 : independent wikipedia article generation
Framework of automatic domain
To achieve this goal , we must discover the best template for each given concept to characterize its major sub topics which should be covered by its article , as well as the related keywords for each sub topic . Then , we can retrieve the related web pages and extract the corresponding paragraphs for each sub topic , to generate the article .
We propose a general framework to generate high quality Wikipedia articles for given concepts in any domains . Under this framework,we propose four ever increasing methods to select the best template automatically , to support the domain independent wikipedia article generation .
2 . AUTOPEDIA FRAMEWORK
We propose the framework of Autopedia as illustrated in Figure 1 . The offline component , template learning , learns the hidden template for each Wikipdia category by clustering the sub topics in the articles of this category . After learning the templates , for a given concept , we can generate its Wikipedia article in three steps .
In the first step , sibling concept extraction , we can get a
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India161 Figure 2 : Bipartite graph between sibling concepts and wikipedia templates set of Wikipedia concepts which are of the same classes with the given concept by leveraging the automatic set instance extraction tools ( eg , Google Sets ) .
After that , for each sibling concept , we can get its categories in Wikipedia , and establish the relation between it and the hidden templates of these categories . We then propose an approach ( in wikipedia template selection component ) to analyze such relationships to calculate the importances of templates , and select the best template with the highest importance value .
Finally , in wikipedia article generation component , for each sub topic in the selected template , we can utilize its keywords to create queries , to retrieve related paragraphs from the Web , and generate the final Wikipedia article . 2.1 Wikipedia template selection
We can represent the relationships between the sibling concepts and wikipedia templates using a bipartite graph G as illustrated in Figure 2 , where ci is a sibling concept , Tj is a wikipedia template . An edge exists between ci and Tj when ci belongs to the wikipedia category from whose articles the template Tj is learned .
Intuitively , we can use the indegree of a template Tj to measure its importance :
IM ( Tj ) = deg−(Tj ) k=1 deg−(Tk ) maxm
( 1 ) where deg−(Tj ) is the indegree of Tj .
If we take into account the semantic relatedness between each sibling concept with the input concept , we can calculate the template importance as :
IMst(Tj ) =
− deg
( Tj ) = maxm n deg−(Tj ) k=1 deg−(Tk ) f ( i , j ) ∗ r(ci , c0 )
( 2 )
( 3 ) i=1 where r(ci , c0 ) is the semantic relatedness between ci and the input concept c0 , and can be measured using Pointwise Mutual Information Information Retrieval ( PMI IR ) [ 1 ] method . The value of f ( i , j ) is 1 if an edge exists between ci and Tj , and is 0 if not .
We can also integrate the quality of the each wikipedia template into the template importance calculation :
IMqt(Tj ) = IM ( Tj)Q(Tj )
( 4 ) where Q(Tj ) is the quality score of Tj , and the details of Q(Tj ) can be found in the technical report 1 .
1http://fusionhplhpcom/autopedia/techreportpdf
Table 1 : Top 5 best categories and the corresponding concepts
Template/category name
Uncovered concepts
BRIT Award winners
BAFTA winners ( people )
Italian Ministers of Foreign Affairs
PlayStation 2 games
Banks of Norway
Guy Masterson , Jo Human
Albert Fortell , Daniel Breton
Emilio Sereni , Guido Fanti
Operation Air Assault
Modum SpareBank , Totens Sparebank
Table 2 : Performance comparison of the four proposed template selection approaches
Approach
TemplatePrecision
T S T Sst T Sqt T Scb
0.2749 0.2945 0.6799 0.7611
We can also integrate both the semantic relatedness between concepts and the template quality into the template importance calculation :
IMcb(Tj ) = IMst(Tj)Q(Tj )
( 5 )
Through this way , we have four different template selection approaches , T S , T Sst , T Sqt and T Scb , which correspond to the four template importance calculation equations , IM , IMst , IMqt and IMcb , respectively .
3 . EXPERIMENTS we randomly select 4,526 concepts from 17,908,995 concepts which have been labeled as concepts in Wikipedia but have no corresponding articles , and use Google sets to extract sibling concepts for them .
We firstly manually annotate the best template for each selected concept , from the templates of its sibling wikipedia concepts . From the annotation results , we find that all the 4,526 concepts corresponding to 831 different best categories . We also list the top 5 best template/category names as well as one or two concepts in Table 1 . We can see that the selected concepts can cover enough domains to validate the effectiveness of our proposed approaches .
We then use the proposed approaches to select the best templates for all the selected concepts , and compare the results with the gold standard to compute the corresponding template precision values . The results are illustrated in Table 2 . We can see that the simple indegree based method T S can only get poorer performance , and better performance can be achieved by incorporating the semantic relatedness between selected concepts and their sibling concepts ( T Sst ) , or the template quality scores ( T Sqt ) . Furthermore , T Sqt can achieve much better performance than T Sst , which indicates that the template selection is more sensitive to template quality , and our template quality score calculation method is effective . Finally , we can see that the best performance is achieved by T Scb , which combines both the template quality and the semantic relatedness between uncovered concepts and their sibling concepts . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Turney . Mining the Web for Synonyms : PMI IR versus LSA on TOEFL . In Proceedings of the twelfth european conference on machine learning ( ecml 2001 ) , pages 491–502 , 2001 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India162
