Second International Workshop on RESTful Design ( WS REST 2011 )
Cesare Pautasso Faculty of Informatics University of Lugano cesarepautasso@usich
Erik Wilde
School of Information
UC Berkeley dret@berkeley.edu
Rosa Alarcon
Pontificia Universidad Catolica
Computer Science Dep . ralarcon@ingpuccl
ABSTRACT Over the past few years , the discussion between the two major architectural styles for designing and implementing Web services , the RPC oriented approach and the resourceoriented approach , has been mainly held outside of traditional research communities . Mailing lists , forums and developer communities have seen long and fascinating debates around the assumptions , strengths , and weaknesses of these two approaches . The Second International Workshop on RESTful Design ( WS REST 2011 ) has the goal of getting more researchers involved in the debate by providing a forum where discussions around the resource oriented style of Web services design take place . Representational State Transfer ( REST ) is an architectural style and as such can be applied in different ways , can be extended by additional constraints , or can be specialized with more specific interaction patterns . WS REST is the premier forum for discussing research ideas , novel applications and results centered around REST at the World Wide Web conference , which provides a great setting to host this second edition of the workshop dedicated to research on the architectural style underlying the Web .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C20 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : General
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Languages , Standardization , Theory
Keywords REST , HTTP , Web Architecture , Web Services
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the advent of service orientation and Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) as important new approaches for large scale IT system design , it has become an important ( and sometimes contentious ) issue what to define as a “ service ” . While many definitions in the scope of SOA stay on a very abstract level , eventually services need to be mapped to concrete IT architectures . In this area , there are two main design approaches . One approach has been to use a functional approach to services and define them in a way resembling a collection of Messages and Remote Procedure
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Calls ; this approach has also been the underlying principles of existing middleware frameworks , such as CORBA . The other approach is to center the design on resources instead of functions ; this approach has its main background in Representational State Transfer ( REST ) [ 1 ] , the architectural style underlying the Web .
Discussions about REST and the advantages and limitations of this approach gained some momentum , but they were mostly conducted in email forums and discussion groups . The First International Workshop on RESTful Design ( WSREST 2010 ) [ 2 ] was held at the WWW2010 conference in April 2010 and attracted more than 70 registrations ; it was the second largest workshop held at WWW2010 . The acceptance ratio of the papers for last year ’s edition was 35 % : 10 accepted papers out of 28 submissions . Because of the high quality of the submitted papers and the interest for the topic that we experienced , we are currently editing a book , called “ REST : From Research to Practice , ” that is based on the papers and submissions of WS REST 2010 and will be published in early 2011 [ 3 ] .
The Second International Workshop on RESTful Design ( WS REST 2011 ) has been planned based on last year ’s success as a venue to continue the discussions around REST , its applications , and possible extensions or adaptations in the area of academic research . One of the main goals of WSREST 2011 is to bring application oriented developers and academic research closer together , so that discussions about RESTful design can be both informed by real world usage and constraints , and also benefit from research in the areas of information systems and information integration that has been ongoing for a long time . Our goal is to build WS REST into a series of events that will become one of the main forums to discuss how Web architecture and Web services can be brought together in a way that is useful and works well for both service providers and consumers .
2 . WORKSHOP TOPICS
REST is the architectural style underlying the Web ’s architecture and is the crucial difference between the Web ’s decentralization and loose coupling , and the distributed and more tightly coupled approaches seen in many other information system architectures . When the term “ Web Service ” first appeared in the late 1990s , it was first mostly associated with architectures using HTTP as a transport protocol and building RPC services on top of that , starting with XMLRPC , and then continuing with SOAP . These Web services evolved into a complex and heavyweight set of layered specifications . As a response to this development of Web services ,
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India311 REST gained attention as a more lightweight approach , and as one that explicitly did not target integration but cooperation , and that was using resources as the primary abstraction of architectures , as opposed to function calls . For a long time , SOAP and REST Web services were both regarded as different approaches to solve the same problem . However , it appears as if REST is now gaining more momentum in the Web oriented spectrum of service design and implementation .
Over the past two years , with the W3C ’s “ Workshop on Web of Services for Enterprise Computing ” marking an important inflection point , the discussion between the two major architectural styles for designing and implementing Web services , the RPC oriented approach and the resource oriented approach , has been mainly held outside of traditional research communities . Mailing lists , forums and developer communities have seen long and fascinating debates around the assumptions , strengths , and weaknesses of these two approaches . The RESTful approach to web services has received significant amount of attention from industry and developer communities as indicated by the numerous technical books on the topic . At the same time , academics are just starting to pay attention to the research implications of applying REST to advanced decentralized system scenarios . With this workshop proposal , we want to get more researchers involved in the debate by providing a forum where discussions around current research on the resource oriented style of Web services take place . We are not interested in providing a forum for merely presenting RESTful services , but instead want to focus of research that advances the field by tackling new problems , making interesting comparisons , drawing novel conclusions , or tackling the hard problem of how to decide when to apply REST , and when to use something else .
3 . ORGANIZERS
• Cesare Pautasso is assistant professor in the new Faculty of Informatics at the University of Lugano , Switzerland . Previously he was a researcher at the IBM Zurich Research Lab and a senior researcher at ETH Z¨urich . His research focuses on building experimental systems to explore the intersection of model driven software composition techniques , business process modeling languages , and autonomic/Grid computing . His teaching , training , and consulting activities cover advanced topics related to Web Development , Middleware , Service Oriented Architectures and emerging Web services technologies . He is has recently organized the 3rd International Workshop on Web APIs and Services Mashups at OOPSLA ( Mashups’09 ) . He is currently co authoring a book on SOA with REST , to be published by Prentice Hall . • Erik Wilde is associate adjunct professor at the UC Berkeley School of Information . He holds a diploma in computer science from the Technical University of Berlin , and a PhD from ETH Z¨urich . His general interest is Web architecture and Web oriented information architecture . His research focus is on XML and related technologies , Web services and REST , and loosely coupled architectures for exposing data and services in easily usable and accessible ways .
• Rosa Alarcon is assistant professor in the Computer Science Department at Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile . She is member of SIGSE , the Special Interest Group on Software Engineering at PUC , and she is particularly interested in Service Oriented Architecture , software composition , distributed systems and web architecture . She was a post doc researcher at UC Berkeley where she focused on the REST architectural style as a platform for supporting service composition that enables Business Processes . She received a PhD from the Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile , where she is currently exploring the relationship of RESTful services and the Linked Data project , as well as the design of semantic models for standardized media types and its impact on Mashups and crawlers .
4 . PROGRAM COMMITTEE
The program committee of WS REST 2011 has been assembled to thoroughly review all submissions to the workshop . Each submission is reviewed by various PC members , which results in a fair and balanced reviewing process and a helpful feedback for the authors . The program committee of WS REST 2011 consists of :
• Rosa Alarcon , Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile • Jan Algermissen , Nord Software Consulting , Germany • Subbu Allamaraju , Yahoo Inc . , USA • Mike Amundsen , USA • Benjamin Carlyle , Australia • Stuart Charlton , Canada • Duncan Cragg , ThoughtWorks , UK • Joe Gregorio , Google , USA • Michael Hausenblas , DERI , Ireland • Ralph Johnson , University of Illinois , USA • Rohit Khare , 4K Associates , USA • Yves Lafon , W3C , USA • Frank Leymann , University of Stuttgart , Germany • Alexandros Marinos , University of Surrey , UK • Cesare Pautasso , Faculty of Informatics , USI Lugano , • Ian Robinson , Thoughtworks , UK • Stefan Tilkov , innoQ , Germany • Steve Vinoski , Verivue , USA • Tomas Vitvar , ProgrammableWeb • Jim Webber , NEO4J • Erik Wilde , School of Information , UC Berkeley , USA • Olaf Zimmermann , IBM Zurich Research Lab , Switzer
Switzerland land
We would like to extend our thanks to our colleagues who agreed to served on the committee and helped the organizers , the authors , and the community by making WS REST 2011 happen .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Roy Thomas Fielding . Architectural Styles and the Design of Network based Software Architectures . PhD thesis , University of California , Irvine , Irvine , California , 2000 .
[ 2 ] Cesare Pautasso , Erik Wilde , and Alexandros Marinos , editors . First International Workshop on RESTful Design ( WS REST 2010 ) , Raleigh , North Carolina , April 2010 .
[ 3 ] Erik Wilde and Cesare Pautasso , editors . REST : From
Research to Practice . Springer Verlag , Heidelberg , Germany , 2011 .
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India312
