A Framework for Evaluating Network Measures for
Functional Importance
Tieyun Qian
State Key Lab of Software
Eng . , Wuhan Univ .
Hubei , China qty@whueducn
Qing Li
Dept . of Comp . Sci .
City Univ . of Hong Kong
HongKong , China itqli@cityueduhk
Jaideep Srivastava
Dept . of Comp . Sci . and Eng . Univ . of Minnesota , Twin Cities
Minnesota , USA srivasta@csumnedu
ABSTRACT Many metrics such as degree , closeness , and PageRank have been introduced to determine the relative importance of a node within a network . The desired function of a network , however , is domain specific . For example , the robustness can be crucial for a communication network , while efficiency is more preferred for fast spreading of advertisements in viral marketing . The information provided by some widely used measures are often conflicting under such varying demands . In this paper , we present a novel framework for evaluating network metrics regarding typical functional requirements . We also propose an analysis of five well established measures to compare their performance of ranking nodes on functional importance in a real life network .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database applications
General Terms Measurement , Performance
Keywords Network Metrics , Functional Importance
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Identifying important nodes is a ubiquitous problem in graph theory and network analysis . There are a wide variety of metrics introduced in the literature for users to choose . For example , the closeness centrality reflects the mean geodesic distance between a vertex and all other vertices reachable from it , and PageRank [ 1 ] considers the importance of each page by recursively counting the number and PageRank metric of all pages that link to it . These measures have their own biases and may provide inconsistent information . Figure 1 shows a sample network , and the three top nodes of this graph under betweenness , eigenvector and pagerank metrics are listed in Table 1 . It is clear from Table 1 that different measures generate substantially different orderings . Moreover , the desired function of a network varies case by case . For instance , the vulnerability under attack or random breakdown could be crucial for a communication network . In contrast , viral marketing requires influence maximization through the world of mouth effect among recipients . Hence the question is : which is the most
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Figure 1 : A sample network with 10 nodes .
Table 1 : Rankings of top 3 nodes for sample network by different metrics
Betweenness EigenVector PageRank top 1 top 2 top 3
5 8 2
2 5 4
5 2 8 appropriate metric for finding the most important nodes to a given application ?
In this paper , we relate the raised problem with the permutation of nodes according to their functional importance of an application domain , and we present an evaluation methodology for this problem based on ranking correlation , which will allow users to compare the metrics from a domainspecific view . Given a network , firstly we characterize the function of a network as a structural feature in the graph . Secondly , we define the functional importance of a node in terms of the loss in structural property incurred by the deletion of the node . Thirdly , we evaluate the ranking correlation between the permutation generated by each metric and by the functional importance . By comparing the correlation coefficients between different metrics and functional importance , we finally get a complete vision of all metrics , and the right metric for a given application domain can be easily selected .
2 . EVALUATION OF NETWORK MEASURES
FOR FUNCTIONAL IMPORTANCE
In the field of network analysis , the networks are often characterized from a topological point of view , and recent advances in network theory reveal that there is a connection between network structure and function [ 3 ] . As a preliminary attempt , in this paper we focus the application of our framework on the requirement of connectivity of a graph , and we report our results on five well established network measures , ie degree centrality(dc ) , closeness centrality(cc ) ,
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India109 betweenness centrality(bc ) , eigenvector centrality(ec ) , and PageRank(pr ) .
2.1 Characterizing the functional requirement First , we present our preliminary study of the functional need about connectivity . Connectivity is a basic property determining the robustness of a network . For example , research in complex network has demonstrated that intentional attacks on nodes critical in connectivity will quickly disrupt a network .
Let G(V , E ) be a graph , directed or undirected , with n = |V | nodes and m = |E| edges . Let SCC be the the largest strongly connected component in G . Following the notion described in [ 2 ] , we quantify the connectivity of a network G as :
Ωc(G ) =argmax |SCC(G)|
( 1 )
2.2 Computing the functional importance
The importance of a node to the network varies with its topology . For instance , the breakdown of a leaf node in a star network will not affect communications among others . In contrast , failure of any middle nodes in a chain network renders the network inoperable . For a structural property p , which relates to a specific demand in network function , we define the importance of a vertex v as :
ωp(v ) = Ωp(G ) − Ωp(G− v ) ,
( 2 ) where graph G− v is the remaining graph of G after the deletion of a node v .
With this definition , we can calculate the functional importance for each node in G . For example , if we investigate the connectivity property of the sample network shown in Figure 1 , we can find that vertex #5 is of the largest importance , and then follows vertex #8 . The removal of these two nodes will bring 6 and 3 loss in Ωc , respectively , whereas the connectivity score only decreases 1 upon the deletion of any other nodes in the graph .
2.3 Measuring the ranking distance
Given a network measure m , there exists a permutation corresponding to the values of m for each node in V . The n raw scores are converted to ranks , thus we get a ranking list ℵm according to the descending order of measure m . Similarly , based on Equation 2 , we can also generate a standard permutation ℵp for each desired property according to the descending order of the functional importance . Then the association between the network metric and the functional importance can be evaluated by the correlation between the two ordering lists ℵm and ℵp .
In statistics , Kendall ’s tau and Spearman ’s rho coefficient are two widely accepted distance metrics for rankings . Let ( x1 , y1 ) , ( x2 , y2 ) , . . . , ( xn , yn ) be a set of joint observations on nodes in V from two ranking lists ℵm and ℵp respectively . Note that all the values of ( xi ) and ( yi ) should be unique . To ensure this , if the values of node i and node j are the same , then their order is decided by their node id . Kendall ’s tau coefficient is defined as :
τ ( ℵm , ℵp ) =
−
( Pxi<xj
|yi < yj| + Pxi>xj
|yi > yj| )
1
2 n(n − 1 )
( Pxi<xj
|yi > yj| + Pxi>xj
|yi < yj| )
1
2 n(n − 1 )
Spearman ’s rho coefficient is defined as :
6 Pi(xi − yi)2 n(n2 − 1 )
ρ(ℵm , ℵp ) = 1 −
( 4 )
3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
We conduct our experiment on a social network the Enron corpus . After preprocessing , this dataset contains 33696 nodes and 180811 edges . Each node represents an Enron email address and each edge represents one email communication .
We first construct 5 permutations for network measures and 1 permutation for connectivity property using the proposed method . Then we compute the pairwise ranking correlation coefficient between each network metric and connectivity importance . The experimental results are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Correlation coefficient between metrics and connectivity importance
Kendall ’s τ
Spearman ’s ρ
( ℵdc , ℵc ) ( ℵcc , ℵc ) ( ℵbc , ℵc ) ( ℵec , ℵc ) ( ℵpr , ℵc )
0.4167 0.7637 0.6897 0.5918 0.1490
0.5351 0.8577 0.7779 0.7505 0.2301
From Table 2 , we observe that , compared to other metrics , closeness centrality is more correlated with connectivity . A potential application of this result could be that , the targeted removal of nodes with the highest scores of closeness may prevent the diffusion of rumor in the network .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
We have investigated the problem of metric selection for a specific requirement on network functions . The connectivity is used as an example of the desired function , and the problem is formalized as a problem of computing ranking coefficient between permutations according to network metric and connectivity . And , the decrease in connectivity upon removal of a node is used to characterize the functional importance of a node . Experimental results show that the metric of closeness performs well for capturing connectivity importance .
Please note that the proposed framework is quite general . It can be applied to the evaluation of many other metrics in terms of their performance on various functional importance .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This research was supported in part by the 111 Project ( B07037 ) , the NSFC Project ( 60873007 , 61070011 ) , Specialized Research Fund for the Doctoral Program of Higher Education , China ( 20090141120050 ) , the NSFC Overseas , HongKong & Macao Scholars Collaborated Researching Fund ( 61028003 ) .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Brin and L . Page . The anatomy of a large scale hypertextual web search engine . In Proc . of the 7th WWW , pages 107–117 , 1998 .
[ 2 ] A . Mislove , M . Marcon , K . P . Gummadi , P . Druschel , and B . Bhattacharjee . Measurement and analysis of online social networks . In Proc . of IMC , pages 29–42 , 2007 .
( 3 )
[ 3 ] M . E . J . Newman . The structure and function of complex networks . SIAM Review , 45:167–256 , 2003 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India110
