Mobile Topigraphy : Large scale Tag Cloud
Visualization for Mobiles
Tatsushi Matsubayashi matsubayashitatsushi@labnttcojp
Katsuhiko Ishiguro ishiguro@cslabkeclnttcojp
Communication Science Laboratories , NTT Corporation
2 4 Hikaridai , Seika cho,Soraku gun , Kyoto , 619 0237 Japan
ABSTRACT We introduce a new mobile topigraphy system that uses the contour map metaphor to display large scale tag clouds . We introduce the technical issues for topigraphy , and recent requirements for and developments in mobile interfaces . We also present some applications for our mobile topigraphy system and describe the assessment on two initial applications .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS ] : Communications Applications—Information browsers
General Terms Design , Experimentation
Keywords tag cloud , Android OS , Wikipedia , graph drawing
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Topigraphy ( “ topic ” + “ topography ” ) [ 1 ] is a method for displaying a large scale tag cloud as a two dimensional contour map . Topigraphy uses a topographic image as the background against which the tag clouds are displayed : tag “ heights ” represent the centrality of the concept , and the two dimensional layout addresses tag similarity . Users may find unexpected but interesting and novel information by exploring or wandering over the topigraphic map ( topigraph ) . Serendipity is the unique point of the topigraphy , since it is missing in query search based web schemes .
The original topigraphy technique was developed for PCbased web browsing . However , the rapid adoption of smartphones is gradually turning them into the primary web interface . In this paper , we propose a topigraphy based mobile application “ Mobile Topigraphy ” for smartphones . To comfortably use topigraphy systems on resource limited mobile phones , we augment the original topigraphy technique in several ways . Two proof of concept applications are introduced : a category ranking system and a quiz system based on Wikipedia articles about people .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , CHyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0632 4/11/03 .
Figure 1 : Topigraph of the people known to Wikipedia
2 . TOPIGRAPHY
Let us describe the original topigraphy technique [ 1 ] on which our proposed mobile technique heavily depends . To construct a topigraph , we need undirected graph G = ( V ; E ) . Each vertex v 2 V is a tag , D(v ) is a set of documents tagged as v . Each edge eij 2 E has its own weight , which corresponds to the similarity of tags vi and vj . Given G , we calculate ( x ; y ) locations of tags based on a graph drawing technique [ 2 ] . Tag “ heights ” z can be defined by some measure of tag importance such as Document Frequency(DF ) .
In our experimental implementation , we generate a topigraph for the people oriented articles in Wikipedia . About one million articles that include human names ( tags ) were collected . We computed the similarity edge weights based on Fisher ’s exact test of the DF and the co occurrence frequency of name tags in the articles . We retain only the top 50K weighted edges , and remove smaller isolated sub graphs if they contain fewer than 10 tags . The result is topological undirected graph data G with 5,908 tags ( names ) and 48,223 edges ( human networks ) . In this implementation , we add the central force and the circularized boundary condition to the labeled graph drawing method [ 2 ] . The tag height , z , represents DF . An example of the resulting “ moon like ” topigraph of the human network is shown in Figure 1 1 .
3 . MOBILE TOPIGRAPHY
Our goal is to develop a topigraphy system for smartphones , called “ Mobile Topigraphy ” . However , mobile based
1A high resolution picture is available at : http://wwwkeclnttcojp/as/WWW2011/
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India89 +
The user is led to the correct tag by the distance based accuracy index and the navigator arrow .
Figure 3 : The navigation flow . the total number of human tags , Cj is the number of the human articles that include the i th category , and Dj is the number of human articles appearing within the screen .
The “ Who ’s here ? ” application allows us to know the rel ative status of one human against the neighboring people . 4.2 Who ’s this ? : guessing the tag
“ Who ’s this ? ” is a quiz system that asks us to guess a human from the category profile . As a query , the system randomly chooses a human article that has more than five category entries . A user can set the difficulty of the quiz by selecting one of three grades : “ easy ” , “ normal ” , and “ hard ” based on the DF of the human articles . When the user starts this application , a question is presented as the category information of the answer name(tag ) as in Figure 2(d ) . The user is provided with two hints . First , the user can consult possible candidates for each tag entry ( Figure 2(e) ) . Second , the initials of the correct name are shown as in Figure 2(f ) . If the user choses an incorrect human tag , the accuracy of the selected tag is scored using three grades of “ Far ” , “ Close ” , and “ Very close ” . In addition to the distance based index , we added direction navigation with eight directions , “ ! " # % & . ” as shown in Figure 3 . These serve as “ geographic ” hints that indicate the direction of the correct tag in the topigraph .
“ Who ’s this ? ” is a novel quiz system . The users search for the right answer by actually exploring a topigraph . The users may encounter unexpected but interesting information and articles during the quiz , which is difficult to achieve with query based search systems .
5 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we proposed a topigraphy based mobile application “ Mobile Topigraphy ” for smartphones . The system is based on the topigraphy technique [ 1 ] . We augment the topigraphy to make it suitable for smartphone platforms . In addition , we have implemented and described two novel applications .
We are now interested in identifying new features that can improve the user experience of mobile topigraphy systems . We are also eager to examine the quantitative and qualitative effects of topigraphy .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] K . Fujimura , S . Fujimura , T . Matsubayashi ,
T . Yamada , and H . Okuda . Topigraphy : visualization for large scale tag clouds . In Proceeding of the 17th international conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’08 , pages 1087–1088 , New York , NY , USA , 2008 . ACM .
[ 2 ] T . Matsubayashi , T . Yamada , S . Fujimura , and
K . Fujimura . Individual ellipsoidal potential method for labeled graph drawing . to appear in Visualization and Computer Graphics , in preparation .
( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
( e )
( f )
Figure 2 : Screen shots of Mobile Topigraphy . topigraphy has different technical requirements from PCbased topigraphy . For comfortable use in smartphones , Mobile Topigraphy augments the original technique in the following ways .
1 . Scalable maps for tiny screens
Smartphones have much lower resolution displays than PCs . Therefore , it is difficult to draw a complete whole topigraph at once at a sufficiently usable size . Thus it is reasonable to implement scalable maps , which allow the user to freely zoom in on and out of the map . In addition , we provide a overview minimap to make it easier to jump and fly over the topigraph as in Figure 2(a ) and ( b ) .
2 . Scrollable maps for touch screen navigations Most smartphones are equipped with touch screens . To utilize intuitive operations by touch screens , we have developed a scrollable map feature . This enables the user to intuitively explore or wander around in the topigraph by using the touch screen to indicate the desired direction . One demerit of smartphones is the difficulty of inputting words . However , topigraphy navigation needs only a single finger , of course , voice retrieval is also available .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL APPLICATIONS
We developed two experimental applications for the mo bile topigraphy system . 4.1 Who ’s here ? : ranking the category
“ Who ’s here ? ” shows a human category list where each category entry is ranked among all human articles within the current screen . A screen shot is shown in Figure 2(c ) . The system computes points for each human name ( tag ) for ranking based on the tf idf method . The ranking of the i th category is computed as Pi = Dj . log(N=Ci ) , where N is
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India90
