Personalized Search on Flickr based on Searcher ’s
Preference Prediction
Dongyuan Lu , Qiudan Li
Institute of Automation , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100190 , China
{dongyuan.lu , qiudanli}@iaaccn
ABSTRACT In this paper , we propose a personalized search model to assist users in obtaining interested photos on Flickr , which exploits the favorite marks of the searcher ’s friends to predict the searcher ’s preference on the returned photos . The proposed model utilizes a co clustering method to extract latent interest dimensions from users’ implicit interests , and employs a discriminative learning method to predict searcher ’s preference on returned photos . Preliminary experiments demonstrate the improvement of the proposed model compared to existing one fit all methods and a user based collaborative filtering method . the
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information storage and retrieval ] : Information search and retrieval General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation . Keywords : Personalized search , Preference prediction , Latent interest dimension , Discriminative learning . 1 . INTRODUCTION Flickr.com , as one of the most popular photo sharing and socialnetworking websites , has been hosting over 5 billion photos since September 2010 [ 1 ] . When searching photos by submitting a query , a user may receive hundreds or thousands of returned results , eg , 118,147 photos are returned by searching with “ Great Wall ” . Obviously , users need a tool to assist them in getting access to interested photos more easily . Personalized search serves as such a tool which rearranges the returned results based on the preference of the searcher . Flickr encourages users to perform various activities such as sharing photos with tags , joining in interested groups , contacting other users with similar interest as friends , as well as expressing their preference on photos by adding favorite marks . These social activities offer valuable information for solving personalized search problem . Existing studies have focused on building associations between the searcher and photos by performing tag analysis [ 2 , 3 ] . These approaches are beneficial when sufficient tags are available . However , there are still plenty of photos with deficient tags . This paper thus offers a new perspective , which explores the favorite marks of the searcher ’s friends to predict searcher ’s preference on returned photos for personalized search . Typically , users are interested in more than one field , and the searcher may share different interests with different friends . The variety of users’ implicit interests can be mined and encoded into the latent interest dimensions . Friends may contribute differently to searcher ’s preference prediction according to the submitted query
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 and the interest distribution . For example , a friend distributed consistently with the searcher on the latent dimensions related to Travel and Landscape will contribute much to a query like ‘Great Wall’ . Therefore , determining the relevant dimensions for a specific query is essential to accurately predict the searcher ’s preference on returned photos . The proposed model utilizes a co clustering method to extract latent interest dimensions from users’ implicit interests , and employs a discriminative learning method to predict the searcher ’s preference on photos , which can automatically select query dependent interest dimensions for prediction . In the following of this paper , the details of this model will be illustrated , along with the experimental results . query
Flickr photos r e t u r n e d p h o t o s
R e a r r a n g e d r e s u l t s
( c )
Preference prediction
( a )
User interest profile construction tag user group
Searcher ’s friend network
Interest profile Latent interest dimension extraction
( b )
Friends’ favorite marks
Fig 1 . The framework of the personalized search model
Latent interest dimension
2 . METHOD The framework of the proposed model is shown in Fig 1 . The personalized search model firstly constructs users’ interest profiles to represent their implicit interests . And then the latent interest dimensions are extracted to obtain users’ interest distributions . Finally , it rearranges the returned photos for the searcher by predicting his preference on these photos . User Interest Profile Construction Uploading photos with attached tags and joining in interested groups are two main manners for users to share personal photos , which reflect their implicit interests . Both tag and group are thus used to construct a user ’s interest profile . We refer to U={u1 , u2,… , uM} as the set of users including the searcher and his friends , and T as the bag of tags utilized by the users , and G as the bag of groups the users join in . As illustrated in Fig 1 ( a ) , the relations of user tag and user group construct two correlated bipartite graphs , denoted as G ( U , T , G , WUT , WUG ) , where WUT denotes the edge weights between U and T , and WUG denotes the edge weights between U and G . The simple yet widely used tf idf is employed to set the edge weights . Therefore , a user ’s interest profile is simultaneously represented by a weighted tag vector and a weighted group vector . Latent Interest Dimension Extraction With users’ interest profiles represented as two correlated bipartite graphs , a soft clustering method is performed to extract the latent interest dimensions . We utilize the clustering method proposed in [ 4 ] , which aims to co
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India81 cluster high order correlated bipartite graphs based on spectral graph partitioning ( as illustrated in Fig 1 ( b) ) . The basic idea of spectral graph partitioning focuses on minimizing a cost function . In this study , we adopt Ncut which simultaneously minimizes the between cluster similarities and maximizes the within cluster similarities . By introducing a parameter λ to balance the costs on both graphs , the co clustering task can be turned into the optimization problem of minimizing the following generalized cost function :
Cost
 h
 Ncut S
1 
  i T and Si
U i
,
S
T i

 1  
  h
 i
1 
 Ncut S
U i
,
S
G i

( 1 )
U , Si
G denote the i th partition in U , T and G , where Si respectively . And h is the desired cluster number , ie , the size of latent interest dimension . The optimal cluster partitions can be achieved by solving a constrained quadratic programming problem [ 4 ] . Consequently , each user is represented in terms of a hdimension latent interest feature vector . Preference Prediction Suppose there are R returned photos after the searcher submitting a query . Given users’ latent interest features and their favorite marks on these photos , let N=(U , F , Y ) denote the prediction problem . U is the user set and F={f1 , f2 , … , fM} is the corresponding user interest feature set . Y={y1 , y2 , … , yM} denotes the favorite mark set , where yi∈{0 , 1}R is a R dimension indication vector representing user i ’s preference status on the R returned j=0 otherwise . photos , and yi Given known values of yi for the searcher ’s friends , we formulate the preference prediction task as an ordinal regression problem . Instead of pursuing absolute preference value for each photo , what we care is the predicted relative preference relationship . From this perspective , we adopt Rank SVM [ 5 ] to rearrange the returned photos for the searcher based on the estimated score of each returned photo . j=1 represents user i favoring photo j , yi
3 . EXPERIMENTS 3.1 Dataset and Parameter Settings To evaluate the performance of the proposed model , a dataset was collected using Flickr API . We manually selected three popular subjects [ 6 ] that concern Nature , Travel and Landscape and chose 18 popular tags as queries . Through finding the overlapping users in groups concerning these subjects , 402 users were collected as searchers . For each searcher , the contacted users were crawled as his friends . The assigned tags , the interested groups users join in and the favorite marks of all the users were crawled . The dataset finally consists of 81,288 users with 0.9 million unique tags , 230,900 distinct groups and 112.5 million favorite marks . The parameter λ in interest dimension extraction was empirically set to be 0.5 to evenly weight the tag and group components . We also tuned the parameter h that denotes the interest dimension size from 5 to 20 with a step of 5 , and found the best performance at h=10 . Therefore , the parameter h was empirically set to be 10 in our experiments . 3.2 Results and Discussions The information retrieval metric NDCG@k ( Normalized Discount Cumulative Gain of top k results ) was utilized to evaluate the performance . Following the evaluation framework in [ 7 ] , any photo historically favored by the searcher was considered relevant for personalization . For each query , we rearranged the top 50
G C D N
0.3
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0 proposed approach user based view number based relevance based time based
NDCG@1
Fig 2 . Evaluation results of comparing five search methods
NDCG@5
NDCG@11 non personalized Flickr results sorted by the option Interesting for each searcher , and averaged the evaluated scores over queries and searchers . To demonstrate the validity of the proposed model , four additional search methods were conducted as baselines . Three of them are one fit all retrieval methods depending on relevance , view number and timeliness , respectively . The other one is the user based collaborative filtering [ 8 ] . We utilized Euclidean distance to measure the similarities between the searcher and his friends , and used the similarities as weights to sum the friends’ favorite marks as searcher ’s preferences . Fig 2 demonstrates the evaluation results , from which we can see the two personalization methods outperform the three one fit all retrieval methods . It reveals the validity of inferring the searcher ’s preference from his friends’ favorite marks by mining users’ latent interest dimensions . Moreover , our approach achieves better personalization performance than the user based collaborative filtering . It may be due to the leverage of discriminative learning that automatically selects the relevant interest dimensions for inference . 4 . CONCLUSION In this paper , we propose a personalized search model to assist users in getting access to their interested photos by predicting the searcher ’s preference on returned photos . Preliminary experiments have proved the validity of the proposed model . In the future , we would like to further improve the efficiency of the proposed mechanism . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This 2006AA010106 ) , 973 60703085 ) . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Lerman , K . , Plangprasopchok , A . and Wong , C . , 2008 . Personalizing image search results on Flickr . In AAAI workshop on Information Integration’08 . the projects 863 ( No . 2007CB311007 ) , NSFC http://blogflickrnet/en/2010/09/19/5000000000/ supported by
( No . ( No . research
[ 3 ] Bender , M . , Crecelius , T . , Kacimi , M . and Michel , S . 2008 . Exploiting is social relations for query expansion and result ranking . In ICDE workshop’08 , pp 501 506 .
[ 4 ] Zhou , D . , Councill , Isaac . , Zha , H . and Lee Giles , C . 2007 . Discovering temporal communities from social network documents . In ICDM’07 , pp745750 .
[ 5 ] Elisseeff , A . , Weston , J . 2002 . A kernel method for multi labelled classification . In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 14 , Cambridge , MA : MIT Press , pp 681 687 . http://wwwflickrcom/photos/tags/
[ 6 ] [ 7 ] Xu , S . , Bao , S . , Fei , B . , Su , Z . and Yu , Y . 2008 . Exploring folksonomy for personalized search . In SIGIR’08 , pp 155 162 .
[ 8 ] Sarwar , B . , Karypis , G . , Konstan , J . and Riedl , J . 2000 . Analysis of recommendation algorithms for e commerce . In EC’00 , pp285 295 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India82
