Mining Collective Local Knowledge from Google MyMaps
Shaomei Wufi , Shenwei Liu , Dan Cosley
Department of Information Science
Cornell University
{sw475,sl2277,drc44}@cornell.edu
Michael W . Macy
Department of Sociology
Cornell University mwm14@cornell.edu
ABSTRACT The emerging popularity of location aware devices and locationbased services has generated a growing archive of digital traces of people ’s activities and opinions in physical space . In this study , we leverage geo referenced user generated content from Google MyMaps to discover collective local knowledge and understand the differing perceptions of urban space . Working with the large collection of annotation rich , publicly available MyMaps data , we propose a highly parallelizable approach in order to merge identical places , discover landmarks , and recommend places . Additionally , we conduct interviews with New York City residents/visitors to validate the quantitative findings .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H2.8 [ Database Management ] : Database ApplicationsData Mining ; H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Algorithms , Human Factors
Keywords Geo tagged data , user generated content , place recommendation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the growing popularity of location based services such as Foursquare and Google Latitude , the increasing amount of user generated geo referenced data provides us a way to access knowledge about the physical environment that would otherwise be limited to locals . While most existing work focuses on data classification and visualization ( eg [ 1 , 2 , 3] ) , the characteristics of places and the people who interact with the places are often overlooked . In this paper , we propose to mine community specific insights about the urban space from the publicly available Google MyMaps data .
Google MyMaps is a Web service that enables Google users to create personalized annotated maps . This dataset features three unique properties : First , the annotation of fi
Wu is supported by NSF grants IIS 0910664 and 08 35451 .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . places in Google MyMaps is centralized around the physical space per se , whereas in other services ( eg , Flickr ) , geotags are largely a collateral attribute of the data . Second , in addition to commercial/popular places that most consumer review sites usually cover , MyMaps also contains more heterogeneous content including many personally meaningful places . Third , as every MyMap is a manually curated collection of places that people put together because of underlying association or specific purpose , the co occurrence of places in maps potentially offers rich insights into the connections among them .
We make two main contributions . First , we use MyMaps data to show that locals’ perception of important places is quite different from the kinds of globally identified landmarks found in [ 2 ] : locals tend to identify cultural sites such as restaurants more frequently than non locals , who tend to map tourist landmarks . We then show that how these data might be useful in a taste sensitive recommender system that uses these local insights and latent connections from the maps people create online .
2 . METHODS AND RESULTS
The first step when working with user generated geographical data is to consolidate duplicated annotations of a single place . As reported in [ 2 ] , textual information is crucial in identifying multiple representations of the same place . With this in mind , we developed an adaptive heuristic method that duplicates placemarks by merging nearby placemarks with similar names . By tuning the size of a nearby area and the threshold for the similarity between place names , our method outperforms previous approaches [ 1 , 2 ] in two aspects : ( 1 ) it is a parallelizable and efficient algorithm ; ( 2 ) it is fuzzy enough to recognize similar annotations of the same place ( eg , “ Apple Store 5th ave ” and “ Apple Store ” ) while differentiating geographically clustered places ( eg , “ Apple Store 5th ave ” and “ FAO Schwarz ” ) with high resolution . 2.1 Discovering Landmarks
Similar to [ 2 ] ’s use of photo density in space to identify landmarks , we use frequency of annotation as a signal of a location ’s salience . Table 1 shows the seven most salient places in New York City from our data and from [ 2 ] . Although there is significant overlap , three of the seven most salient places found in the MyMaps dataset are museums , whereas none of the most geo tagged places in the Flickr dataset are museums . This result suggests the distinctive nature of places highlighted in these two datasets : Flickr is biased towards places that lend themselves to photography ,
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India151 Table 1 : Top Landmarks of New York City
Flickr ( Crandall et . al 2009 ) empirestatebuilding
MyMap
1 metropolitan museum of art 2 3 museum of modern art 4 5 6 world trade center 7 solomon r guggenheim museum timesquare rockefeller grandcentralstation applestore columbuscircle libertyisland grand central station times square empire state building
Table 2 : NYC Landmarks : Local vs . Non Local
Local chelsea market momofuku noodle bar spotted pig magnolia bakery metropolitan museum of art freemans museum of modern art katz ’s delicatessen inc corner Bistro dinosaur barbecue
Non local empire state building museum of modern art metropolitan museum of art solomon r guggenheim museum apple store fifth avenue times square american museum of natural history grand central terminal katz ’s delicatessen inc century 21 department stores especially photography using an iPhone , whereas MyMaps accommodates landmarks where photography is prohibited . We then analyze how people from different groups pay attention to different parts of the city . We classify a user as “ local ” when his profile ’s self reported location matches the city ( “ NYC ” , “ New York city ” ) , a borough , or a neighborhood name . Other users with location information are “ nonlocal ” . About 20 % of MyMaps creators had profile locations , 925 local and 1611 non local . Table 2 shows that the top 10 landmarks for each group are quite different , with only two places in common ( Museum of Modern Art and Katz ’s Delicatessen Inc ) . Local users mapped places related to daily life ( restaurants , cafes , bars ) , while non locals focused on tourist attractions and stores , suggesting different perspectives on the city : for local people it is the home where they live and socialize ; for non locals it is a metropolitan area to explore and consume .
These findings are supported by interview data . When asked about their favorite places , four NYC locals and longtime residents mentioned newly blooming neighborhoods such as Chelsea and Williamsburg , while none of our non local informants were familiar with these areas . Some locals also expressed the tendency to avoid areas popular with tourists , as “ the sidewalks are so full , you basically can’t walk there! ” 2.2 Recommending Related Places
Based on the success of recommender systems in helping people find books , movies , and music to explore , we believe that a personalized recommender system equipped with collective local knowledge could be compelling . We apply collaborative filtering [ 4 ] to recommend places with similar characteristics based on the probability of them appearing in the same map . In our algorithm , the pairwise similarity between places is measured by the cosine correlation coefficient of their occurrences in all the maps . After a user picks a place he likes , our algorithm recommends the 10 places with the highest similarity scores .
Table 3 shows the recommendations given for Katz ’s Del
Table 3 : Recommendations Related to Katz ’s Delicatessen
Rank Our method spotted pig
1 2 momofuku noodle bar 3 carnegie hall 4 russ & daughters 5 lombardi ’s pizza 6 magnolia bakery 7 museum of modern art clinton street baking co 8 shake shack 9 10 chelsea market
Google Carnegie Deli Noah ’s Ark Original Deli Lombardi ’s Pizza Sarges Deli & Restaurant Italian Food Center Bon Vivant Diner 2nd Ave Deli Stage Deli & Restaurant Inc Russ & Daughters Lahore Deli icatessen by our algorithm and Google Maps’ “ nearby places you might like ” 1 . Our results are more diverse : while most existing place recommender systems ( eg Yelp , Google Maps ) usually classify places into pre fixed categories and make recommendations within a category , our system discovers latent connections and may better serve a user ’s need to explore . NYC local interviewees were impressed by our results and confirmed the informal but strong connections among the places our system recommends . For example , as they pointed out , places like Katz ’s Delicatessen , corner bistro and shake shack are “ cheap ” , “ bold ” , and “ extremely satisfying ” — “ they are the true New York experience! ”
3 . CONCLUSION
This paper presents our exploration of mining collective knowledge about places from user generated , geo referenced data at scale . Aiming at understanding the heterogeneous meaning of the physical space , we present the difference in the salience of places across communities ( local/non local ) and develop a personalized place recommendation system that captures the taste related latent qualities of places . We plan to extend our notion of social groups to spatial ( particular neighborhoods ) and socioeconomic ( occupation and income ) differences . Another interesting future direction is to bridge the online/offline space and predict possible social ties from the geo reference dataset based on the hypothesis that “ birds of a feather map together ” .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Ahern , M . Naaman , R . Nair , and J . Yang . World explorer : Visualizing aggregate data from unstructured text in geo referenced collections . In JCDL 2007 .
[ 2 ] D . J . Crandall , L . Backstrom , D . Huttenlocher , and J . Kleinberg . Mapping the world ’s photos . In WWW 2009 .
[ 3 ] T . Rattenbury , N . Good , and M . Naaman . Towards automatic extraction of event and place semantics from flickr tags . In SIGIR 2007 .
[ 4 ] B . Sarwar , G . Karypis , J . Konstan , and J . Reidl .
Item based collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms . In WWW 2001 .
1The “ nearby places you might like ” section appears when a user clicks on “ more info ” link in the search result in Google Maps .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India152
