Performance Enhancement of Scheduling Algorithms in
Clusters and Grids using Improved Dynamic Load
Balancing Techniques
Hemant Kumar Mehta
School of Computer Science , Devi
Ahilya University , Indore , India
Priyesh Kanungo
Patel Group of Institutions , Ralamandal , Indore , India
Manohar Chandwani Institute of Engineering and
Technology
+919425077901
+919406623744
Devi Ahilya University , Indore , India mehtahk@yahoo.com priyeshkanungo@hotmail.com
+919303227853 chandwanim1@rediffmail.com
ABSTRACT This paper describes the research work done for during PhD study . Cluster computing , grid computing and cloud computing are distributed computing environments ( DCEs ) widely accepted for the next generation Web based commercial and scientific applications . These applications work around the globally distributed data of petabyte scale that can only be processed by the aggregating the capability of globally distributed resources . The resource management and process scheduling in large scale distributed computing environment are a challenging task . In this research work we have devised new scheduling algorithms and resource management strategies specially designed for the cluster and grid cloud and peer to peer computing . The research work finally presented the distributed computing solutions to one scientific and one commercial application viz . e Learning and data mining .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C24 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : Distributed Systems –Distributed applications . General Terms Algorithms , Design , Economics , Experimentation , Management , Performance Keywords Cluster , cloud , grid , resource management , grid service , trust management
1 . INTRODUCTION The popular web applications have observed explosive growth in terms of number of requests from different users . Now a days , various kinds of commercial and scientific applications are implemented as a web based application or a web service application . Web services develop to be accessed from the various web applications etc . These different levels generate load on the websites at different levels from lower to higher respectively . Web services are web applications that use the hyper text transfer protocol ( HTTP ) for communication , similar to the web sites . These applications belong to the area of particle physics , life science , geo science , telecommunications , chemical & material
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others .
WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India .
ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . science , financial applications , manufacturing , entertainment , media and gaming . Such applications either generate large amounts of data that entail extensive computations like data mining applications or they are computation extensive problems like life science applications . To meet the processing needs of such applications , various types of distributed systems have been evolved over a period of time . In the beginning , super computers were used by such applications . The set up and maintenance of the super computers are very costly . Cluster computing ( Cluster ) is a cost effective and fail safe alternative to the super computers . Cluster is used if the processing has to be done within the same organization itself . Grid computing ( Grid ) shares the capability of resources in geographically distributed cluster of various organizations to form a single logical virtual organization ( VO ) . The participation of organization in Grid is based on mutual collaboration , revenue or donation basis . Grid and Clusters can be used for market oriented computing as well as service oriented computing . In market oriented computing , consumers have to pay to the resource providers for the resources and services being used . Service oriented computing focuses on providing business processes in the form of Web services . The concepts of Grid , market oriented computing and service oriented computing evolved further and they are combined together to develop Cloud computing . Cloud computing ( Cloud ) is a collection of dynamically scalable and virtualized resources , which are provided as a service over the Internet . These services can be Software as a Service ( SaaS ) , Platform as a Service ( PaaS ) and Infrastructure as a Service ( IaaS ) .
2 . PROBLEM ADDRESSED This PhD research work has been done with the following specific objectives : 1 . To implement the load balancing policies being used in Cluster to Grid . These policies have been initially developed for Cluster and needs some modifications so that they can be effectively used in Grid .
2 . To develop a distributed version of the delay strategy proposed by Hui and Chanson that can work in multi domain environments including Cluster and Grid . Hui and Chanson have proposed dynamic load balancing strategy that delays the execution of newly arrived jobs when the system is under full utilization . This will time perceived by both the newly arrived and currently running processes [ 9 ] . the response improve
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India385 3 . To modify existing load balancing policies used in cluster environment to incorporate content awareness . It is also planned to implement content aware load balancing policies in a Grid environment . files are served by any server in the cluster while the remaining files are called as part files and partitioned between different servers in a manner such that each partition is served by different server in cluster [ 5 ] .
4 . Analysis of the existing dynamic content caching schemes to find their limits . This research also proposed to use dynamic content handling techniques for performance enhancement in Cluster and Grid .
5 . To develop the data access and integration services that utilizes the grid infrastructure for database management applications . These services may be integrated with the existing grid environments .
6 . To resolve the issues in Grid such as scalability , connectivity and resource discovery it is planned to utilize the similarities between P2P and grid so that P2P protocols and models can be exploited .
The first three objectives are based on the policy making for distributed scheduling , the fourth objective takes care of dynamic data caching and the fifth & sixth objectives are meant for developing a web service/ grid service based policy for data integration and resource registration .
3 . STATE OF THE ART Extensive literature review has been carried out in the area of scheduling algorithms and resource management in Cluster and Grid . The literature contains of large body of research work however , the discussion is limited to the selected topics discussed in the subsequent paragraphs :
Grid Scheduling : Broberg et al . have given detailed survey of economy based grid scheduling algorithm [ 1 ] . Major emphasis of these surveys is economy based grid scheduling environment . Recently , several works have been reported in this area . Xiao et al . have proposed an incentive based scheduling algorithm for market based grid computing environment . This is a decentralized algorithm that uses a peer to peer ( P2P ) scheduling framework . They have developed the algorithm with dual objective for providing sufficient incentives to both the players ( resource provider and consumers ) in the market [ 26 ] .
DELAY Strategy : The scheduling algorithms immediately dispatch the jobs upon their arrival . However , if a batch with large number of jobs is arrive in the full load condition both the existing and newly arrived processes suffer from poor response time . However , if the execution of newly arrived job is delayed until one of the currently running processes terminates , overall performance of the system will improve [ 9 ] . As per the literature survey , the DELAY strategy proposed by Hui and Chanson is not updated by any other researcher except the work reported by Zhang and Lu [ 27 ] .
Content Aware Load Balancing : Another criterion for choosing a node is based on some special property of the consumer ’s processes or node called content aware scheduling . Casalicchio and Colajanni propose a new scheduling policy called ClientAware Policy ( CAP ) . CAP classifies the client requests on the basis of their expected impact on main server components [ 2 ] . Cherkasova and Karlsson have developed a Workload Aware Request Distribution Strategy ( WARD ) for clustered web servers . This strategy considers the workload properties and determines a set of most frequently used files and called them as core . These the processes
Trust Management in Resource Management Algorithms : The large scale distributed computing environment involves a large number of resource providers and resource consumers . To properly distribute and execute in such environments a lot of interaction is required . There is a requirement of some mechanism of building trust between these participants . Etalle et al . suggest that trust management policy must handle the issues related to the regret management and its accountability . They argued that opportunity must be given to a resource provider reputation . Regret management will give the opportunity for rebuilding the lost reputation [ 7 ] . lost to rebuild the
Dynamic Content Handling Techniques : There exists a large body of research work on various caching techniques . However , the focus of this literature survey is database caching . Memcached is among the most popular object caching tool . This tool uses large hash tables for caching of the objects . Oracle ’s Times Ten In Memory database is also another popular product providing faster access the same programming interface . the relational databases using to
Data Access and Integration from Disparate Sources : Literature in the field of data access and integration services contains some recent research projects including OGSA DAI , SDO , Oracle Data Service Integrator and Microsoft SQL Azure Database Service . Comito et al . proposed a service based data integration architecture called Grid Data Integration System ( GDIS ) [ 6 ] . Gallo et al . have presented architecture for data access and integration specially designed for epidemic monitoring and simulation system based on grid integration services . It follows mediator based architecture as it is suitable for epidemic system [ 8 ] .
Resource Discovery under Peer to Peer , Grid and Cloud : In various types of DCE , resources are diverse in nature eg special software , storage or network device , a specific processor , or some scientific instrument . Naseer and Stergioulas have classified these resources in two categories namely physical and logical . The physical resources are the basic hardware that creates the infrastructure . The logical resources are data set , knowledge and application resources [ 24 ] . Monitoring and Discovery System ( MDS4 ) bundled with Globus toolkit is also a popular service .
4 . APPROACH FOLLOWED This research work makes several contributions towards the performance enhancement of the scheduling algorithms and resource management techniques used in various categories of DCEs .
1 . Developed an economy based Grid scheduling algorithm named as maximum utility ( MU ) algorithm . This algorithm maximizes the utility for both the resource providers and the consumers . The maximum utility for the resource provider indicates the higher profit and for the resource consumers , the maximum utility indicates successful execution of users processes with the lower cost of execution . The algorithm uses the market based parameters to determine the utility value for both the resource consumers and the resource
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India386 providers [ 16 ] . The incentive chosen by Xiao et al . are successful execution of the consumers’ processes and the fairness in the market for resource providers . However , the proposed method uses the cost of execution of consumers’ process and profit of providers’ resources .
2 . Modified the DELAY strategy proposed by Hui and Chanson and developed mDelay algorithm . If the distributed system is under the full load situation , the scheduling of new jobs is delayed instead of dispatching them to one of the overloaded workstations . The proposed mDelay algorithm produces better batch completion time and improved load balancing at workstations [ 13 ] . Hui and Chenson have taken six parameters to measure throughput and fairness of the algorithm . Instead of taking all these parameters for the comparison we have considered only two parameters to represents the fairness and throughput of the scheduling algorithms . The parameters are batch completion time and the workstation processing completion time .
4 . Proposed and
3 . Developed a new decentralized content aware load balancing strategy called workload and client aware policy ( WCAP ) . The content aware load balancing strategies use the services or content requested for the allotment of a process to a node . To incorporate content awareness existing load balancing policies used in DCEs have been modified [ 14 ] , [ 20 ] . This policy reduces the search span in resource matching process . trust management and reliability policy for distributed scheduling algorithm used in the collaborative computing environment . Trust management is achieved with the concept of bidirectional reputation points that are assigned to resource providers and resource consumers . Moreover , concept of reliability is also used to ensure failsafe execution of the processes . This policy also uses the activeness , ratio of positive to negative reputation points obtained by participants and recently earned reputation points along the reputation points [ 18 ] . implemented a
5 . Designed and developed a Distributed Hash Based Database Caching ( DHBDC ) technique for web services and multitier web application deployed over DCEs . This database caching is implemented with centralized cache control for better performance . It uses larger distributed hash tables stored in the memory of the servers in cache cluster [ 23 ] , [ 11 ] .
6 . Developed a web service based API for data access and integration called Grid Data Access and Integration Service ( GDAIS ) . This service provides facility to access and manipulate data from various data stores . The API is simple , generic in terms of databases as well as the implementation architecture . It provides simple interface with less resource consumption for the users of data stores [ 17 ] .
7 . Developed the web service based approach for resource registration and discovery ( RRD ) in distributed computing environment . The service can be used in cluster computing , P2P computing , grid computing and cloud computing environment . This web service also provides facility to discover the suitable resources , matching it with the processes and booking of the most appropriate resource . The proposed service is a two level decentralized and hierarchical method to avoid single point failure and better performance [ 21 ] .
8 . Presented the distributed computing solutions to one scientific and one commercial application viz . e Learning and data mining [ 19 ] . Suggested appropriate architectural solutions to e Learning applications of various
[ 15 ] , size based on data size and number of users . Also proposed the concept of Knowledge Discovery from Data as a Service ( KDDaaS ) to develop Knowledge Cloud .
5 . METHODOLOGY To test the proposed algorithm a custom simulation environment is developed called EcoGrid [ 12 ] , [ 22 ] . Globus Toolkit is also used to develop grid services . The development and evaluation of scheduling algorithms and strategies are performed on these two tools . Globus Toolkit is a set of tools and protocols that enables users to create real Grid . Globus contains five categories of components viz . common runtime , security , data management , information services and execution management . The common runtime component provides the libraries needed to build the services . The communication among various computing elements is secured by the security component . The data management component facilitates management of huge data set in VO . The information service is responsible for monitoring and discovery of the resources in VO . The execution management deals with the various activities related to job ’s execution eg initialization , monitoring , scheduling etc .
The scheduling algorithms developed for Grid viz . modified delay strategy and content aware load balancing needed a specific test bed . Several test beds like GridSim [ 25 ] and SimGrid [ 3 ] are already available but these simulation environments do not support some necessary features . To satisfy the specific needs EcoGrid is developed as a test bed for grid scheduling algorithms based on dynamic load balancing . EcoGrid is dynamically configurable and optimizes the cost of execution of a process and maximizes the profit of a service provider system . As compared to other commonly used grid simulation tools like GridSim and SimGrid , EcoGrid provides more enhanced like configurability , scalability and extensibility . This object oriented simulator also supports execution of Java applications as well as simulation of both the economy based and non economy based scheduling algorithms . The proposed algorithms were evaluated with the other state of the art algorithms proposed in the literature using EcoGrid . The comparisons indicate a great deal of improvements . EcoGrid represents the resources in the form of objects rather than the threads , resulting in the low memory use and high scalability as observed from Figure 1 . features
The proposed strategies are tested on synthetic and real workloads . Synthetic workload is generated using appropriate statistical distribution . The values for each of the parameters are generated using the most appropriate statistical distribution for that parameter . For example , since the process arrival time follows Poisson distribution , the arrival time is generated using Poisson distribution . The real workload traces are taken from two sources . The first source is Grid Workload Archive ( GWA ) . Iosup et al . created a standard Grid Workload Format ( GWF ) [ 10 ] that is followed by the logs in GWA .
The second source of real workload trace is the parallel workload archive maintained by Feitelson . These workload traces are collected from various large scale parallel systems from various places around the world . The traces are already converted in Standard Workload Format ( SWF ) to follow a uniform formatting [ 4 ] . The GWF and SWF contain several fields namely , job id , submit time , Waiting Time , execution time , number of allocated processors , amount of used memory , requested number of processors , requested time , requested memory , status , user id ,
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India387 group id , queue number , originating site id , last run site id , structures containing the preceding job id and the think time between preceding and current job , used network bandwidth , used local disk , used resource , requested platform ( CPU , OS and Version ) , project id , VO id etc . However , few attributed were synthetically added to the workload traces as they do not posses several attributes needed in economy based scheduling . The open source software were preferred for implementations related to this research as they are available quite easily and have wide user base .
6 . RESULTS This section presents main results of our PhD research work , for brevity other results are skipped can be found in our papers . According to the requirement of the algorithms , for each of the experiments a different experimental setup is created . EcoGrid provide enhanced features and improves performance obtained from the existing well established simulators like the GridSim and the SimGrid . EcoGrid performs better in terms of memory usage , number of processes , number of resources and the runtime performance as compared to GridSim that can be concluded from Figure 1 and Figure 2 .
Similarly the mDelay strategy , developed by modifying DELAY strategy proposed by Hui and Chanson [ 9 ] , produces better results than DELAY strategy . The results are given in Figure 3 and Figure 4 . This experiment is performed to test algorithm on a testbed having of hundred workstations . The size of normal batches is eighty and the size of delayed batches is three hundred . Six different types of processors are considered .
B M n i d e s U y r o m e M s d n o c e S n i i e m T n o i t u c e x E
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
GridSim
EcoGrid
*1
#2
2 5 0
5 0 0
7 5 0
1 0 0 0
1 2 5 0
1 5 0 0
1 7 5 0
2 0 0 0
2 2 5 0
2 5 0 0
2 7 5 0
4 0 0 0
8 0 0 0
1 6 0 0 0
2 0 0 0 0
2 7 5 0 0
3 0 0 0 0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10 12 20 40 80 100 100 125
Number of Nodes ( *1 ) and Number of Processes
( in Thousands ) ( #2 )
Figure 1 . Memory Usage of EcoGrid and the GridSim
0 5 2
0 0 5
0 5 7
0 0 0 1
0 5 2 1
0 0 5 1
0 5 7 1
0 0 0 2
0 5 2 2
0 0 5 2
0 5 7 2
0 0 0 4
0 0 0 8
0 0 0 6 1
0 0 0 0 2
0 0 5 7 2
0 0 0 0 3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 12 20 40 80 100 100 125
Number of Nodes ( *1 ) and Number of Processes ( in
Thousands ) ( #2 )
GridSim
EcoGrid
*1
#2
Figure 2 . Execution Time of EcoGrid and the GridSim a f o p m a t S i e m T n o i t a n m i r r e T n o i t a t s k r o W
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
Round Robin Average : 938
DELAY Average : 592
1
6 1
1 3
6 4
1 6
6 7
1 9
6 0 1
1 2 1
6 3 1
1 5 1
6 6 1
1 8 1
6 9 1
Experiments with the Hundred Workstations
Figure 3 . Average Completion times of Processes of all Workstations using Distributed Round Robin , DELAY and mDelay h c t a B a f o p m a t S e m T n o i t a n m r e T i i
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
Round Robin Average : 6825
DELAY Average : 1784 mDELAY Average : 1628
1
6 1
1 3
6 4
1 6
6 7
1 9
6 0 1
1 2 1
6 3 1
1 5 1
6 6 1
1 8 1
6 9 1
Experiments with the Hundred Workstations
Figure 4 . Average Completion Time of Various Batches using
Distributed Round Robin , DELAY and mDelay
In order to test the effect of execution time of jobs , one large process is created in each of the normal batches and seven large processes are created in each of the delayed batches arriving at system . In this experiment the data is collected from the two hundred iterations of the experiment . In one repetition average of completion time of last candidate process at each of the workstations is calculated . At the same time , the average of the completion time of the last candidate process from each of the is also calculated . The mDelay produces 16 % batches improvement in average completion time of last process at each workstation and 10 % improvement in average completion time of each batch .
7 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK The improvement in DCEs will be an important step towards the improvement in the performance of applications ( including web applications and web services ) deployed over such DCEs . This research is having three major contributions . The first is in the area of distributed scheduling or resource management algorithms , where , four distributed scheduling algorithms MU , mDelay , WCAP and Trust Management and Reliability Policy have been developed . These algorithms may also be adopted in any of the existing distributed schedulers . The second type of strategies is service based approach to data access & integration and resource registration & discovery applicable large distributed computing environment . The third and final technique is a database caching scheme developed for the multitier web in
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India388 applications deployed on the Cluster , Grid or Cloud . This strategy has wide applicability in web applications since it improves the overall performance of the application . We feel that these algorithms shall improve the overall performance of the existing DCEs .
No work is enough to directly apply real world scenario , several enhancements are needed to apply these problems to real world applications . We proposed architectural solution to e Learning and data mining applications , their implementation is an important future extension of this work .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Broberg , S . Venugopal , R . Buyya , “ Market oriented grids and utility computing : the state of the art and future directions , ” Journal of Computing , Springer Verlag , Germany Vol . 6 , Issue 3 , 2008 , pp . 255 276 .
[ 2 ] E . Casalicchio , M . Colajanni , “ A client aware dispatching algorithm for web clusters providing multiple services , ” 10th International World Wide Web Conference , May 2001 , pp . 535544 .
[ 3 ] H . Casanova , “ SimGrid : a toolkit for the simulation of application scheduling , ” IEEE International Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid , May 2001 , pp . 430 437 .
[ 4 ] SJ Chapin , W . Cirne , DG Feitelson , JP Jones , ST Leutenegger , U . Schwiegelshohn , W . Smith , D . Talby , “ Benchmarks and standards for the evaluation of parallel job schedulers , ” Job Scheduling Strategies for Parallel Processing , Springer Verlag , Lecture Notes in Computer Science , Vol . 1659 , 1999 , pp . 66 89 .
[ 5 ] L . Cherkasova , M . Karlsson , “ Scalable web server cluster design with workload aware request distribution strategy , ” 3rd International Workshop on Advanced Issues of E Commerce and Web Based Information Systems , San Jose , CA , Jun 2001 , pp . 212–221 .
[ 6 ] C . Comito , D . Talia , T . Paolo , “ Grid services : principles , implementations and use , ” International Journal of Web and Grid Services , Inderscience Publishers , 2005 , pp . 48 68 . [ 7 ] S . Etalle , JD Hartog , S . Marsh , “ Trust and punishment , ” 1st International Conference on Autonomic Computing and Communication Systems , October 2007 .
[ 8 ] E . Gallo , H . F . Gagliardi , F . A . B . D . Silva , V . C . Neto , D . Alves , “ GISE a data access and integration service of epidemiological data for a grid based monitoring and simulation system , ” 40th Annual Simulation Symposium , Mar 2007 , pp . 267274 .
[ 9 ] CC Hui , ST Chanson , “ Improved strategies for dynamic load balancing , ” IEEE Concurrency , Vol . 7 , July 1999 .
[ 10 ] A . Iosup , H . Li , C . Dumitrescu , L . Wolters , DHJE Pema , http://gwaewitudelftnl/ “ The TheGridWorkloadFormat_v001.pdf , Nov 2006 . grid workload format , ”
[ 11 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ Performance enhancement of scheduling algorithms in web server clusters using improved dynamic load balancing policies , ” 2nd National Conference , For Nation Development , New Delhi , Feb 2008 , pp . 651 656 .
INDIACom 2008 Computing
[ 12 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo and M . Chandwani , “ Performance evaluation of grid simulators using profilers , ” 2nd International Conference on Computer and Automation Engineering , Singapore Vol . 2 , February 2010 , pp . 74 77 .
[ 13 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ A modified delay strategy for dynamic in cluster and grid environment , ” International Conference on Information Science and Applications ( ICISA 2010 ) , Seoul , Korea , Apr 2010 , pp . 1 8 . load balancing
[ 14 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ A content aware load balancing algorithm for grid computing environment , ” 3rd CSI National Conference on Education & Research , Mar 2010 , pp . 95 101 .
[ 15 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo and M . Chandwani “ Towards ecosystem2nd development of International Conference on Technology for Education , IIT Mumbai , July 2010 , pp . 68 72 . a distributed e Learning
[ 16 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ Maximum utility meta scheduling algorithm for users of economy based grid scheduling environment , ” 3rd International Conference on Contemporary Computing , Aug 2010 , pp . 23 33 . integration
[ 17 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ Generic data access and computing environment , ” International Journal of Grid Computing and Applications , Vol . 1 , No . 1 , Sep 2010 , pp . 14 21 . distributed service under
[ 18 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ Trust managing maximum utility meta scheduling algorithm for economy based grid scheduling environment , ” Accepted in 2nd International Conference on Advanced Computing , Chennai , Dec 2010 .
[ 19 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo and M . Chandwani “ An architectural roadmap of building knowledge cloud , ” Communicated .
[ 20 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ Decentralized content aware load balancing algorithm for distributed computing International Conference and environment , ” Accepted Workshop on Emerging Trends and Technology , Mumbai , Feb 2011 . in
[ 21 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ A service based approach of resource registration and discovery in distributed computing environment , ” Communicated .
[ 22 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo , M . Chandwani , “ EcoGrid : a dynamically configurable object oriented simulation environment for economy based grid scheduling algorithms , ” Communicated .
[ 23 ] H . Mehta , P . Kanungo and M . Chandwani , “ Distributed database caching for multitier web applications , ” Accepted in International Conference and Workshop on Emerging Trends and Technology , Mumbai , Feb 2011 .
[ 24 ] A . Naseer , IK Stergioulas , “ Resource discovery in grids and other distributed environments : states of the art , ” Multiagent and Grid Systems An International Journal , IOS Press , 2006 .
[ 25 ] A . Sulistio , U . Cibej , S . Venugopal , B . Robic , R . Buyya , “ A toolkit for modeling and simulating data grids : an extension to GridSim , ” Concurrency and Computation : Practice and Experience , Wiley Press , Jan 2008 , pp . 1591 1609 .
[ 26 ] L . Xiao , Y . Zhu , LM Ni , Z . Xu , “ Incentive based IEEE scheduling Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems , Vol . 19 , No . 7 , Jul 2008 , pp . 903 913 . computational grids , ” for market like
[ 27 ] J . Zhang , X . Lu , “ A dynamic job scheduling algorithm for computational grid , ” 2nd International Workshop Grid and Cooperative Computing , Dec 2003 , pp . 40 47 .
WWW 2011 – Ph . D . SymposiumMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India389
