SemSearch’11 the 4th Semantic Search Workshop
[ Workshop Summary ]
Marko Grobelnik Jozef Stefan Institute
Ljubljana Slovenia
Peter Mika
Yahoo! Research
Barcelona
Spain
Thanh Tran
Institute AIFB , KIT
Karlsruhe Germany markogrobelnik@ijssi pmika@yahoo inc.com ducthanhtran@kitedu
Haofen Wang
Apex Lab
Shanghai Jiao Tong University whfcarter@apexsjtueducn
China
ABSTRACT The use of semantics and semantic technologies for search and retrieval has attracted interests both from academia and industry in recent years . What is now commonly known as Semantic Search is in fact a broad field encompassing ideas and concepts from different areas , including Information Retrieval , Semantic Web and database . This is the fourth edition of the Semantic Search workshop which aims to bring together researchers and practitioners from various communities , to provide a forum for dissemination , discussion , and for the exchange and transfer of knowledge related to the use of semantics for search and retrieval . This year ’s workshop will continue to push and promote efforts towards an evaluation benchmark for Semantic Search systems .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Storage , Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Theory , Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Performance , Human Factors
Keywords Information retrieval , document retrieval , data retrieval , semantic search
1 . SUMMARY
In recent years we have witnessed substantial exploitation of search technologies , both at web and enterprise scale . However , the representation of user queries and information in existing search appliances is still almost exclusively achieved by simple syntax based descriptions ( ie keyword queries matched against bag of words document representation ) . While these systems have shown to work well for many
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . common search needs , they work on the basis of rough approximations and usually fail to address more complex tasks such as aggregation and information analytics .
On the other hand , recent advances in the field of semantic technologies have resulted in tools and standards that allow for the articulation of domain knowledge at a high level of expressivity . Semantic repositories and reasoning engines have now advanced to a state where querying and processing of this knowledge can scale to large scale scenarios . As such , semantic technologies are posed to provide significant contributions to IR problems . More expressive descriptions of resources are achieved through the representation of the resource content in terms of concepts and structured data ( OWL , RDF ) . The recent media interest around Wolfram Alpha , PowerSet ( acquired by Microsoft Bing ) and Yahoo SearchMonkey show the expectations regarding the impact of semantic search .
The other way around , we have also seen the successful adoption of ideas from IR to the problem of search in semantic ( Web ) data , which is due to the increasing size of the Semantic Web . Popular examples include the Linking Open Data project , the large body of data in forms of Microformats and RDFa data associated with text . Common to these scenarios is that the search is focused not on a document collection , but on semantic data ( which may be possibly linked to or embedded in textual information ) . Search and ranking large amount of semantic data on the Web is another key topic addressed by this workshop .
The WWW’11 conference is the best place for this workshop as it effectively links together three of the key topics of the conference program : Search , Semantic Web , and Bridging Structured and Unstructured Data . Our workshop also builds on the successes of our first and second workshop on semantic search . The first workshop was among the biggest ones at ESWC’08 ( ie , 50 participants ) and has attracted the highest number of submissions ( ie , 22 submissions with 11 accepted papers , 50 % acceptance rate ) . The scale of our second workshop on “ semantic search ” at WWW’09 grows in terms of the number of participants ( ie , more than 80 persons attended the workshop ) and more submissions with lower acceptance rate ( ie , 28 submissions with 6 regular papers and 8 posters ) . The WWW’10 workshop was even more successful with 10 percent more in paper submissions . After
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India315 • Hybrid Query Interfaces ( A Combination of NL , Key words , Forms , Facets , and Formal Queries )
• Visualization of Semantic Data / Expressive Docu ment Representation on the Web
Evaluation of Semantic Search [ 10 ]
• Evaluation Methodologies for Semantic Search • Standard Datasets and Benchmarks for Semantic Search • Infrastructure for Semantic Search Evaluation
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Chu Carroll , J . M . Prager , K . Czuba , D . A .
Ferrucci , and P . A . Dubou´e , “ Semantic search via xml fragments : a high precision approach to ir , ” in SIGIR , 2006 , pp . 445–452 .
[ 2 ] P . Castells , M . Fern´andez , and D . Vallet , “ An adaptation of the vector space model for ontology based information retrieval , ” IEEE Trans . Knowl . Data Eng . , vol . 19 , no . 2 , pp . 261–272 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] D . Trieschnigg , W . Kraaij , and M . J . Schuemie , “ Concept based document retrieval for genomics literature , ” in TREC , 2006 .
[ 4 ] T . Tran , H . Wang , and P . Haase , “ Hermes : Data web search on a pay as you go integration infrastructure , ” J . Web Sem . , vol . 7 , no . 3 , pp . 189–203 , 2009 .
[ 5 ] H . Wang , Q . Liu , T . Penin , L . Fu , L . Zhang , T . Tran , Y . Yu , and Y . Pan , “ Semplore : A scalable ir approach to search the web of data , ” J . Web Sem . , vol . 7 , no . 3 , pp . 177–188 , 2009 .
[ 6 ] G . Cheng and Y . Qu , “ Searching linked objects with falcons : Approach , implementation and evaluation , ” Int . J . Semantic Web Inf . Syst . , vol . 5 , no . 3 , pp . 49–70 , 2009 .
[ 7 ] P . Cimiano , P . Haase , J . Heizmann , M . Mantel , and
R . Studer , “ Towards portable natural language interfaces to knowledge bases the case of the orakel system , ” Data Knowl . Eng . , vol . 65 , no . 2 , pp . 325–354 , 2008 .
[ 8 ] T . Tran , H . Wang , S . Rudolph , and P . Cimiano ,
“ Top k exploration of query candidates for efficient keyword search on graph shaped ( rdf ) data , ” in ICDE , 2009 , pp . 405–416 .
[ 9 ] X . Zhang , G . Cheng , and Y . Qu , “ Ontology summarization based on rdf sentence graph , ” in WWW , 2007 , pp . 707–716 .
[ 10 ] J . Pound , P . Mika , and H . Zaragoza , “ Ad hoc object retrieval in the web of data , ” in WWW , 2010 , pp . 771–780 . the LOD workshop , it was the one with the highest number of participants . Our current workshop proposal reflects the continuing maturity of this field by putting a greater emphasis on semantic search evaluation . We will provide a benchmark for participants to evaluation their semantic search solutions .
2 . CHALLENGES
In this context , challenges for Semantic Search research will include , among others :
• How can semantic technologies be applied to the IR problems ?
• How to address scalability and effectiveness of data
Web search ( by applying IR technologies ) ?
• How to allow web user to exploit the expressiveness of the semantic data on the Web ? Ie how to lower the technical barriers for users to ask complex questions and to interact with web data to obtain concrete answers for complex needs ?
• And most importantly , how can this new generation of search systems that successfully exploit semantics for IR or for data Web search can be evaluated and compared ( with standard IR systems or semantic repositories ) ?
3 . TOPICS
Semantic Search is defined through two main directions . First is Semantic driven IR , the application of semantic technologies to the IR problem . The second is Semantic Data Search , which mainly deals with the retrieval of semantic data . Main topics of interest for the envisioned workshop contributions include ( but are not limited to ) the following :
Semantic driven IR [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] • Expressive Document Models • Knowledge Extraction for Building Expressive Docu ment Representation
• Matching and Ranking based on Expressive Document
Representation
• Infrastructure for Semantic driven IR
Semantic Data Search [ 4 , 5 , 6 ]
• Crawling , Storage and Indexing of Semantic Data • Semantic Data Search and Ranking • Data Web Search : Search in Multi Data Source , Multi
Repository Scenarios
• Dealing with Vague , Incomplete and Dirty Semantic
Data
• Infrastructure for Searching Semantic Data on the Web
Interaction Paradigms for Semantic Search [ 7 , 8 , 9 ]
• Natural Language Interfaces • Keyword based Query Interfaces
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India316
