Coverage Patterns For Efficient Banner Advertisement Placement
S Bhargav
International Institute of Information Technology
Hyderabad , India bhargavlife@gmailcom
P Krishna Reddy
International Institute of Information Technology
Hyderabad , India pkreddy@iiitacin
R Uday Kiran
International Institute of Information Technology
Hyderabad , India udayrage@gmailcom
ABSTRACT In an online banner advertising scenario , an advertiser expects that the banner advertisement should be displayed to certain percentage of web site visitors . In this context , to generate more revenue for a given web site , the publisher has to meet the demands of several advertisers by providing appropriate sets of web pages . To help the publishers and advertisers , in this paper , we propose a model of coverage patterns and a methodology to extract potential coverage patterns by analyzing click stream data . Given web pages of a site , a coverage pattern is a set of web pages visited by a certain percentage of visitors . The proposed approach has the potential to enable the publisher in meeting the demands of several advertisers . The efficiency and advantages of the proposed approach is shown by conducting experiments on real world data sets . Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services commercial services , web based services General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation Keywords Click stream mining , online advertising , internet monetization , computational advertising
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online advertising is an important factor for the growth of internet economy . Banner advertising is one of the dominant mode of online advertising in addition to the contextual and sponsored search advertising . Most of the research work on online banner advertisement domain has been focused on bidding [ 3 ] and scheduling of advertisements [ 5 ] . In case of banner advertisement , a publisher receives requests from several advertisers for a set of web pages to place the advertisement covering certain percentage of web site visitors . In this situation , for a given web site , the publisher has a problem of providing appropriate set of web pages for each advertiser satisfying the respective coverage . In this paper , a model of coverage pattern is proposed to identify multiple sets of web pages where each set covers a given portion of the web site visitors . Given a set of click stream transactions , an algorithm is proposed to identify the coverage patterns . By extracting several coverage patterns , the proposed approach provides flexibility to the publisher in providing multiple advertising options to the advertisers .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
2 . PROPOSED MODEL AND ALGORITHM
2.1 Model of Coverage Patterns
To extract the coverage patterns , we consider the transactions generated from click stream data . Each transaction contains a set of web pages . Let W = {w1 , w2 , ··· , wn} be a set of identifiers of web pages of a given web site and D be a set of click stream transactions , where each transaction T is a set of web pages such that T ⊆ W . Let T wi , wi ∈ W , be the set of all T IDs in D that contain the web page wi . A set of web pages in W ie , X = {wp,··· , wq} , 1 ≤ p ≤ q ≤ n , is called a pattern . A pattern containing k number of web pages is called a k pattern .
DEFINITION 1 . ( Relative frequency of a web page wi ∈ W . ) Normalizing the frequency of a web page wi ∈ W by transactional database size |D| gives the relative frequency of wi and is denoted as RF ( wi ) . That is , RF ( wi ) = |T wi | |D|
.
.
|D|
DEFINITION 2 . ( Coverage support of a pattern X . ) The ratio of number of transactions containing at least one item in X to the transactional database size is called the coverage support of X and denoted as CS(X ) . That is , CS(X ) = |(T wp∪···∪T wq )| For a pattern X , CS(X ) ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . If CS(X ) = 0 , no single web page of X has appeared in the entire transactional database . If CS(X ) = 1 , every transaction in T contains at least one web page wj ∈ X . It can be noted that once a pattern X satisfies the user specified threshold value , say minimum coverage support ( minCS ) , then adding other items ( in particular items co occurring with X ) will also satisfy the minCS . However , such patterns are uninteresting in the context of banner advertisement because they do not increase the coverage support of a pattern significantly . To capture this aspect , we introduce another parameter known as the overlap ratio . DEFINITION 3 . ( Overlap ratio of a pattern . ) Overlap ratio of a pattern X = {wp,··· , wq , wr} , where 1 ≤ p ≤ q ≤ r ≤ n and |T wp| ≥ ··· ≥ |T wq| ≥ |T wr| , is the ratio of the number of transactions common in X − {wr} and {wr} to the number of transactions in wr ( ie , minimum number of transactions in either X − {wr} or {wr} ) . It is denoted as OR(X ) and is measured as follows .
|(T wp ∪ T wp+1 ∪ · ·· ∪T wq ) ∩ ( T wr )|
OR(X ) =
|T wr| For a pattern X , OR(X ) ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] . If OR(X ) = 0 , there exists no common transactions between X − {wr} and {wr} . If OR(X ) = 1 , wr has occurred in all the transactions where at least one web page wj ∈ ( X − {wr} ) has occurred . The parameter overlap ratio also does not satisfy the downward closure property
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India131 if a pattern is considered as an unordered set of web pages . However , it was observed that this measure satisfies the downward closure property if a pattern is an ordered set in which web pages are sorted in descending order of their frequencies . This property is known as the sorted closure property [ 4 ] .
Now , we define the coverage pattern as follows . DEFINITION 4 . ( Coverage pattern X . ) A pattern X = {wp , . . . , wq , wr} , where 1 ≤ p ≤ q ≤ r ≤ n , is said to be a coverage pattern if CS(X ) ≥ minCS and OR(X ) ≤ maxOR and RF ( wi ) ≥ minRF ∀wi ∈ X . The variables minCS , maxOR and minRF represent the user specified minimum coverage support , maximum overlap ratio and minimum relative frequency respectively . Problem statement : Given a transactional database T , W and user specified minRF , minCS and maxOR , identify the set of coverage patterns such that i . If X is a coverage 1 pattern ( ie , k = 1 ) , then RF ( wi ) ≥ ii . Otherwise ( ie , when k > 1 ) , each coverage pattern X must minRF and RF ( wi ) ≥ minCS , wi ∈ X . have CS(X ) ≥ minCS , OR(X ) ≤ maxOR and RF ( wi ) ≥ minRF , where wi ∈ X .
2.2 Algorithm
In this section , we explain the coverage patterns mining ( CPMine ) algorithm . First , we define the notion of non overlap pattern X . DEFINITION 5 . ( Non overlap pattern X . ) A pattern X is said to be non overlap if OR(X ) ≤ maxOR and RF ( wi ) ≥ minRF ∀wi ∈ X . The CPMine algorithm considers minRF , minCS and maxOR parameters for mining coverage patterns . CPMine [ 1 ] employs level wise search to discover the complete set of coverage patterns . In level wise search , k patterns are used to explore ( k + 1 ) patterns . In the first scan of the database , CPMine discovers the set of all frequent items whose relative frequency is greater than minRF ( denoted as N O1 ) and coverage 1 patterns ( denoted as L1 ) . Then , the items in N O1 are sorted in the descending order of their frequencies . This is the important exception that has to be carried out in the CPMine algorithm to efficiently mine coverage patterns . Each item i N O1 is of the form < i , T i > where T i denotes a set of transaction ids’ which contain an item i . Using N O1 as a seed set , candidate patterns C2 are generated by N O1 1 N O1 . From C2 , the patterns that satisfy minCS and maxOR are generated as coverage 2 patterns , L2 . Simultaneously , all candidate 2 patterns that satisfy maxOR are generated as non overlap 2 patterns N O2 . Since overlap patterns satisfy sorted closure property , C3 is generated by combining N O2 1 N O2 . From C3 , L3 and N O3 are discovered . The above described process is repeated until no new non overlap patterns are found , or no new candidate pattern can be generated . The set L = {L1 ∪ L2 ·· · ∪ Lk} represents the set of discovered coverage patterns .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
Figure 1 shows how the number of patterns extracted with CPMine algorithm vary with minCS and maxOR . The experiments are conducted on BMS POS data set [ 6 ] . At the fixed maxOR value , it can be observed that the number of coverage patterns decreases as minCS value increases . Normally , as minCS value increases the number of pages in the set increases . Several small sets fail to qualify the minCS threshold value . At the fixed minCS value , it can also be observed that the number of patterns increases as maxOR value increases . It is due to the fact that as maxOR value is increased more number of web pages qualify minCS value . As a result , the number of coverage patterns also increases . maxOR = 0.5 maxOR = 0.6 maxOR = 0.7 maxOR = 0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0.5
0.6
0.9
0.8
0.7 maxOR s n r e t t a P f o r e b m u N
1000
800
600
400
200
0 0.8
0.7
0.6 minCS
Figure 1 : Performance of CPMine algorithm .
Table 1 shows the sample of two coverage patterns with the corresponding coverage supports extracted from the click stream transaction data set of an online news portal MSNBC [ 2 ] using proposed approach . It can be observed that there is no intersection between the first and second coverage patterns , even though they differ little in terms of coverage support value . The publisher can provide either of the option to the advertiser .
Table 1 : Two patterns extracted from MSNBC dataset [ 2 ] Coverage Coverage pattern support 0.47 0.44 local , on air , health , tech news , weather , sports , bulletin board service
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we have proposed an efficient approach to help the publisher of the web site to manage the requests of several advertisers for banner advertisement placement . We have proposed a model of coverage patterns and an iterative approach to extract the same . The efficiency and advantages of proposed approach are shown by conducting experiments on real world data sets . As a part of future work , in addition to building a tool for banner advertisement placement , we are planning to extend the notion of coverage patterns for extracting potential knowledge patterns in other domains . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Bhargav and P . K . Reddy . Data analysis approaches for improved online banner advertisement placement and identifying suitable crop cultivation period . Technical report , IIIT , Hyderabad , India , 2011 .
[ 2 ] A . Frank and A . Asuncion . UCI ML repository , 2010 . [ 3 ] A . Ghosh , B . I . Rubinstein , S . Vassilvitskii , and M . Zinkevich .
Adaptive bidding for display advertising . In In Proc . of 18th World wide Web Conference(WWW 09 ) , 2009 .
[ 4 ] B . Liu , W . Hsu , and Y . Ma . Mining association rules with multiple minimum supports . In In Proc . of the fifth ACM SIGKDD ( KDD 99 ) , 1999 .
[ 5 ] M . Mahdian , H . Nazerzadeh , and A . Saberi . Allocating online advertisement space with unreliable estimates . In Proceedings of the 8th ACM conference on Electronic commerce , 2007 .
[ 6 ] Z . Zheng , R . Kohavi , and L . Mason . Real world performance of association rule algorithms . In In Proc . of the seventh ACM SIGKDD(KDD 01 ) , 2001 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India132
