Is Pay Per Click Efficient ?
An Empirical Analysis of Click Values
Dakan Wang
Stanford University fightiori@gmail.com
Gang Wang , Pinyan Lu , Yajun Wang , Zheng Chen
Microsoft Research Asia
Beijing , China
{gawa , pinyanl , yajunw , zhengc} @microsoft.com
Botao Hu
Tsinghua University botaoahu@gmailcom
ABSTRACT Current sponsored search auction adopts per click bidding . It implicitly assumes that an advertiser treats all clicks to be equally valuable . This is not always true in real world situations . Clicks which lead to conversions are definitely more valuable than those fraudulent clicks . In this work , we use post ad click behavior to measure a click ’s value and empirically show that for an advertiser , values of different clicks are highly variant . Thus for many clicks , the advertiser ’s single bid does not reflect his true valuations . This indicates that the sponsored search system under PPC mechanism is not efficient , or does not always give a slot to the advertiser who needs it most .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Design , Experimentation
Keywords Internet Monetization
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Sponsored search has become one of the most profitable components for search engine . When a user issues a query , the system will choose a list of advertisements matching the keywords and display them on the webpage . The order of the advertisements is determined by the bids corresponding advertisers submit . The bid is usually the average value of all clicks . The advertiser uses the same bid even though clicks may be of different values . This may lead to a problem when the variance of the click values is high : the advertiser may bid a higher value on an invaluable click . From game theory perspective , the pay per click mechanism may not be efficient : since we do not know the advertiser ’s true valuation of a click , we cannot guarantee that the system gives a slot to an advertiser who needs it most .
The goal of this work is to provide a empirical analysis of the click values and motivate the mechanism design re
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . searchers to think about a refined and more efficient mechanism beyond the currently used PPC mechanism . We use a user ’s post ad click behavior as a surrogate for the value of his click on an advertisement . We propose two assumptions on click values and empirically validate them to imply that the value variance is typically high for many advertisers and that the currently adopted PPC mechanism may not be efficient .
We propose the two assumptions in section 2 and validate them in section 3 .
2 . ASSUMPTIONS ON CLICK VALUES
We use a user ’s post ad click behavior [ 2 , 3 , 1 ] to measure the value of his click on the advertisement . Post ad click behavior is defined to be the user ’s subsequent online behavior on the advertiser ’s website after the click . In this section , we look into click values from two perspectives :
• Click value variability : We assume that the variance in click value is very high and that if we group clicks according to their values , the variance in each group is significantly reduced . Advertisers always would like to submit a bid for a click group of low value variance . Therefore , if the variance is high , an advertiser has the incentive to differentiate users and provides different bids for different groups .
• Advertiser evaluation variability : We assume that different advertisers have different business strategies and thus different valuations of a click from the same user . A click that is valuable to one advertiser may be worthless to another advertiser . Enabling advertisers to differentiate clicks and place different bids can make the system more efficient and increase advertisers’ satisfactions .
3 . EMPIRICAL ANALYSIS ON CLICK VAL
UES
In this section , we will use the toolbar log to validate the proposed assumptions . We totally collect a set of 29 advertisers A = {a1 , a2 , , a29} on computer games . In the dataset , We denote by Ui = {ui1 , ui2 , } the set consisted of users who clicked ai ’s advertisements , and denote by t(uij ) the dwell time of the user uij on the advertiser website . In the dataset , many users clicked different advertisers’ ads .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India141 Figure 1 : Click group variance compared with payper click variance
We assume that an advertiser uses dwell time to evaluate the value of a click . Therefore , for each ad ai , we rank clicks according to their dwell time . We then let the top 10 % clicks form a click group U 1 i , and the remaining ones form U 3 i . i , the top 11 % 50 % ones form U 2
3.1 Click Value Variability
We use the relative standard deviation of the dwell time to measure click value variability . Specifically , given a set of clicks and their dwell time T = {t1 , , tm} , we calculate the mean µ(T ) and the variance σ(T ) of the dwell time . The relative standard deviation rsd(T ) is the quotient between σ(T ) and µ(T ) . i , U 2
For each advertiser ai , we calculate the relative standard i ) on four click i ) , rsd(T 2 deviations rsd(Ti ) , rsd(T 1 i ) , rsd(T 3 groups , ie , Ui , U 1 i , U 3 i . We plot four curves C0 , C1 , C2 , C3 in Figure 1 where Cj = {(i , rsd(T j i ))} We can see from the Figure 1 that the relative standard deviation on the click set {Ti} is very high , up to 5.8 for an advertiser . It indicates that the variance in click value is high . However , after the clicks are grouped into three groups , the relative standard deviation in each group is significantly reduced . Figure 1 shows that the relative standard deviation in each group is decreased by more than 50 % percentage for most advertisers . Therefore , an advertiser may prefer a system which enables him to bid differently on each group . 3.2 Advertiser Evaluation Variability
In this section , we empirically prove that different advertisers have different criterions to determine which group a click belongs to . Recall that advertiser ai divides clicks i } and i = max{t(uij ) , uij ∈ U 3 into three groups . Let θ3 i } . We construct three intervals i = max{t(uij} , uij ∈ U 2 θ2 i ,∞ ] correponding to the dwell time i ] , and [ θ2 [ 0 , θ3 i ,U 2 intervals for groups U 3 i and assume that ai determines a click c ’s group by finding the interval which c ’s dwell time falls into . i , and U 1 i ] , [ θ3 i , θ2
Thus , for each advertiser , we plot the three intervals to be a colored horizontal bar in Figure 2 . Intervals of click group 3 , 2 and 1 are in blue , red and green respectively . Different advertisers correspond to different bars . It is clear from the figure that the click valuations of different advertisers are significantly different .
In order to make the conclusion more solid , we give a definition for effective user as follows : definition 1 . We say that u is a effective user for ad vertiser ai if
1 . Besides ai , u has also clicked other advertisers’ ads . 2 . There exists at least one other advertiser aj such that the user u ’s clicks on the two advertisers’ ads belong to different click groups .
Figure 3 illustrates the proportion of the effective users and the proportion of the ineffective users for 29 advertisers . We can see that every advertiser has over 40 % effective users , which validates the assumption about advertiser evaluation variability . Therefore , if the mechanism allows an advertiser to define its own click group , the sponsored search will be more effective and can allocate the slot to the advertiser which needs it most .
Figure 2 : Different evaluations of clicks by different advertisers
Figure 3 : The proportion of effective users Of advertisers
4 . CONCLUSION
We conducted an empiricaly analysis of the click values . We proposed two assumptions , click value variability and advertiser evaluation variabiltiy and verified them on the toolbar log data . Experimental results implied the necessity to enable advertisers to define their click groups and submit a separate bid for each group .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Attenberg , S . Pandey , and T . Suel . Modeling and predicting user behavior in sponsored search . KDD ’09 , pages 1067–1076 , New York , NY , USA , 2009 . ACM .
[ 2 ] D . Sculley , R . G . Malkin , S . Basu , and R . J . Bayardo .
Predicting bounce rates in sponsored search advertisements . KDD ’09 , pages 1325–1334 , New York , NY , USA , 2009 . ACM .
[ 3 ] R . W . White and S . M . Drucker . Investigating behavioral variability in web search . WWW ’07 , pages 21–30 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India142
