Finding Influential Mediators in Social Networks
Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia , National Taiwan University , Taipei , Taiwan 1
Cheng Te Li1 , Shou De Lin1 , Man Kwan Shan2
Department of Computer Science , National Chengchi University , Taipei , Taiwan 2
{d98944005 , sdlin}@csientuedutw , mkshan@csnccuedutw to consider the k Mediators problem the DBLP co authorship graph show
ABSTRACT Given a social network , who are the key players controlling the bottlenecks of influence propagation if some persons would like to activate specific individuals ? In this paper , we tackle the problem of selecting a set of k mediator nodes as the influential gateways whose existence determines the activation probabilities of targeted nodes from some given seed nodes . We formally define the kMediators problem . To have an effective and efficient solution , we propose a three step greedy method by considering the probabilistic influence and the structural connectivity on the pathways from sources to targets . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work in networks . Experiments on the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications – Data mining . General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Design . Keywords Targeted Marketing , Influential Mediator , Social Networks . 1 . INTRODUCTION Social network plays a significant role as the spread of information and influence for target marketing and immunization setting . The problem , influence maximization [ 4 ] , is to find a subset of influential individuals ( as seeds ) such that they can eventually influence the largest number of people in a social network . Some greedy [ 6][10 ] and heuristic [ 1][2 ] methods are proposed to effectively and efficiently solve this problem . There are some important variations to tackle different real world requirements . Leskovec et al . [ 6 ] propose to select a set of social sensors such that their placements can efficiently detect the propagation of information or virus in a social network . Lappas et al . [ 5 ] propose to find a set of effectors who can cause an activation pattern as similar as possible to the given active nodes in a social network . In this paper , we reveal another crucial problem for finding influential mediators in a social network . Considering a source node as the seed of influence propagation and a target node as the goal of activation , what are the best mediators to coordinate the spreading process from the source to the target ? Potential applications on realistic scenarios include ( 1 ) who are the key individuals that hold the bottlenecks of influence propagation to targeted persons given specific initial seeds ? ( 2 ) In epidemiological setting , given some infected persons and some ones we intend to defend , who are those best few disseminators we should immunize ? ( 3 ) In the computer network , if some hackers aim at spreading a
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28 – April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .

1 vvp , ( i i
) tsap ),( m 1   i 1 virus to certain sites , which are the best gateways we should carefully monitor and guard ? Preliminary . First , we adopt the Independent Cascade ( IC ) model [ 4 ] for the information propagation . In IC model , in time step t each active node u has a single chance to activate each of its inactive neighbors v with a pre determined probability p(u,v ) . If u succeeds , v will become active in step ( t+1 ) . Otherwise , u will not activate v again . Second , given the source set of nodes S  V as the originally active nodes and the target set of nodes T  V , where S and T are mutually exclusive , if a source sS can activate a target tT , we can obtain a propagation path Ps,t=<s=v1,v2,,vm=t> And we . If compute the activation probability as s fails to activate t , then ap(s,t)=0 . The activation probability between the source set S and target set T is defined as ap(S,T)=ΣsS,tT ap(s,t ) . Third , we further define the mediation probability as mp(S,T,M ) = ap(S,T ) – apM(S,T ) , where apM(S,T ) is the activation probability from S to T by setting those nodes in M as sinks ( ie , when the information propagates to nodes in M , it can just stops there and make no activations ) . Problem Definition . ( The k Mediators Problem ) Given ( 1 ) a social network G=(V , E , P ) , where V stands for individuals and each undirected edge ( u,v ) E is associated an influence probability p(u , v ) [0 , 1 ] as weights , ( 2 ) a set of source nodes S , ( 3 ) a set of target nodes T , and ( 4 ) a budget ( integer ) k , find a set of k nodes ( mediators ) M with the highest mediation probability mp(S , T,M ) . To solve the k Mediators problem , we consider the probabilistic influence and the structural connectivity to develop a greedy heuristic algorithm . Our method consists of three steps . First , we reduce the graph space by retrieving a reliable induced subgraph from the social network . Second , we devise a Mediation Steiner algorithm to find the best propagation tree connecting sources and targets on leaves . It is greedily combined with the third step to find top k mediators . The third is to find the kth mediator by a heuristic proximity based node selection . Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the purposed method . 2 . THE PROPOSED METHOD Our method consists of three parts : ( 1 ) reliable subgraph extraction , ( 2 ) Mediation Steiner algorithm , ( 3)proximity based node selection . Reliable Subgraph Extraction . Since a real world social network contains lots of nodes and edges and only a subset of them relates to the user specified sources and targets , we prune some irrelevant information and retain the effective ones as a reliable subgraph for finding best mediators . The pruning process is controlled by two factors : ( a ) the probabilistic weights on edges , ( b ) the connectivity from sources to targets . Those edges with weights below a threshold  are removed from the original network . The pruning proceeds by increasing the threshold  and terminates when there exists one source disconnected to any other target . After pruning ,
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India75 we retrieve the component connecting any source node to any target node and discard other parts . This component is called the reliable subgraph H , which is beneficial to time efficiency . Mediation Steiner Algorithm . Based on the reliable subgraph , we find the Best Propagation Tree ( BPT ) to capture the most effective pathways of influence propagation from sources to targets . Specifically , we aim at finding a tree that connect the source and target nodes on leaves and has the highest mediation probabilities at all target nodes propagating from some source nodes . We propose to modify the Steiner Tree algorithm [ 7 ] to find the best propagation tree . Recall the original Steiner Tree problem is to search out the minimum cost tree in the input graph containing all required nodes and some intermediate nodes ( ie , Steiner nodes ) . However , there are three things needed to concern : ( a ) what we tackle is the influence propagation where the tree cost is measured by product of edge weights instead of sum of edge weights , ( b ) the required nodes consists of two kinds of nodes ( ie , source and target ) , and ( c ) the goal is to route each source to each target by a maximum activation probability . Therefore , we devise a new Steiner Tree algorithm , called Mediation Steiner , which is shown in line 4–10 in Algorithm 1 . Specifically , by adding each source node into BPT incrementally , we find the propagation path with the highest activation probability on each target node from those nodes in the current BPT . And the corresponding path is added into BPT . Note that the function HighestActivationProb/Path can be easily derived by modifying the Dijkstra ’s shortest path algorithm . Algorithm 1 . The Proposed Algorithm . Input : the social network G = ( V , E , P ) ; the source set S and target set T ; a budget ( integer ) k . Output : a set of k nodes M . 1 : 2 : M =  . // the top mediators 3 : 4 : 5 : 6 : 7 : 8 : 9 : 10 : 11 : 12 : 13 : 14 : for i=1 to k do // select the top k mediators in a greedy manner BPT = . // the best propagation tree in each run foreach s  S do VH = VH  {s} . foreach t  T do x* ← argmax if HighestActivationPath(x* , t ) ≠ then BPT ← BPT  {HighestActivationPath ( x* , t)} . prox({(v|vVBPT)} ) ← RandomWalkRestart(BPT , S  T ) . m = argmax Vv  M = M  {m} . VH = VH \ M .
H = ( VH , EH , PH ) ← ReliableSubgraphExtract(G ) .
HVx  HighestActivationProb(x , t ) in H . prox(v ) . //proximity based selection .
BPT
( \
TS

)
Proximity based Node Selection . We consider the structural connectivity to find the bottlenecks of influence propagation as the mediators . The proximity scores with respect to sources and targets are computed by Random Walk with Restart [ 9 ] in the best propagation tree . We select the top k mediators by greedily picking the nodes with the highest proximity in BPT , as shown in line 3 , 11–14 in Algorithm 1 . 3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We conduct the experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our method . We compile the DBLP bibliography data to a connected co authorship network , which contains 6,616 nodes and 12,807 edges in some recent premier conferences of data mining ( including KDD , ICDM , SDM , PAKDD , and CIKM ) . The probabilistic weights on edges are determined by the number of coauthor between two persons . If #co author is higher than 20 , we set the weight to be 1 , otherwise it is set as #co author/20 . One will have higher potential to activate its neighbor if they have more co works . Since the basic idea of the proposed mediation probability is to find the nodes controlling the bottleneck of influence flows from sources to targets , we compare our method with some alternatives : ( 1 ) randomly selecting k nodes in the reliable subgraph , ( 2 ) selecting k nodes with the highest CePS AND score [ 8 ] , ( 3 ) selecting k nodes with the highest betweenness score [ 3 ] in the reliable subgraph . We measure the effectiveness by the normalized decay of activation probability ( ap(S,T)–apM(S,T))/ap(S,T ) . The results are averaged over 1,000 randomly picked source target setpairs , where each source/target set has two nodes . Besides , the number of simulation rounds for independent cascade is 10,000 . The result is shown in Figure 1(a ) . We can observe ours outperforms others , especially when k is small . Besides , for the time efficiency of finding the top k ( k=10 ) mediators , ours also outperforms CePS . Note that we do not show the runtime of betweenness since it is much longer than ours and CePS .
Figure 1(a ) . Effectiveness comparison our method and alternatives . x axis the budget k and y axis is the normalized decay of mediation probability . Higher is better . ( b ) Comparison of time efficiency . 4 . CONCLUSION We introduce and define the k Mediators problem which is to find the bottlenecks of influence propagation from given seed nodes to targeted nodes . To solve the problem effectively and efficiently , we consider the pathways of probabilistic propagation and structural affinity to propose a greedy heuristic method , which consisting of pruning irrelevant information , finding the best propagation tree , and selecting the mediators based on the proximity . Evaluations on real world DBLP co authorship data show the effectiveness and efficiency of our method . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] W . Chen and C . Wang . Scalable Influence Maximization for Prevalent
Viral Marketing in Large Scale Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
[ 2 ] W . Chen , Y . Wang , and S . Yang . Efficient Influence Maximization in
Social Networks . In KDD 2009 .
[ 3 ] L . C . Freeman . A Set of Measures of Centrality Based on Betweenness . In
Sociometry 1977 .
[ 4 ] D . Kempe , J . Kleinberg , and E . Tardos . Maximizing the Spread of
Influence through a Social Network . In KDD 2003 .
[ 5 ] T . Lappas , E . Terzi , D . Gunopulos , and H . Mannila . Finding Effectors in
Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
[ 6 ] J . Leskovec , A . Krause , C . Guestrin , C . Faloutsos , J . VanBriesen , and N . Glance . Cost effective Outbreak Detection in Networks . In KDD 2007 .
[ 7 ] H . Takahashi and A . Matsuyama . An Approximate Solution for the Steiner
Problem in Graphs . In Mathematica Japonica 1980 .
[ 8 ] H . Tong and C . Faloutsos . Center Piece Subgraph : Problem Definition and
[ 9 ] H . Tong , C . Faloutsos , and J . Y . Pan . Fast Random Walk with Restart and
Fast Solutions . In KDD 2006 .
Its Applications . In ICDM 2006 .
[ 10 ] Y . Wang , G . Cong , G . Song , and K . Xie . Community based Greedy
Algorithm for Mining Top k Influential Nodes in Mobile Social Networks . In KDD 2010 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India76
