Networked Hierarchies for Web Directories Saket SR Mengle
Nazli Goharian
Dataxu Inc Boston , USA smengle@dataxu.com
Computer Science Department
Georgetown University goharian@georgetown.edu
ABSTRACT The hierarchical nature of existing Web directories , ontologies , and folksonomies , are known to provide meaningful information that guide users and applications . We hypothesize that such hierarchical structures provide richer information if they are further enriched by incorporating additional links besides parents , and siblings , namely , between non sibling nodes . We call such structure a networked hierarchy . Our empirical results indicate that such a networked hierarchy introduces interesting links between nodes ( non sibling ) that otherwise in a hierarchical structure are not evident .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] Clustering
General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Design , Experimentation
Keywords Taxonomy , Text classification , Hidden Information
1 . INTRODUCTION Web directories such as Yahoo and Open Directory Project ( ODP ) classify web pages into document hierarchies . Such hierarchies are useful for effective information management . We are interested to automatically identify non sibling relationships and generate links among categories that do not share the same parents . An effort to utilize non sibling relationships was described in [ 1 ] and created a relationship net . Although such network provided some information that otherwise was not evident in a hierarchical structure , it was disadvantaged by the fact that the hierarchical characteristics of parent , child , and sibling relationships were , in part , lost . A networked hierarchy is a hierarchy that not only maintains the characteristics of a hierarchy , ie , parent , child , sibling , but also provides links between those non sibling categories ( nodes ) that are , indeed to a degree , relevant . A weight is calculated for each such link to indicate the strength of such relationship . Figure 1 shows an
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Figure 1 . Example of a networked hierarchy example of a networked hierarchy . This is a subset of the ODP hierarchy , with the additional links that our system identified between non sibling nodes . As shown , there is a relationship between non sibling nodes <Football , Games> and <Graphics , Games> that otherwise was not evident in a category hierarchy .
2 . CONSTRUCTING NETWORKED HIERARCHY We capitalize on earlier efforts in identifying relationships among categories . Some provide a higher precision and lower recall and some a higher recall and lower precision . Independent of the approach , we validated our hypothesis that such a networked hierarchy is more than a hierarchy . That is , it provides additional information that can be of interest . Next , briefly we explain the approaches used in [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] , namely , using misclassification information and association rule mining , respectively . A Misclassification based approach [ 1 ] is a text classificationbased approach that utilizes misclassification information , ie , false positives and false negatives . These classifications are generated during the process of text classification to detect relationships among categories . A relationship is predicted between category ci and cj when the highest number of the false positives or false negatives for category ci occurs in category cj or vice versa . The premise of this approach relies on the finding that categories that mostly are misclassified as each other indeed are relevant . The authors in [ 1 ] evaluated the approach favorably . A 5 step approach constructs a confusion matrix for the actual and predicted categories , and then after normalizing the values , identifies false positives ( FP ) and false negatives ( FN ) for each category . Finally , it establishes a relationship between two categories based on their highest false positive and false negative values . Unlike in [ 1 ] , our goal is to maintain the hierarchy structure of the data while establishing additional relationships and links . Hence , we disregard the misclassifications that occur among siblings , and parent child categories , and consider only the non sibling misclassification information in calculating the FP and FN . A weight is calculated based on the normalized FP or FN values , depending on which one is the highest , and is assigned to each link ( non sibling relationship ) .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India43 respectively , using misclassification based approach . However the precision of discovering these relationships is low , namely : 50 % , 57 % and 58 % for 20 Newsgroups , ODP17 and ODP46 datasets , respectively . The F1 measure for finding non sibling relationships is 65 % , 67 % and 71 % for 20 Newsgroups , ODP17 and ODP46 , respectively . Using association rule mining to identify the relationships did not yield comparable results to those based on misclassification information . Our results indicate that the proposed approach discovers most of the non sibling relationships in a hierarchy . Using a higher weight threshold on the links ( relationships ) , the lower weight links can be eliminated to improve the precision . 4 . CASE STUDY We present two case studies from our results . In Figures 3 and 4 , we illustrate networked hierarchies for ODP17 and 20 Newsgroups datasets , respectively . The non hierarchical links indicate relationships that are discovered among non sibling categories ( nodes ) . The solid line links are the non sibling relationships identified during manual evaluation ( true positives ) , and dashed line links indicate the relationships that were not identified during manual evaluation ( false positives ) . Our approach correctly discovered relationships such as <Baseball , Entertainment> , <Football , Games> , <Games , Entertainment> , <Games , Graphics> and <Hacking , Crime> in the ODP 17 dataset and <Atheism , Christian> , <Christian , Politics misc> , <Religion misc , Christian> , <Atheism , Politicsmisc> , Scielectronics> , etc . the 20 Newsgroups dataset . These relationships were not evident in the original hierarchies . Furthermore , unlike the Relationship net that lost some of the hierarchical structure between parent child and sibling , the networked hierarchy maintained all the hierarchical structure and relationships . In summary , we proposed a new structure called networked hierarchy that represents category relationships that unlike a network such as relationship net preserves the hierarchy of the categories and unlike a hierarchy represents also the non sibling relationships among categories . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Mengle , N . Goharian , Detecting Relationships among
<Atheism , Religion misc> ,
<Pc hardware , in
Categories using Text Classification , JASIST , 61 ( 5 ) , 2010 [ 2 ] S . Mengle , N . Goharian , Mining Temporal Relationships
Among Categories , ACM 25th Symposium on Applied Computing , 2010
Figure 2 . Evaluation of new relationships identified between nonsibling nodes in a hierarchy using misclassification based and association rule mining approaches i 
( cσ
)c j
An Association Rule Mining based approach calculates the support and confidence between each two categories in the hierarchy to determine additional relationships between candidate non sibling nodes [ 2 ] . A set of categories , C={c1,c2cn} , is considered as an itemset during the process of association rule mining ; the database D is a set of misclassifications , D={cactual , cpredicted} , with each misclassification having two elements from the itemset . The support ( ci , cj ) for categories ci and cj is defined as the ratio of data that contain both ci and cj ( ) . Confidence of a rule with two categories is calculated as the probability of category cj when a document belongs to category ci ( ci => cj ) or vice versa ( cj =>ci ) . 3 . RESULTS We empirically evaluated the effectiveness of such a networked hierarchy , using available benchmark datasets that present data in a hierarchy . For that , we used two versions of Open Directories Project namely , ODP17 ( 8,500 documents ) , and ODP 46 ( 23,000 documents ) , and 20 Newsgroups dataset ( 19,996 documents ) , each with 17 , 46 and 20 categories , respectively . We report the effectiveness in terms of precision , recall , and F1 measure . A manual evaluation was conducted to identify relationships among categories . Three graduate students , familiar with the domain , participated in this evaluation . We only used the relationships that the majority of the human assessors agreed upon , with the average Pearson ’s correlation of 82 % between each pair of the evaluators . Our results ( Figure 2 ) indicate that with relatively high recall ( 91 % , 80 % and 91 % ) we discover relationships among nonsibling categories for 20 Newsgroups , ODP17 and ODP 46 ,
Figure 3 . Case study for ODP 17 dataset
Figure 4 . Case study for 20 Newsgroups dataset
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India44
