Towards a Theory Model for Product Search∗
Beibei Li bli@sternnyuedu
Anindya Ghose aghose@sternnyuedu
Panagiotis G . Ipeirotis panos@sternnyuedu
Department of Information , Operations , and Management Sciences
Leonard N . Stern School of Business , New York University
New York , New York 10012 , USA
ABSTRACT With the growing pervasiveness of the Internet , online search for products and services is constantly increasing . Most product search engines are based on adaptations of theoretical models devised for information retrieval . However , the decision mechanism that underlies the process of buying a product is different than the process of locating relevant documents or objects .
We propose a theory model for product search based on expected utility theory from economics . Specifically , we propose a ranking technique in which we rank highest the products that generate the highest surplus , after the purchase . In a sense , the top ranked products are the “ best value for money ” for a specific user . Our approach builds on research on “ demand estimation ” from economics and presents a solid theoretical foundation on which further research can build on . We build algorithms that take into account consumer demographics , heterogeneity of consumer preferences , and also account for the varying price of the products . We show how to achieve this without knowing the demographics or purchasing histories of individual consumers but by using aggregate demand data . We evaluate our work , by applying the techniques on hotel search . Our extensive user studies , using more than 15,000 user provided ranking comparisons , demonstrate an overwhelming preference for the rankings generated by our techniques , compared to a large number of existing strong state of the art baselines . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms Algorithms , Economics , Experimentation , Measurement Keywords Consumer Surplus , Economics , Product Search , Ranking , Text Mining , User Generated Content , Utility Theory
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online search for products is increasing in popularity , as more and more users search and purchase products from the Internet . Most search engines for products today are based on models of relevance from “ classic ” information retrieval theory [ 22 ] or use variants of faceted search [ 27 ] to facilitate browsing . However , the decision mechanism that underlies the process of buying ∗
This work was supported by NSF grants IIS 0643847 and IIS 0643846 .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0632 4/11/03 . a product is different from the process of finding a relevant document or object . Customers do not simply seek to find something relevant to their search , but also try to identify the “ best ” deal that satisfies their specific desired criteria . Of course , it is difficult to quantify the notion of “ best ” product without trying to understand what the users are optimizing .
Today ’s product search engines provide only rudimentary ranking facilities for search results , typically using a single ranking criterion such as name , price , best selling ( volume of sales ) , or more recently , using customer review ratings . This approach has quite a few shortcomings . First , it ignores the multidimensional preferences of consumers . Second , it fails to leverage the information generated by the online communities , going beyond simple numerical ratings . Third , it hardly accounts for the heterogeneity of consumers . These drawbacks highly necessitate a recommendation strategy for products that can better model consumers’ underlying behavior , to capture their multidimensional preferences and heterogeneous tastes .
Recommender systems [ 1 ] could fix some of these problems but , to the best of our knowledge , existing techniques still have limitations . First , most recommendation mechanisms require consumers’ to log into the system . However , in reality many consumers browse only anonymously . Due to the lack of any meaningful , personalized recommendations , consumers do not feel compelled to login before purchasing . For example , on Travelocity , less than 2 % of the users login . But even when they login , before or after a purchase , consumers are reluctant to give their individual demographic information due to a variety of reasons ( eg , time constraints or privacy issues ) . Therefore , most context information is missing at the individual consumer level . Second , for goods with a low purchase frequency for an individual consumer , such as hotels , cars , real estate , or even electronics , there are few repeated purchases we could leverage towards building a predictive model ( ie , models based on collaborative filtering ) . Third , and potentially more importantly , as privacy issues become increasingly important , marketers may not be able to observe the individual level purchase history of each consumer ( or consumer segment ) . In contrast , aggregate purchase statistics ( eg , market share ) are easier to obtain . As a consequence , many algorithms that rely on knowing individuallevel behavior lack the ability of deriving consumer preferences from such aggregate data .
Alternative techniques try to identify the “ Pareto optimal ” set of results [ 3 ] . Unfortunately , the feasibility of this approach diminishes as the number of product characteristics increases . With more than five or six characteristics , the probability of a point being classified as “ Pareto optimal ” dramatically increases . As a consequence , the set of Pareto optimal results soon includes every product .
So , how to generate the “ best ” ranking of products when
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India327 consumers use multiple criteria ? For this purpose , we use two fundamental concepts from economics : utility and surplus . Utility is defined as a measure of the relative satisfaction from , or desirability of , consumption of various goods and services [ 17 ] . Each product provides consumers with an overall utility , which can be represented as the aggregation of weighted utilities of individual product characteristics . At the same time , the action of purchasing deprives the customer from the utility of the money that is spent for buying the product . With the assumption consumers rationality , the decision making process behind purchasing can be viewed as a process of utility maximization that takes into consideration both product quality and price .
Based on utility theory , we propose to design a new ranking system that uses demand estimation approaches from economics to generate the weights that consumers implicitly assign to each individual product characteristic . An important characteristic of this approach is that it does not require purchasing information for individual customers but rather relies on aggregate demand data . Based on the estimated weights , we then derive the surplus for each product , which represents how much extra utility one can obtain by purchasing a product . Finally , we rank all the products according to their surplus . We extend our ranking strategy to a personalized level , based on the distribution of consumers’ demographics .
We instantiate our research by building a search engine for hotels , based on a unique data set containing transactions from Nov . 2008 to Jan . 2009 for US hotels from a major travel web site . Our extensive user studies , using more than 15000 user evaluations , demonstrate an overwhelming preference for the ranking generated by our techniques , compared to a large number of existing strong baselines .
The major contributions of our research are the following : • We aim at making recommendations based on better understanding of the underlying “ causality ” of consumers’ purchase decisions . We present a user model that captures the decision making process of consumers , leading to a better understanding of consumer preferences . This is in contrast to building a “ black box ” style predictive model using machine learning algorithms . The causal model relaxes the assumption of a “ consistent environment ” across training and testing data sets and allows for changes in the modeling environment and predicts what should happen even when things change . • We infer personal preferences from aggregate data , in a privacy preserving manner . Our algorithm learns consumer preferences based on the largely anonymous , publicly observed distributions of consumer demographics as well as the observed aggregate level purchases ( ie , anonymous purchases and market shares in NYC and LA ) , not by learning from the identified behavior or demographics of each individual . • We propose a ranking method using the notion of surplus , which is not only theory driven but also generates systematically better results than current approaches . • We present an extensive experimental study : using six hotel markets , 15000 user evaluations , and using blind tests , we demonstrate that the generated rankings are significantly better than existing approaches .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . Section 2 gives the background . Section 3 explains how we estimate the model parameters , specifically how we compute the weights associated with product characteristics . Section 4 discusses how we build our basic rankings , and how we can personalize the presented results . Section 5 provides the setting for the experimental evaluation , and Section 6 discusses the results . Finally , Section 7 discusses related work and Section 8 concludes .
2 . THEORY MODEL
In this section , we provide the background economic theory that explains the basic concepts behind our model . We start by formalizing our problem and introducing the “ economic view ” of consumer rational choices . For better understanding , we introduce the following theoretical bases : utility theory , characteristics based theory , and surplus . 2.1 Problem Description
In general , our main goal is to identify the best products for a consumer . The example illustrates this :
Example 1 . Alice is looking for a hotel in New York City . She prefers a place of good quality but preferably costing not more than $300 per night . She conducts a faceted search ( eg , with respect to price and ratings ) : Unfortunately , with explicit price constrain , she may miss some “ great deal ” with much higher value but a slightly higher price . For instance , the 5 star Mandarin hotel happens to run a promotion that week with a discounted price of $333 per night . With the most luxurious environment and room services , the price for Mandarin would normally be around $900 per night otherwise . So , although the price is $33 above her budget , Alice would certainly be willing to ” grab the deal ” if this hotel appeared in the search result .
However , the problem is how can Alice know that such a deal exists ? In other words , how can we improve the search so that it can help Alice identify the “ best value ” products ? To examine this problem , we introduce the concept of surplus from economics . It is a measure of the benefits consumers derive from the exchange of goods [ 17 ] . If we can derive the surplus from each product , then by ranking the products according to their surplus , we can easily find the best product that provides the highest benefits to a consumer . Now the question is , how to derive the surplus so that we can quantify the gain from buying a product ? To do so , we introduce another concept : utility . 2.2 Choice Decisions and Utility Maximization Surplus can be derived from utility and rational choice theories . A fundamental notion in utility theory is that each consumer is endowed with an associated utility function U , which is “ a measure of the satisfaction from consumption of various goods and services ” [ 17 ] . The rationality assumption defines that each person tries to maximize its own utility.1
In the context of purchasing decisions , we assume that the consumer has access to a set of products , each product having a price . Informally , buying a product involves the exchange of money for a product . Therefore , to analyze the purchasing behavior we need two components for the utility function : • Utility of Product : The utility that the consumer will gain • Utility of Money : The utility that the consumer will lose by buying the product , and by paying the price for that product .
In general , a consumer buys the product that maximizes utility , and does so only if the utility gained by purchasing the product is higher than the corresponding , lost , utility of the money .
More formally , assume that the consumer has a choice across n products , and each product Xj has a price pj.2 Before the purchase , the consumer has some disposable income I that
1
While in reality consumers are not always rational , it is a convenient modeling framework that we adopt in this paper . As we demonstrate in the experimental evaluation , even imperfect theories generate good experimental results . 2
To allow for the possibility of not buying anything , we also add a dummy product X0 with price p0 = 0 , which corresponds to the choice of not buying anything .
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India328 generates a money utility Um(I ) . The decision to purchase Xj generates a product utility Up(Xj ) and , simultaneously , paying the price pj decreases the money utility to Um(I − pj ) . Assuming that the consumer strives to optimize its own utility , the purchased product Xj is the one that gives the highest increase in utility .
This approach naturally generates a ranking order for the products : The products that generate the highest increase in utility should be ranked on top . Thus , to compute the increase in utility , we need the gained utility of product Up(Xj ) and the lost utility of money Um(I ) − Um(I − pj ) . 221 Utility of Product Modeling the utility of a product can be traced back to Lancaster ’s characteristics theory [ 15 ] and Rosen ’s hedonic price model [ 24 ] . The hedonic price model assumes that differentiated products are described by vectors of objectively measured characteristics . In addition , the utility that a consumer has for a product can be decomposed into a set of utilities for each product characteristic . According to this model , a product X with K features can be represented by a K dimensional vector X = .x1 , . . . , xKfi , where xk represents the amount or quality of the k th characteristic of the product . The overall utility of product X is then modeled by the function Up(x1 , , xK ) .
One of the critical issues in this model is how to estimate the aggregated utility from the individual product characteristics . Based on the hedonic price model , we assume that each product characteristic is associated with a weight representing consumers’ desirability towards that characteristic . Under this assumption , we further refine the definition of overall utility to be the aggregation of weighted utilities from the observed individual characteristics and an unobserved characteristic ξ :
Up(X ) = Up(x1 , . . . , xK
) =
βk · xk
+ ξ ,
( 1 ) k=1 where βk represents the corresponding weight that the consumer assign to the k th characteristic xk . Notice that with ξ we capture the influence of all product characteristics that are not explicitly accounted in our model . So , a product that consumers perceive as high quality due to a characteristic not explicitly captured in our measurements ( eg brand name ) , will end up having a high value of ξ . 222 Utility of Money Given the utility of a product , to analyze consumers’ motivation to trade money for the product , it is also necessary to understand the utility of money . This concept is defined as consumers’ happiness for owning monetary capital . Based on Alfred Marshall ’s well established principles [ 17 ] , utility of money has two basic properties : increasing and concave . • Increasing : An increase in the amount of money will cause an increase in the utility of money . In other words , the more money someone has , the better . • Concave : The increase in utility , or marginal utility of money , is diminishing as the amount of money increases . Based on these properties , an example of the utility function for money is shown in Figure 1 . Note that with the concave form of the utility function , the slope is decreasing hence the marginal utility of money is diminishing . So , $100 is more important for someone with $1000 than for someone with $100,000 . This also implies that consumers are risk averse under normal circumstances . This is because with the same probability to win or lose , losingN dollars in the assets will cause a drop in the utility larger than the boost while winning N dollars .
K .
Figure 1 : A concave , bounded , increasing function for “ 1utility of money , ” approximated with a linear function for small changes
The concave assumption can be relaxed when the changes in money are small . For most transactions , we often assume that the marginal utility of money is approximately constant . More formally , we assume that a consumer with income I receives a money utility Um(I ) . Paying the price p decreases the money utility to Um(I − p ) . Assuming that p is relatively small compared to the disposable income I , the marginal utility of money remains mostly constant in the interval [ I − p , I ] [ 17 ] . Under this assumption , the utility of money that the consumer will lose by paying the price p for product X , can be thereby represented in a quasi linear form as follows :
Um(I ) − Um(I − p ) = α · I − α · ( I − p ) = α(I ) · p ,
( 2 ) where α(I ) denotes the marginal utility for money for someone with disposable income I .
223 Challenges Given the utility of product and utility of money , we can now derive the utility surplus as the increase in utility , or excess utility , after the purchase . More formally , the mathematical definition for utility surplus is provided as follows .
Definition 1 . : The utility surplus ( U S ) , for a consumer with disposable income I , when buying a product X priced at p , is thegain in the utility of product Up minus the loss in the utility of money Um .
U S = Up(X ) − [ Um(I ) − Um(I − p ) ] + εi +
+ ξ
−
= j
α · pfi'ff
βk · xk 'ff
. fi k
Utility of money
Stochastic error
εfi'ff
( 3 )
Utility of product
Note that ξ is a product specific disturbance scalar summarizing unobserved characteristics of product X , andε is a stochastic error term that is assumed to be iid across products and consumers in the selection process and is usually assumed to follow a Type I extreme value distribution . 2
In this theory model , the key challenge is to estimate the corresponding weights assigned by consumers towards money and product dimensions . We discuss this next .
3 . ESTIMATION OF MODEL PARAMETERS In the previous section , we have introduced the background of utility theory , characteristics based theory , and surplus . Recall that our main goal is to identify the best product ( with the highest surplus ) for a consumer . This is complicated by the fact that utility , and therefore surplus , of consumers is private
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India329 and not directly observable . As a result , there exists no “ true observed utility ” that we can compare with our “ model predicted utility . ” Instead we need to observe the behavior of consumers and estimate the values of these latent parameters that explain best the consumer behavior . Furthermore , since we cannot assume that we can observe in detail the behavior of individual consumers , nor can we explicitly ask each consumer for their personal “ tastes ” ( eg , choice of a product , “ weight ” assigned to a product feature , etc. ) , we need to extract utilities and derive individual preferences by using aggregate data .
The basic idea is the following : If we know the utilities of different products for a consumer , we can estimate the demand for different products , as consumers will behave according to their utility encoded preferences . So , if we observe the demand for various products , we can infer the preferences of the consumer population for different product aspects . Observing product demand is easier than it sounds : For example , we can observe salesrank on Amazon.com and transform salesrank to demand [ 8 ] , or we can directly observe the transactions at marketplaces such as eBay and Amazon [ 11 ] , or we can simply get directly anonymous transactions from a merchant .
In this section , we discuss how we estimate the parameters using aggregate demand data . First , in Section 3.1 we discuss the simpler case where consumers are homogeneous and have similar preferences . Then in Section 3.2 we analyze the more realistic case where consumers have different preferences , which depend on their demographics and purchase context . 3.1 Homogeneous Consumers : Logit Model 311 Model Specification The basic Logit model , introduced by McFadden [ 18 , 19 ] , assumes that consumers have “ homogeneous preferences ” towards product characteristics . In other words , the weights β and α are common across all consumers . Thus , following Definition 1 , the utility surplus for consumer i and product j is written as : j = Vj(α , β ) +ε i j .
U Si k βk · xk
( 4 ) j + ξj − α · pj . Notice that we where Vj(α , β ) = separate preferences towards product j , captured by Vj(α , β ) , from non deterministic aspects of individual consumer behavior , captured by the error term εi j .
According to the assumption of consumer rationality for utility maximization , the consumer chooses the product that maximizes utility surplus . Note that the choice is stochastic , given the error term εi j . Therefore , in our scenario , the probability that a consumer i chooses product j is :
P ( choicei j ) =P ( U Si j > U Si l )
( ∀l in the same market , l ff= j ) .
Solving this equation , we have [ 18 , 19 ] :
P ( choicei j ) =
1 + exp ( Vj(α , β ) ) l exp ( Vl(α , β ) )
.
( 5 )
( 6 )
In the homogeneous case , all consumers have the same α and β and this probability is proportional to the market share3 of project j ( the consumer specific error term εi j has disappeared ) . Notice that the problem of estimating preferences can be now expressed as a logistic regression problem . What is worthwhile to mention is that this solution is not an adhoc choice , but is a direct derivation from a theory driven user behavior model . Daniel McFadden got the Nobel prize in Economics in 2000
3
Market share is defined as the percentage of total sales volume in a market captured by a brand , product , or firm . for establishing the connection between logistic regression and models of discrete user choice . 312 Estimation Methodology Given Equation 6 , we can estimate consumer preferences ( expressed by the parameters α and β ) , by observing market shares of the different products . One challenge is that we need to know the “ demand ” for the “ buy nothing ” option in order to estimate properly the value P ( choicej ) in Equation 6 .
Specifically , we set P ( choicej ) = dobs is the observed demand for product j and dtotal is “ total demand , ” which includes the demand for the buy nothing option.4 Taking logs in Equation 6 and solving the system [ 5 ] : j /dtotal , where dobs j ln(dobs j
) = −α · pj +
βk · xk j + ξj .
( 7 )
. k
Such a model can be easily solved to acquire the parameters β and α using any linear regression method , such as ordinary least squares ( OLS ) .
Example 2 . Assume that we have a hotel market in New York , with two hotels : Hotel M ( Mandarin Oriental , 5 star ) , and Hotel D ( Doubletree , 3 star ) . From day 1 to 3 , we observe that the price for Mandarin Oriental is $500 , $480 and $530 per night . We also observe a corresponding demand of 400 , 470 , and 320 bookings , respectively . Meanwhile , the price for Doubletree is $250 , $270 and $225 per night , and its corresponding demand is 600 , 530 and 680 bookings . Using our model , we can write down the regression equations : ln(bookings ) = −α · price + β · stars + fhotel +
( 8 )
Here , we divide the unobservable ξ into a fixed effectf that is common for the same hotel ( effectively a dummy binary variable ) , and an iid random error term . Using OLS , we get α = 0.0067 and β = 0.64 which express the sensitivity of the consumers to price and their preference for “ stars , ” respectively .
Of course , the assumption of homogeneity of consumer preferences is only an ideal case . In reality , consumers are different and their tastes vary . Next , we examine the case where the consumer have heterogeneous tastes . 3.2 Heterogeneous Consumers : BLP Model
In reality , consumers’ preferences are heterogeneous . In principle , we could observe a customer for a long period of time and then use the Logit scheme described above to extract the preferences of each customer . Unfortunately , we can rarely observe individual behavior over long periods of time , so it is difficult to estimate the individual preferences for each consumer .
To allow preferences to vary , though , we can assume that preferences are a function of consumer demographics and purchase context . For example , everything else being equal , honeymooners may appreciate a hotel in a romantic remote setting , while business travelers may appreciate more a location with easy access to public transportation . We can therefore characterize each customer by a set of demographic characteristics ( eg , age , gender , travel purpose , etc . ) and make the preference coefficients β to be a function of these demographics .
In this case , the overall preference distribution of the whole population is a mixture of preference distribution of the various consumer types in the population . The main challenge in this setting is that we only observe overall demand , and not the demand from each separate consumer group . So , the question
4
Since dtotal , appears as a constant in across all equations , the absolute value of dtotal and of the “ buy nothing ” demand d0 is not relevant to the the parameter estimation and can be ignored .
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India330 becomes : How can we find the preferences of various consumer types by simply observing the aggregate product demand ?
321 Model Specification We solve this issue by monitoring demand for similar products in different markets , for which we know the distribution of consumers . Since the same product will have the same demand from a given demographic group , any differences in demand across markets can be attributed to the different demographics . The following simplified example illustrates the intuition behind this approach .
Example 3 . Consider an example where we have two cities , A and B and two types of consumers : business trip travelers and family trip travelers . City A is a business destination with 80 % of the travelers being business travelers and 20 % families . City B is mainly a family destination with 10 % business travelers and 90 % family travelers . In city A , we have two hotels : Hilton ( A1 ) and Doubletree ( A2 ) . In city B , we have again two hotels : Hilton ( B1 ) and Doubletree ( B2 ) . Hilton hotels ( A1 , B1 ) have a conference center but no pool , and Doubletree hotels ( A2 , B2 ) have a pool but no conference center . To keep the example simple , we assume that preferences of consumers do not change when they travel in different cities and that prices are the same . By observing demand , we see that demand in city A ( business destination ) is 820 bookings per day for Hilton and 120 bookings for Doubletree . In city B ( family destination ) the demand is 540 bookings per day for Hilton and 460 bookings for Doubletree . Since the hotels are identical in the two cities , the changes in demand must be the result of different traveler demographics , hinting that a conference center is desirable for business travelers .
For this paper , to extract consumer preferences , we use the Random Coefficient Model [ 6 ] , introduced by Berry , Levinsohn , and Pakes , and commonly referred to as the BLP model . This model extends the basic Logit model by assuming the coefficients β and α in Equation 6 to bedemographic specific . Let T i be a vector representing consumer type , which can specify a particular purchase context , age group , and so on . In the simplest case , we can have a binary variable for each consumer group . With the preferences being now demographic specific , we write the utility surplus for consumer i , of type T i , when buying product . j , with features .x1 jfi , at price pj to be : ) · xk j − α(I i
) · pj + ξj + εi j . j , . . . , xk
U Si
( T i j =
( 9 )
βk k
)
(
For the Logit model , in Equation 4 , we used V ( α , β ) to stylistically separate the population preferences from the idiosyncratic behavior of the consumer . We now do the same for the BLP model , separating the mean population preferences from the demographic specific preferences . So , we write βk(T i ) = ¯βk + βk , where ¯βk is the mean of the preference distribuT T i tion , and βk T is a vector capturing the variation in the preferences from different consumer types . Similarly , we model αi as a function of income I i : α(I i ) = . Notice that we assume αI and βT to be independent . We rewrite U Si
¯α + αI I i j as :
(
)
U Si j =
¯βk + βk
T T i j + ξj − ff · xk
¯α + αI I i
· pj + εi j .
( 10 )
. fi k
We use δj = − ¯α · pj + j + ξj to represent the mean utility of product j . Then , as in the Logit model , we derive the choice probability for j , by integrating over the population
¯βk · xk k
' demographic and income distributions P ( T ) andP ( I ) :
. fi
' ff
P ( choicej ) = exp
'
δj + αI I ipj +
1 + l exp
δl + αI I ipl +
' k βk T T ixk k βk j
T T ixk l dP ( T ) dP ( I )
( 11 ) We explain next how we compute this integral and how we extract the parameters that capture the population preferences . 322 Estimation Methodology With the model in hand , now we discuss how we identify the unknown parameters δj , αI and βT . We apply methods similar to those used in [ 6 , 7 ] and [ 25 ] . In general , we estimated the parameters by searching the parameter space in an iterative manner , using the following steps : 1 . Initialize the parameters δ(0 ) and θ(0 ) = ( α(0 )
, β(0 )
T ) using
I j a random choice of values .
2 . Estimate market shares sj given θ and δ . 3 . Estimate most likely mean utility δj given the market shares .
4 . Find the best parameters ¯α and ¯βk that minimize the unexplained remaining error in δj and evaluate the generalized method of moments ( GMM ) objective function .
5 . Use Nelder Mead Simplex algorithm to update the parameter values for θ = ( αI , βT ) and go to Step 2 , until minimizing the GMM objective function .
We describe the steps in more detail below . j
Calculating market share sj : To form the market equations ( ie , model predicted market share = observed market share ) , we need two things : the right hand side sobs that can be observed from our transaction data , and the left hand side sj , derived from Equation 11 . Unfortunately , the integral in Equation 11 is not analytic . To approximate this integral , we proceed as follows : Given the demographic distribution , we “ generate ” a consumer randomly , with a known demographic and income and , therefore , known preferences . Then , using the standard Logit model ( Equation 6 ) , we generate the choice of the product for this consumer . For example , assume that we have the following joint demographic distribution of travel purpose and age group :
Age ≤ 45 Age > 45
Business F amily
15 % 30 %
15 % 40 % ff
.
In this case , we have a 40 % probability of generating a “ sample consumer ” with family travel purpose and age above 45 . By repeating the process and obtaining NT samples of demographics T i and NI samples of income I i , we can compute an unbiased estimator of the Equation 11 integral:5 sj ( δj|θ ) ∼ 1 NI
1 NT
NI(
NT(
Ii
T i
1 + fi
' ff exp
'
δj + αI I ipj + l exp
δl + αI I ipl +
' T T ikxk k βk k βk j
T T ikxk l
.
( 12 ) Estimate mean utility δj : Since we know how to compute market shares from the parameters , we can now find a value of δj that best “ fits ” the observed market shares . ( Notice that , conditional on θ = ( αI , βT ) , market share sj can be viewed as a function of the mean utility δj . ) We apply the contraction mapping method recommended by Berry [ 6 ] , which suggests computing the value for δ using an iterative approach :
δ(t+1 ) j
= δ(t ) j + ( ln(sobs j
) − ln(sj(δ(t ) j
|θ)) ) .
( 13 )
The procedure is guaranteed to converge [ 6 ] and find δj that satisfies sj(δj|θ ) = sobs
. j
5
We use NT = NI = 100 in our study .
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India331 Minimize error , evaluate GMM objective function : Once we have the market shares and the mean utility parameters , we need to find the most likely demographic specific weight deviations θ = ( αI , βT ) . Of course , different values for θ = ( αI , βT ) will lead to different mean utilities and market shares . Hence , we need to find a criterion for identifying the best solution . We perform this in two steps : First , we use Instrumental Variables ( IV ) [ 13 ] to estimate the mean weights ¯α and ¯β , and extract the unobserved error term ξ from the mean utility function :
ξ(θ ) = δ(θ ) − (
¯βk · xk − ¯α · p ) .
( 14 )
. k
In our study , we use the average price of the “ same star rating ” hotels in other markets as the instrument for price of a particular hotel to ensure that we do not have a correlation of the error term with a variable in our regression . Then , using the generalized method of moments,6 we base our analysis on the moment condition that the mean of the unobserved error term ξ is uncorrelated with the instrumental variable IV . Thus , in our case we are trying to minimize the objection function :
GM M obj(θ ) =E [ ξfi
( θ ) · IV ] .
( 15 )
Iterate until GMM objective function is minimized : Once we identify the mean utility for a given set of weight deviations θ = ( αI , βT ) , we note the value of the GMM objective function GM M obj(θ ) . Then , we use the Nelder Mead Simplex algorithm [ 21 ] to search for the optimal θ∗ T ) that minimizes the GMM objective function.7 This whole process eventually8 identifies the heterogeneous weights that different I·I i , and those consumers assign to product price , α(I i ) = ¯α∗ T · T i . being assigned to product characteristics , β(T i ) = ¯β∗
= ( α∗
+ β∗
I , β∗
+α∗ conf·1+βF conf · 1 +β B
Example 4 . To illustrate this better , let ’s again look at Example 3 , We know that , for business traveler , the utility surplus from hotel A1 ( conference center , no pool ) is U SB(A1 ) = pool · 0 ) + , and for family travelers , the correδA1 + ( βB pool·0)+ . sponding utility surplus is U SF ( A1 ) =δ A1 +(βF By βB• we denote the deviations from the population mean for business travelers towards “ conference center ” and “ pool ” and by βF• we denote the respective deviations for family travelers . Similarly , we can write down the utilities for hotels A2 , B1 and B2 . Following the estimation steps discussed above , we discover that family travelers have βF pool = 05 In other words , they have the same preferences regarding a pool and conference center . On the other hand , for business travelers , their preference towards “ conference center ” is much higher than towards “ pool , ” with βP pool = 0.1 , respectively . conf = 0.9 and βF conf = βF
Next , we explain how we leverage the above knowledge for building a better ranking model for product search .
4 . RANKING USING UTILITY SURPLUS
So far , we have described models for inferring the preferences of consumers using a utility model and aggregate demand data .
6
Due to space restrictions , we do not describe the GMM method in detail here . We refer the interested reader to [ 12 ] for further explanations . 7
This approach is typically better than just following the function gradient . See http://linuxmathtifrresin/programming doc/gsl/gsl ref_ 34.html for an open source implementation and details . 8
In our application , the computational time for each call ( ie , the inner loop ) to the GMM objective function to solve for the mean utility is around 3 minutes on average . The global parameter search ( ie , the outer loop ) by minimizing the GMM objective function takes an average of 20 calls . The total time for the estimation is around 40 60 minutes .
These models use the concept of surplus mainly as a conceptual tool to infer consumer preferences towards different product characteristics . In our work , the concept of surplus is directly used to find the product that is the “ best value for money ” for a given consumer . This simple idea is at the core of our work and as we will demonstrate in the experimental evaluation , it can lead to significant improvements in the quality of product search results .
Surplus based Ranking : The first approach is to use the estimated surplus for each product and rank the available products in decreasing order of surplus . Therefore , at the top we will have the products that are the “ best value ” for consumers , for a given price . We define Consumer Surplus for consumer i from product j as the “ normalized utility surplus , ” the surplus ¯U S(i ) j divided by the mean marginal utility of money ¯α .
. t
CSj = N ormalized U Sj =
¯U S(i ) j .
1 ¯α
( 16 )
In the general , non personalized case , if we were ranking products based on the “ training ” demand data then , in theory , our product ranking would be similar to a “ best selling ” ranking : The products that generate that largest surplus are the ones that would also generate the highest sales . ( Notice that rational consumers prefer the products that generate the highest surplus . ) However , when ranking products that are available today , the surplus based ranking may be different for a variety of reasons : the product price may have changed , making some products a better “ value for money , ” we may have a new product in the market , or the value of some product features may be time dependent ( eg , the value of being next to a lake may be positive during warm weather and negative during the winter ) . Personalized Surplus based Ranking : In Section 3.2 we described how to estimate the value that consumers place on different product features , based on their own demographics and purchase context . The main outcome is that the value ( surplus ) that consumers get from a particular purchase is different than the average surplus for the overall population . This means that even the best possible ranking for the general population may not be optimal for an individual consumer .
Therefore , we extend our ranking to include a personalization component . To compute the personalized surplus , we can ask the consumer to give the appropriate demographic characteristics and purchase context ( eg , 35 49 years old , male , $100K income , business traveler ) and then use the corresponding deviation matrices βT and αI . It is then easy to compute the personalized “ value for money ” for this individual consumer , and rank products accordingly . Notice that the consumer has the incentive to reveal demographics in this scenario .
Example 5 . For better understanding , let ’s re consider the previous setting of the two hotels A1 and A2 for city A from Examples 3 and 4 . Suppose that two consumers are traveling to city A on the same day : C1 , a 35 49 years old business traveler , with an income $50,000 100,000 , and C2 , a 25 34 years old family traveler , with an income less than $50,000 . Since these two travelers belong to different demographic groups and travel with different purposes , their preferences towards “ conference center ” and “ pool ” are different . Thus , the surplus they obtain from A1 and A2 varies . For example , the business traveler gets higher utility from A1 due to the specialized conference center services , whereas the family traveler find A2 more valuable due to the pool and price . This personalization component allows each consumer to identify the product that is the “ best value for the money . ”
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India332 5 . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
For our experimental evaluation , we instantiated our model framework using as target application the area of hotel search . Demand data : Travelocity , a large hotel booking system , provided us with the set of all hotel booking transactions , for 2117 randomly selected hotels over the United States . The transactions covered the period from November 2008 until January 2009 . Based on the given transactions , we were able to compute the market shares of each hotel in each local market ( ie , metropolitan area ) , for each day .
Consumer demographics data : To measure the demographics of consumers in each target market , we used data provided by TripAdvisor : The consumers that write reviews about hotels on TripAdvisor also identify their travel purpose ( business , romance , family , friend , other ) and age group ( 1317 , 18 24 , 25 34 , 35 49 , 50 64 , 65+).9 Based on the data , we were able to identify the types of travelers for each destination . To ensure the quality of the data , we computed the JensenShannon divergence of the demographic distribution extracted from TripAdvisor with the corresponding traveler information from Travelocity , whenever available . The distributions were very similar with an average divergence of just 003
Hotel location characteristics : We used geo mapping search tools ( in particular the Bing Maps API ) and social geotags ( from geonames.org ) to identify the “ external amenities ” ( eg , shops , bars , etc ) and public transportation in the area around the hotel . We also used image classification together with Mechanical Turk to examine whether there is a nearby beach , a nearby lake , a downtown area , and whether the hotel is close to a highway [ 16 ] . We extracted these characteristics within an area of 0.25 mile , 0.5 mile , 1 mile , and 2 mile radius . Hotel service characteristics : We extracted the service characteristics from the reviews from TripAdvisor . Each review provides a general rating of the hotel , plus provides seven individual ratings on the following service characteristics : Value , Room , Location , Cleanliness , Service , Check in , and Business Service . We used the average ratings of each hotel across these seven characteristics , together with the general review rating.10 We also used the hotel description information from Travelocity , Orbitz , and Expedia , to identify the “ internal amenities ” ( eg , pool , spa , etc . )
Stylistic characteristics of online reviews : Finally , we extracted indicators that measure not the polarity of the reviews but rather some stylistic characteristics of the available reviews . We examined 2 text style features : “ subjectivity ” and “ readability ” of reviews [ 10 ] . Also , since prior research suggested that disclosure of identity information is associated with changes in subsequent online product sales [ 9 ] , we measured the percentage of reviewers for each hotel who reveal their real name or location information on their profile web pages .
Figure 2 shows the histograms of the important continuous variables , together with their correlations and scatterplots that illustrate the joint distributions of the variable pairs .
6 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In the previous section , we have discussed how we retrieved different hotel characteristics through various sources . In this
9
There are other demographics available as well , such as “ gender , ” “ traveler residence location , ” “ traveling with , ” “ usual travel style ” and “ usual travel purpose . ” However , these fields were relatively sparsely populated . Therefore , we did not use these variables for our study . 10 We have also extracted service related variables by mining directly the text of the reviews [ 2 , 23 ] but the additional information did not improve our model in a statistically significant manner .
Variable
Coef . Variable
Price Avg review length # of ext . amenities Readability ( SMOG ) Spelling errors Avg . Subjectivity Dev . Subjectivity % of non anon reviews Hotel Class Review Rating # of rooms Review Clean Review Checkin
Lake
0.1157 # of competitors 0.0291 Crime 0.0013 # of int . amenities 0.2308 Beach 0.0764 1.3468 Transport 2.9106 Highway 0.0892 Downtown 0.0317 # of reviews 0.0835 Review Value 0.1525 Review Location 0.1309 Review Service 0.1151 Review Bus Service
Coef .
0.0930 0.4226 0.0048 0.5498 0.1884 0.00005 0.2082 0.0161 0.3897 0.2988 0.0845 0.0105 0.1432
Table 1 : Estimation results for mean weights ( listing only statistically significant coefficients , with p <0 .05 ) section , we present our findings from the empirical estimation . First , in Section 6.1 we present the results on estimating the model parameters , which correspond to the consumer preferences . Then , in Section 6.2 , we show that our models generate significantly better rankings than the existing baselines .
6.1
Interpretation of Estimated Weights
We present only the estimation results for the BLP model , as the results are strongly superior and closer to reality compared to the results from the Logit model .
Results for general population : Table 1 shows the estimation results for the mean weights , ¯α and ¯β , for the different variables in our model that have a statistically significant effect on demand . From the results , “ beach ” presents the highest positive impact compared to the other location characteristics . We also found significant impacts from service characteristics and quality characteristics of word of mouth . Meanwhile , “ price ” presents a positive sign , which is consistent with the “ law of demand ” in reality and indicates that the higher the price , the lower the demand . The negative sign on subjectivity means that customers are positive influenced by reviews that describe factual characteristics of hotels , and do not want to read personal stories of reviewers . ( Notice that this is independent of the review polarity . ) Notable is the negative sign on the review value rating , which indicates that hotels that receive a “ high value ” rating have lower demand . This is not surprising : these are the hotels that are “ undiscovered ” and therefore have lower demand and prices than otherwise expected .
Results for specific demographics : We also obtained the demographic specific deviations from the mean . We used purchase context and age group as the demographic dimensions for our experiments ( see Section 5 ) .
The value of demographic specific deviation shows the “ sensitivity of evaluation ” for a product characteristic , within a particular consumer type . For example , customers on a romantic trip are more sensitive to hotel characteristics like “ class ” or “ close to a beach ” , but they are less interested to know whether or not the hotel is close to highway exits . On the contrary , customers on a business trip are more sensitive to hotel characteristics like “ internal amenities ” or “ easy access to highway ” , whereas they are likely influenced by the star rating of the hotel , compared to romance travelers . Figure 3 shows in details the evaluation deviations among different types .
We also examined age specific preferences . Again , we found strong evidence for the deviation of weights associated with different age groups . Especially for “ reviewer overall rating ” and “ review count ” , the deviations become quite striking . Figure 4 , shows that customers from age 18 to 34 tend to be more sensitive to online reviews , compared to older ages . In particular , they
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India333 Figure 2 : Diagonal : Histograms for the continuous variables in the data set ( market share , price , ext amenities , value , room , location , checkin , service , business service , rooms , class , crime , int amenities , review count , cleaningness , tripadvisor rating ) . Top : correlations of variable pairs . Bottom : scatterplots with ellipses for joint distributions of variable pairs .
City
TripAdvisor Travelocity Booked Low to High to
Most
Price
Price
77 % 72 % 79 % 83 % 61 % 61 %
63 % 58 % 57 % 81 % 69 % 80 %
61 % 71 % 65 % 62 % 60 % 69 %
High
57 % 59 % 62 % 63 % 78 % 66 %
Low
71 % 84 % 70 % 73 % 69 % 79 %
New York
Los Angeles San Francisco
Orlando
New Orleans Salt Lake City
Significance
Level
Hotel Class
88 % 89 % 82 % 79 % 80 % 83 %
# of
# of
Diversity : Reviews Rooms Amenities Price with
# of
76 % 87 % 68 % 73 % 72 % 73 %
89 % 86 % 79 % 79 % 91 % 70 %
60 % 69 % 79 % 61 % 58 % 76 %
Class
80 % 76 % 72 % 79 % 85 % 79 % p = 0.05 ≥ 56 % p = 0 .01 ≥ 59 % p = 0.001 ≥ 61 %
( Sign Test N = 200 )
Table 2 : Consumer surplus based ranking vs . existing baselines . The percentage shows the number of users than indicated preference for the ranking of our surplus based ranking , compared to the corresponding baseline ranking . The comparison was a pairwise blind comparison of rankings of 10 hotels . Each cell corresponds to a separate test using N = 200 users , for a total of 12000 comparisons . Across all comparisons , our ranking fares better in a statistically significant manner . Given the noise inherent in the Mechanical Turk ratings ( some users may give random answers in such tests and vote equally for both approaches ) , the results show a strong superiority of the surplus based rankings . are 10 15 times more sensitive to online reviews compared to the age demographic of “ 65+ year old . ”
6.2 User Study : Ranking Comparison
With the estimated weights , we can derive the consumer surplus for each product ( hotel ) , which can then be used to generate rankings . In our experiments , we used six metropolitan areas for which we generated hotel rankings ( we used big cities , so that we have a meaningful number of hotels to rank ) .
Rankings based on the average consumer surplus vs . existing ranking baselines . : We used 10 different , existing rankings as a baseline for comparison , and we compared each baseline against our own surplus based ranking . For each city and each ranking baseline , we performed pair wise blind tests , asking 200 anonymous users on Amazon Mechanical Turk11 to compare pairs of rankings and tell us which of the hotel ranking lists they prefer better . In all 60 comparisons , each using 200
11
We restricted participation to US based users . Mechanical Turk users are representative of the general US population . users , the majority of users preferred our surplus based rankings , in a statistically significant manner . Given that some MTurk users may be giving us random results , we expect the “ real ” performance of our algorithm to be even better than indicated in the numbers in Table 2 .
Qualitative analysis : We also asked consumers why they chose a particular ranking , to better understand how users interpret the surplus based ranking . Many users that liked our ranking indicated that our ranking promotes the idea that price is not the only main factor in rating the quality of products . Moreover , users strongly preferred the diversity provided by our ranking across both price and quality . In contrast , the other ranking approaches tend to list products of only one type ( eg , hotels with high review ratings are often very expensive hotels and the “ most booked ” are often 3 star mediocre hotels ) . We should emphasize at this point that our algorithm does not try explicitly to introduce diversity in the results . This is a direct outcome of our economic based approach : If a segment of the market is systematically underpriced ( hence making the “ best deals ” a homogeneous list ) , then we expect the market forces to fix this
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India334 ROMANCE ROMANCE
BUSINESS BUSINESS
0.1 0.1 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0 0
0.1 0.1 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0 01 0
FAMILY FAMILY
0.1 0.1 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0 0
0.1 0.1 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0
FRIENDS FRIENDS
Figure 3 : Sensitivity towards different hotel characteristics for Romance , Business , Family , and Friends getaway travelers . We present absolute values , without polarity , to illustrate sensitivity on different product characteristics .
Personalized rankings vs . rankings using average consumer surplus : We generated a few personalized rankings for different cities based on consumer specific attributes , such as travel purpose . We conducted blind comparisons in a pair wise fashion , based on 200 anonymous AMT users , for each comparison . Since we did not know the demographics of the users , we asked the MTurk workers to “ select the hotel ranking you would prefer to use while trying to help a business traveler to book a hotel in New York ” 12 .
Based on the user responses , customers strongly preferred the personalized ranking that was tailored for a particular travel purpose using our technique ( p = 0.01 , sign test ) . For example , in our NYC experiment , 77 % customers indicated their preferences towards the business oriented ranking ( ranking tailored for business travelers ) rather than the average level ranking , and 81 % customers did so towards the family oriented ranking ( ranking tailored for family trip travelers ) . The results were similar across all tests .
Qualitative analysis : When we asked users’ opinions for these comparisons , users did not bring up the issue of diversity . This was expected , as even our non personalized rankings were already diverse . Instead , we found customers considering the context and expectations for a given trip . For example , users indicated that hotels for business trips do not necessarily need to be luxury , but need to provide a quiet business environment and easy access to highway or public transportation . On the other hand , for romantic trips , users strongly preferred the recommendations for luxury services with higher class rating . These results highly dovetail with our empirical estimation , suggesting that our ranking model indeed captures consumers’ real purchase motivation behind the scene .
7 . RELATED WORK
Our research is related to the work in online recommender systems , in particular , the content based systems that recommend items similar to those that a user liked in the past ( eg , [ 20] ) . Content based systems learn user preferences from the individual level profiles elicited from users explicitly ( eg , through questionnaires or identified transactional behaviors ) . To compute a “ content based weight vector ” , a variety of techniques were used , such as the Rocchio algorithm , Bayesian classifiers , and Winnow algorithm [ 1 ] . Our research also leverages work on
12
Of course , we substituted “ business traveler’ and “ New York ” with the appropriate values for each comparison .
Figure 4 : Sensitivity of different age groups to review rating & review count : Ages groups 18 24 and 2534 pay more attention to online reviews compared to other age groups .
City
Business Romance Family Friends
New York
Los Angeles
DC
Orlando
77 % 70 % 79 % 87 %
67 % 65 % 63 % 85 %
81 % 78 % 70 % 91 %
80 % 69 % 75 % 84 %
Table 3 : Personalized surplus based rankings vs . nonpersonalized , surplus based rankings . The percentage shows the number of users than indicated preference for the personalized ranking compared to the general , non personalized surplus based ranking . Each cell of the table corresponds to N = 200 users , for a total of 3200 comparisons . In all cases , the personalized approach is better at the p = 0.1 % level ( sign test ) . irregularity by increasing demand ( and hence prices ) for these products .
To test if we can generate same satisfaction levels by introducing diversity artificially , we also generated an additional “ diversity ranking ” using combined criteria of “ price ” and “ hotel class . ” We interlaced the top 5 hotels with “ the lowest price ” and the top 5 hotels with “ the highest ratings . ” The comparison of this “ diversity enabled ” ranking against our algorithm also indicated that surplus based diversity is better than an artificially introduced diversity metric : In all cases , users strongly preferred the surplus based ranking , as shown in the last column of Table 2 .
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India335 References [ 1 ] Adomavicius , G . , and Tuzhilin , A . Toward the next generation of recommender systems : A survey of the state of the art and possible extensions . IEEE TKDE 17 ( 2005 ) , 734–749 .
[ 2 ] Archak , N . , Ghose , A . , and Ipeirotis , P . G . Show me the money! : deriving the pricing power of product features by mining consumer reviews . In KDD ( 2007 ) , pp . 56–65 .
[ 3 ] Balke , W T , and G¨untzer , U . Multi objective query processing for database systems . In Proceedings of 28th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases ( VLDB ) ( 2004 ) , pp . 936–947 .
[ 4 ] Bao , S . , Wu , X . , Fei , B . , Xue , G . , Su , Z . , and Yu , Y . Optimizing web search using social annotations . In WWW ( 2007 ) .
[ 5 ] Berry , S . Estimating discrete choice models of product differentia tion . RAND Journal of Economics 25 ( 1994 ) , 242–262 .
[ 6 ] Berry , S . , Levinsohn , J . , and Pakes , A . Automobile prices in market equilibrium . Econometrica 63 ( 1995 ) , 841–890 .
[ 7 ] Berry , S . , and Pakes , A . The pure characteristics demand model .
International Economic Review 48 ( 2007 ) , 1193–1225 .
[ 8 ] Chevalier , J . A . , and Goolsbee , A . Measuring prices and price competition online : Amazon.com and BarnesandNoblecom Quantitative Marketing and Economics 1 , 2 ( 2003 ) , 203–222 .
[ 9 ] Forman , C . , Ghose , A . , and Wiesenfeld , B . Examining the relationship between reviews and sales : the role of reviewer identity disclosure in electronic markets . ISR 19 , 3 ( 2008 ) , 291–313 .
[ 10 ] Ghose , A . , , and Ipeirotis , P . G . Estimating the helpfulness and economic impact of product reviews : Mining text and reviewer characteristics . IEEE TKDE ( 2010 ) .
[ 11 ] Ghose , A . , Ipeirotis , P . , and Sundararajan , A . Opinion mining using econometrics : A case study on reputation systems . In ACL ( 2007 ) .
[ 12 ] Hansen , L . Large sample properties of generalized method of mo ments estimators . Econometrica 50 , 4 ( 1982 ) , 1029–1054 .
[ 13 ] Heckman , J . Instrumental variables : A study of implicit behavioral assumptions used in making program evaluations . Journal of Human Resources 32 , 3 ( 1997 ) , 441–462 .
[ 14 ] Jin , R . , Valizadegan , H . , and Li , H . Ranking refinement and its application to information retrieval . In WWW ( 2008 ) .
[ 15 ] Lancaster , K . Consumer Demand : A New Approach . Columbia
University Press , New York , 1971 .
[ 16 ] Li , B . , Ghose , A . , and Ipeirotis , P . G . Stay elsewhere ? improving local search for hotels using econometric modeling and image classification . In WebDB ( 2008 ) .
[ 17 ] Marshall , A . Principles of Economics , Eighth ed . Macmillan and
Co . , London , 1926 .
[ 18 ] McFadden , D . Conditional Logit Analysis of Qualitative Choice
Behavior . Academic Press , New York , 1974 .
[ 19 ] McFadden , D . , and Train , K . Mixed MNL models of discrete re sponse . Journal of Applied Econometrics 15 , 5 ( 2000 ) , 447–470 .
[ 20 ] Mooney , R . , and Roy , L . Content based book recommending using learning for text categorization . In ACM SIGIR Workshop Recommender Systems : Algorithms and Evaluation ( 1999 ) .
[ 21 ] Nelder , J . A . , and Mead , R . A simplex method for function mini mization . The Computer Journal 7 , 4 ( 1965 ) .
[ 22 ] Nie , Z . , Wen , J R , and Ma , W Y Webpage understanding : beyond page level search . SIGMOD Record 37 , 4 ( 2008 ) , 48–54 .
[ 23 ] Pang , B . , and Lee , L . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis . Foun dations and Trends in Information Retrieval 2 , 1 2 ( 2008 ) .
[ 24 ] Rosen , S . Hedonic prices and implicit markets : Product differentiation in pure competition . J . of Political Econ . 82 , 1 ( 1974 ) , 34–55 . [ 25 ] Song , M . A hybrid discrete choice model of differentiated product demand with an application to personal computers . FR 08 09 , 2008 . [ 26 ] Ye , Q . , Law , R . , and Gu , B . The impact of online user reviews on hotel room sales . Int . J . of Hosp . Mgmnt . 28 , 1 ( 2009 ) , 180–182 .
[ 27 ] Yee , K P , Swearingen , K . , Li , K . , and Hearst , M . Faceted meta data for image search and browsing . In CHI ( 2003 ) , pp . 401–408 . learning consumer opinions from online reviews [ 23 , 26 ] . In our work , through user modeling , we identify how users behave as a response to online reviews [ 2 ] , and demonstrate how to extract demographic specific preferences . Other studies proposed to combine popularity with user feedback or social annotations to refine search results [ 4 , 14 ] .
8 . DISCUSSION AND FUTURE WORK
We presented a ranking algorithm that uses a behavioral model of consumers , based on utility maximization . The model generates an estimate of how much each product characteristic contributes to the product ’s overall utility , and estimates the sensitivity of consumers to changes in various product characteristics . The estimation models are privacy friendly as they do not require individual consumer data but rather rely on aggregate data . Based on the generated models , we can estimate the surplus that each product generates for each consumer , and build rankings that capture the user preferences . We demonstrated , through extensive user studies , that our ranking schemes are better than any of the existing baselines . We also showed that personalized surplus based rankings are even better than the non personalized surplus based rankings . By doing so , we are able to target at each individual customer , and offer products with the “ best value for money ” in response to consumer queries . We should also note that our ranking scheme is “ causal , ” in the sense that the model can predict what “ should ” happen when we observe changes in the market . For example , when we see a new product in the marketplace , we can rank it by simply observing its characteristics , without waiting to see the consumers’ demand for the product . Also , we can dynamically change the rankings as a reaction to changes in the products . For example , if we observe a price change , or if we observe that a hotel closes its pool for renovations , we can adjust immediately the surplus values and re estimate the rankings .
Also , in order to better understand the antecedents of consumer ’s decisions , future work can look not only at transaction data but also into their browsing history and learning behavior . For example , our current model assumes that consumers are engaging into optimal utility maximizing behavior . However , this is not always true , as some consumers are more thorough than others in their search . By leveraging browsing histories , we can build models that explicitly take into consideration the fact that some users are “ utility optimizers ” and some others simply engage into “ satisficing . ” It would be also interested in examining the difference in the conversion rate of users , when presented with surplus based rankings .
By examining product search through the “ economic lens ” of consumer behavior , we can leverage micro economic theory and many theoretical models that have been developed over the years , which try to capture the decision making process of humans . Economic theory provides a very solid basis upon which we can build further computer science research , which has a different focus than economic research . Our example is illustrating : while economists have been building utility models for years , their goal was to estimate demand for products and the notion of surplus was just “ a means to an end ” and never had of value by itself . By focusing on product ranking , we showed how surplus can improve product search . Our experimental results demonstrated a significant improvement in user satisfaction . Other economic models ( eg , measuring the utility of product bundles ) can also be directly used in consumer facing applications on the Web ( eg , search for “ product bundles ” instead of simple products ) . We are very optimistic that this interdisciplinary research direction can generate very interesting results in the future .
WWW 2011 – Session : E commerceMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India336
