Joint WICOW/AIRWeb Workshop on Web Quality
( WebQuality 2011 )
Carlos Castillo1 , Zoltan Gyongyi2 , Adam Jatowt3 and Katsumi Tanaka3
1Yahoo! Research
Avinguda Diagonal 177 , 08018
Barcelona , Spain
2 Google Research
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway , Mountain View , CA 94043 , USA chato@yahoo inc.com zoltang@google.com
3Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo ku
606 8501 Kyoto , Japan {adam , kanazawa , tanaka}@dlkuiskyoto uacjp
ABSTRACT In this paper we overview the Joint WICOW/AIRWeb Workshop on Web Quality1 ( WebQuality 2011 ) that was held in conjunction with the 20th International World Wide Web Conference in Hyderabad , India . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; H31 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Content Analysis and Indexing General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Experimentation Keywords Web information quality , web information credibility , spam detection , adversarial information retrieval , 1 . OBJETIVES WebQuality 2011 was held on March 28th , 2011 as a joint WICOW/AIRWeb workshop . WICOW ( International Workshop on Information Credibility on the Web ) workshops have addressed information credibility on the Web in 4 previous editions ( 2007 2010 ) , while AIRWeb ( Adversarial Information Retrieval on the Web ) installments have covered adversarial information retrieval issues in 5 previous editions ( 2005 2009 ) . The main topics of the two workshop series had been on a path of convergence , due the continued diversification and fragmentation of web content , the increasing sophistication of manipulation attempts , and the growth in author base , particularly facilitated by emerging social media . Accordingly , a joint workshop catering for the larger research community interested in web content quality issues in general was held at WWW2011 . On one hand , the joint workshops aimed to cover the more blatant and malicious attempts that deteriorate web quality—such as spam , plagiarism , or various forms of abuse—and ways to prevent them or neutralize their impact on information retrieval . On the
1 http://wwwdlkuiskyoto uacjp/webquality2011/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) .
WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . to other hand , it also provided a venue for exchanging ideas on quantifying finer grained issues of content credibility and author reputation , and modeling them in web information retrieval . The main objective of the workshop was to provide the research communities working on web spam , abuse , credibility , and reputation topics with a survey of current problems and potential solutions . It was meant to present an opportunity for close interaction between practitioners who may have focused on more isolated sub areas previously . For an open publication platform such as the World Wide Web , content quality is a central issue . Low publishing barriers lead to very limited quality control , which results in the proliferation of mistaken , unreliable , and sometimes outright intentionally misleading information . Low quality ( textual or multimedia ) content can have detrimental effects on users , especially in the light of the ever increasing role the Web plays in our daily lives . Content quality challenges call for technology that facilitates judging the trustworthiness of content and assessing the accuracy of the information . Some of these challenges and technologies are not fundamentally new : search engine spam is over a decade old now , and content credibility problems have received a fair share of research attention in the past few years as well . However , novel web content quality issues abound as various forms of adversarial behavior gain in sophistication , and as new groups of users and web platforms ( such as microblogging services or local recommendation engines ) emerge . Besides the paper presentations we were pleased to have a keynote speech delivered by Elisa Bertino . Elisa is professor at the Computer at the Department of Computer Sciences , Purdue University and Research Director of CERIAS . Her main research interests cover many areas in the fields of information security and database systems . 2 . TOPICS The main themes of the workshop were that of evaluating web information combating qualitatively extreme content ( and related behavior ) , such as spam . These themes encompass a large set of often related topics and subtopics , as listed below .
Assessing the credibility of content and people on the web and social media Measuring quality of web content identifying credibility , and and
● Detecting disagreement and conflicting opinions
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India313 ●
Information quality and credibility of web search results , on social media sites , of online mass media and news , and on the Web in general
● Estimation of information age , provenance , validity , coverage , and completeness or depth
● Formation , change , and evolution of opinions ● Sociological and psychological aspects of information credibility estimation
● Users studies of information credibility evaluation
Uncovering distorted and biased content
● Detecting disagreement and conflicting opinions ● Detecting disputed or controversial claims ● Uncovering distorted or biased , inaccurate or false information
● Uncovering common misconceptions and false beliefs ● Search models and applications for finding factually correct information on the Web
● Comparing and evaluating online reviews , product or service testimonials
Modeling author identity , trust , and reputation
● Estimating authors’ and publishers’ reputation ● Evaluating authors’ qualifications and credentials ● Transparent ranking/reputation systems ● Author intent detection ● Capturing personal traits and sentiment ● Modeling author identity , authorship attribution , and writing style
● Systems for managing author identity on the Web ● Revealing hidden associations between authors , commenters , reviewers , etc .
Role of groups and communities
● Role of groups , communities , and invisible colleges in the formation of opinions on the Web
● Social network based credibility evaluation ● Analysis of information dissemination on the Web ● Common cognitive or social biases in user behavior ● Credibility in collaborative environments ( eg , on
Wikipedia )
Multimedia content credibility
● Detecting deceptive manipulation or distortion of images and multimedia
● Hiding content in images ● Detecting incorrect labels or captions of images on the
Web
● Detecting mismatches between online images and the represented real objects
● Credibility of online maps
Fighting spam , abuse , and plagiarism on the Web and social media Reducing web spam
● Detecting various types of search engine spam ( eg , link spam , content spam , or cloaking )
● Uncovering social network spam ( eg , serial sharing and lobbying ) and spam in online media ( eg , blog , forum , wiki spam , or tag spam ) Identifying review and rating spam
● ● Characterizing trends in spamming techniques
Reducing abuses of electronic messaging systems
● Detecting e mail spam ● Detecting spit ( spam over internet telephony ) and spim
( spam over instant messenger ) Detecting abuses in internet advertising
● Click fraud detection ● Measuring information credibility in online advertising and monetization
Uncovering plagiarism and multiple identity issues
● Detecting plagiarism in general , and in web communities , social networks , and cross language environments in particular Identifying near duplicate and versioned content of all kinds ( eg , text , software , image , music , or video )
●
● High similarity retrieval technologies ( eg , fingerprinting and similarity hashing )
Promoting cooperative behavior in social networks
● Monitoring vandalism , trolling , and stalking ● Detecting fake friendship requests with spam intentions ● Creating incentives for good behavior in social networks
● User studies of misuse of the Web Security issues with online communication
● Detecting phishing and identity theft ● Flagging malware ( eg , viruses and spyware ) ● Web forensics Other adversarial issues
● Modeling and anticipating responses of adversaries to counter measures
● New web infringements ● Web content filtering ● Bypassing censorship on the Web ● Blocking online advertisements ● Reverse engineering of ranking algorithms ● Stealth crawling
3 . PC MEMBERS We list the names and affiliations of PC members2 below :
Andras Benczur ( Hungarian Academy of Sciences ) James Caverlee ( Texas A&M University ) Gordon Cormack ( University of Waterloo ) Matt Cutts ( Google ) Brian Davison ( Lehigh University ) Dennis Fetterly ( Microsoft ) Andrew Flanagin ( University of California , Santa Barbara ) Miriam Metzger ( University of California , Santa Barbara ) Andrew Tomkins ( Google ) Masashi Toyoda ( University of Tokyo ) Steve Webb ( Georgia Institute of Technology ) Min Zhang ( Tsinghua University ) Xiaofang Zhou ( University of Queensland )
2 As of January 31st , 2011 .
WWW 2011 – WorkshopMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India314
