Smart News Feeds for Social Networks Using Scalable
Joint Latent Factor Models∗
Himabindu Lakkaraju
IBM Research India klakkara@inibmcom
Angshu Rai
IBM Research India angshurai@inibmcom
Srujana Merugu IBM Research India srujanamerugu@inibmcom
ABSTRACT Social networks such as Facebook and Twitter offer a huge opportunity to tap the collective wisdom ( both published and yet to be published ) of all the participating users in order to address the information needs of individual users in a highly contextualized fashion using rich user specific information . Realizing this opportunity , however , requires addressing two key limitations of current social networks : ( a ) difficulty in discovering relevant content beyond the immediate neighborhood , ( b ) lack of support for information filtering based on semantics , content source and linkage .
We propose a scalable framework for constructing smart news feeds based on predicting user post relevance using multiple signals such as text content and attributes of users and posts , and various user user , post post and user post relations ( eg friend , comment , author relations ) . Our solution comprises of two steps where the first step ensures scalability by selecting a small set of user post dyads with potentially interesting interactions using inverted feature indexes . The second step models the interactions associated with the selected dyads via a joint latent factor model , which assumes that the user/post content and relationships can be effectively captured by a common latent representation of the users and posts . Experiments on a Facebook dataset using the proposed model lead to improved precision/recall on relevant posts indicating potential for constructing superior quality news feeds . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords social media , news feeds , latent factor models 1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the ever increasing participation of authoritative news sources and the availability of flexible communication protocols social networks such as Facebook/Twitter have become the dominant acquisition and dissemination systems ∗ this work is available online at
A more detailed version of https://researcheribmcom/researcher/viewphp?person=in klakkara
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . for both generic and personal information . However , it is currently non trivial to discover all the relevant information or sources in a social network beyond the immediate social graph [ 4 ] . The key technical challenge is to design scalable techniques that can combine a large variety of sparse , high dimensional signals , such as text content and attributes of posts and users , and dyadic user user , post post , user post relations ( eg network linkage , authorship , commenting activity ) to predict other relationships of interest , eg the relevance of a post to a user or to another post .
Currently , there exists related work in the area of personalized news recommendation [ 3 ] and social network based search [ 5 ] where the relevance of a post to a user is modeled in terms of the structured user post attributes and user user ( activity or linkage ) correlation . Of these , the techniques based on discriminative models , require substantial feature engineering effort in addition to handling missing observations , while those based on generative models are not very scalable and handle a single dyadic relation .
In this work , we consider the problem of constructing a smart news feed by modeling user post relevance . The novelty of our approach lies in ( i ) ensuring scalability of the generative model for user post interactions by conditioning it on a selection variable , which can be computed fast using inverted feature indexes in a prior step , and ( ii ) combining the predictive power of multiple dyadic relations and text content using block and topic models coupled using a common latent representation for the users and posts . 2 . PROBLEM STATEMENT Let U denote the set of users , P , the set of posts . For each user u ∈ U , let cU u and xu denote the text content and demographic attributes ( eg gender ) in the user profile . Similarly , for each post p ∈ P , let cP p and yp denote the text content and structured attributes , ( eg hasLink ) . Further , for each dyad of users ( u , v ) ∈ U × U , let rU U u,v denote a vector encoding various relationships between the user dyad ( u , v ) , eg friend , follower , etc . Similarly , let rP P p,q and rU P denote encoding of relationships between the dyads ( p , q ) ∈ u,p P × P and ( u , p ) ∈ U × P . Given observations on user and post specific properties , and ( possibly incomplete ) useruser , post post , user post relationships , the goal is to predict user post relevance ( or in general , some fine grained userpost interaction ) , in order to obtain all the relevant posts for each user . 3 . SOLUTION APPROACH
We address the above problem using a two step approach . The first step involves selecting a small set of dyads with
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India73 potentially interesting interactions using inverted featurebased indexes . The second step assumes the first step selection variables to be fully observed , and models the dyadic interactions , post and user content using a joint latent factor model . Selection of Interesting Dyads . We choose a set of easy to compute , predictive features for the relevant dyad types ( user user , post post , user post ) . For instance , in the case of user post dyads , these include network distance between user and post author , immediate neighborhood size of post author , etc . The observed data is preprocessed to create maps from ( user , feature , feature values ) to matching posts . For each feature , a threshold is identified such feature value < that the feature threshold predicate ( eg threshold ) provides high recall and good precision for userpost pairs with interesting interactions . These predicates are then combined disjunctively to yield the desired high filter . Joint Latent Factor Model . The joint model in the second step is based on a key assumption that the dyadic ( useruser , user post , post post ) interactions and user/post text content can be explained using a compact latent representation of users and posts along with the observed user/post attributes . This latent representation not only provides a principled way of integrating information from multiple dyadic relations and text content , but also helps in avoiding issues arising due to high dimensionality and sparsity . The latent representation for a user u and a post p takes the form of a mixed membership across multiple user and post clusters u and πP and denoted by πU p respectively . The generative process can be briefly summarized as follows : p ∼ Dir(αP ) , ∀u ∈ U , ∀p ∈ P , u ∼ Dir(αU ) , πP πU u ∼ M ult(πU u,v , zU P u,v , zU U T zU U S p ∼ M ult(πP zP P S , zP P T , zP U p,q u,v ∼ BM U U ( ηUU , zU U S rU U p,q ∼ BM P P ( ηP P , zP P S rP P u,p ∼ BM UP ( ηU P , zU P rU P u ∼ T M C ( θC , zU C cU p ∼ T M P ( θP , zP C cP v,u , βUU , xu , xv ) , ∀u , v ∈ U , q,p , βP P , yp , yq ) , ∀p , q ∈ P , p,u , βUP , xu , yp ) , ∀u ∈ U , ∀p ∈ P , u ) , ∀u , v ∈ U , ∀p ∈ P , p ) , ∀p , q ∈ P , ∀u ∈ U , u , xu ) , ∀u ∈ U , , yp ) , ∀p ∈ P . u,v , zUU T p,q , zP P T u,p , zP U u,p , zUC p,u , zP C p,q p p p u and zP C u,· and z·
Here , BM and T M refer to block models and topic models respectively . The variables αU , αP denote the hyperparameters corresponding to the cluster membership priors , while z· p,· denote realizations of user and post cluster labels for different dyads , and zU C denote the ones that influence the user/post text content . The dyad specific cluster labels along with the block model parameters η , the observed user and post attributes ( xu , yp ) , and attribute coefficients β generate the dyadic interactions via generalized linear models ( GLM ) as in [ 1](eg logistic regression for binary interactions ) . Similarly , the cluster labels zU C along with the topic model parameters θ and user/post attributes ( xu , yp ) generate the user profile and post content using an LDA model [ 2 ] . Estimation of parameters and latent variables in the joint model is done using an approximate Gibbs sampling algorithm assuming default interactions for the dyads not selected in the first step . Aspect LDA Model for Posts . We observe that posts can be associated with few key aspects that are highly predictive of user post interactions . These include : ( a ) scopepersonal/non personal , ( b ) message type sentiment/question/ statement , ( c ) concept science/sports , etc . Of these , u , zP C
Baseline
Precision Relative Recall F measure
0.072 1.0
0.1343
Text
Joint Structured Model Content Attributes 0.3659 0.8851 0.5178
0.3078 0.7331 0.4334
0.1915 0.4726 0.2725
Table 1 : User post relevance prediction ( 3 fold CV ) .
“ personal ” , “ sentiment ” , “ question ” and specific instances of “ concepts ” can be readily defined in terms of word distributions while the other aspect choices tend to be defined by their complementary relation and hence , we learn a LDA model [ 2 ] with these topics seeded with a few exemplary words . 4 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Using a Facebook application that users can sign up for , we constructed a dataset comprising of user friendship linkage , user post authorship , commenting activity , user profiles and detailed post content ( text/attributes such as message type status/video/link ) . We considered a subset of this data with 257 users , 2441 posts and 1158 known friendship links . To evaluate the proposed model , we assume that one or more comments by a user on a viewed post is a proxy for the user post relevance that we seek to predict . Table 1 shows prediction quality for 4075 pairs of user and viewed posts ( ie , user is friend of post author ) from the collected data using 3 fold cross validation for different approaches : baseline Facebook feed , proposed joint modeling approach , as well as separately using the different predictive signals . The models were trained with 6 user clusters , 7 post clusters , 7 topics , and inference algorithm run for 500 iterations . The results point to the efficacy of the joint latent factor model in filtering out irrelevant posts while retaining most of the relevant ones . We also performed an evaluation of smart feeds constructed from unseen posts ( ie , not authored by friends ) using the joint model on a small set of users and obtained precision of 61.11 % on average , indicating that the joint model enables discovery of new content that is not in the immediate neighborhood . 5 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Preliminary results using the joint latent factor model based approach for estimating user post relevance are quite promising , but further experimentation with different cluster parameters , inference schemes and larger data sets needs to be performed . The dynamic nature of social network data also makes it critical to study incremental inference algorithms and temporal trends . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Agarwal and S . Merugu . Predictive discrete latent factor models for large scale dyadic data . In KDD , pages 26–35 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] D . M . Blei , A . Y . Ng , and M . I . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . JMLR , 3:993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] A . Das , M . Datar , A . Garg , and S . Rajaram . Google news personalization : scalable online collaborative filtering . In WWW , pages 271–280 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] D . Ramage , S . T . Dumais , and D . J . Liebling .
Characterizing microblogs with topic models . In ICWSM , 2010 .
[ 5 ] Z . Wen and C . Lin . On the quality of inferring interests from social neighbors . In KDD , pages 373–382 , 2010 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India74
