Hierarchical Organization of Unstructured Consumer
Reviews
Jianxing Yu , Zheng Jun Zha , Meng Wang , Tat Seng Chua
{jianxing , zhazj , wangm , chuats}@compnusedusg
School of Computing
National University of Singapore
ABSTRACT In this paper , we propose to organize the aspects of a specific product into a hierarchy by simultaneously taking advantages of domain structure knowledge as well as consumer reviews . Based on the derived hierarchy , we generate a hierarchical organization of the consumer reviews based on various aspects of the product , and aggregate consumer opinions on the aspects . With such hierarchical organization , people can easily grasp the overview of consumer reviews and opinions on various aspects , as well as seek consumer reviews and opinions on any specific aspect by navigating through the hierarchy . We conduct evaluation on two product review data sets : Liu et al . ’s data set containing 314 reviews for five products [ 2 ] , and our review corpus which is collected from forum Web sites containing 60,786 reviews for five popular products . The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I27 [ Natural Language Processing ] : Text Mining
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords Product Aspect Hierarchy , Consumer Review Organization
1 .
INTRODUCTION
With the rapid development of e commerce , huge collections of consumer reviews containing opinions are now available on the Web . These reviews have become an important resource for both consumers and firms . Consumers commonly seek quality information from online reviews before making purchase decisions . Accordingly , many firms take online reviews into consideration in production development , marketing etc . However , the online reviews of a specific product are usually unstructured and containing hundreds of aspects of the product . It is impractical for people to grasp the overview of consumer reviews and opinions on various aspects of the product from such enormous reviews . It is also inefficient for people to aggregate and browse the reviews and opinions on a specific aspect . To address the above problems , in this paper , we propose to organize the various aspects of a product into an aspect hierarchy , based on which we generate a hierarchical organization of consumer reviews and opinions on these aspects . Given a product ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 .
Figure 1 : Flowchart of Our Approach we first automatically construct an initial aspect hierarchy based on the domain structure knowledge mined from product selling Web sites , such as CNetcom We then iteratively cluster the consumer reviews into corresponding aspects in the hierarchy , and refine the hierarchy by taking advantage of the characteristics of review clusters . Afterwards , we employ sentiment classification technique to determine consumer opinions on the aspects . As a result , we generate an aspect hierarchy , as well as the hierarchical organization of the consumer reviews and opinions on the aspects . With such hierarchical organization , people can easily grasp the overview of consumer reviews and opinions on various aspects of a product , as well as navigate through the hierarchy to explore consumer reviews and opinions on a specific aspect .
2 . APPROACH
As illustrated in Figure 1 , our approach contains three main components : ( a ) initial aspect hierarchy acquisition , ( b ) hierarchy refinement and review organization , and ( c ) sentiment classification . 2.1 Initial Aspect Hierarchy Acquisition
Domain structure knowledge of product aspects is now available on the Web . For example , there are more than 248,474 product specifications in the product site CNet.com [ 1 ] . The specification of the product provides coarse grained parent child relationships between some aspects of the product . This structure knowledge is useful to help organize product aspects into a hierarchy . Here we employ the approach proposed in [ 5 ] to automatically acquire an initial aspect hierarchy from the product specifications . 2.2 Hierarchy Refinement and Review Orga nization
In this component , we leverage the initial aspect hierarchy to assist aspect hierarchy generation and review organization . The ini
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India171 tial aspect hierarchy usually does not fit the review data well . For example , some aspects that are commented in the reviews may not be covered in the hierarchy , while some aspects in the hierarchy may not be users’ interests in the reviews . Therefore , we propose to refine the initial hierarchy by taking into consideration the review data . By iteratively organizing the reviews into the hierarchy and refining the hierarchy , we will obtain a refined hierarchy which can fit the review data well and is able to generate better review organization .
In particular , in the stage of review organization , we utilize the noun terms and sentiment terms as the discriminative features to represent the reviews into vectors . Similarly , we represent the aspect terms and related aspect description terms in the node as vectors and view them as the initial centroids of the nodes . We cluster the reviews into relevant aspect nodes in the hierarchy based on cosine similarity . Since the reviews may contain multiple aspects , we segment them into several parts by using the approach in [ 6 ] . Each of the segmented reviews covers at most one aspect and belongs to the unique node in the hierarchy . In the hierarchy refinement stage , there are three manipulations : node pruning , node splitting , and node assignment handling . In node pruning , we delete the aspects which are not talked about in the reviews . In node splitting , we split the node whose review cluster is not homogeneous into sub clusters , and derive the frequent noun phases from the subclusters as their aspects . In node assignment handling , we create an “ Other" node as the descendent of the root to cache the reviews which are dissimilar to all the nodes . We iteratively conduct review organization and hierarchy refinement . As a result , a refined aspect hierarchy can be obtained , and the reviews with the same aspects , which are either explicit or implicit , will be clustered into the corresponding aspect nodes in the hierarchy . Thus , we can identify the implicit as well as the explicit aspects of the reviews , while traditional frequency based or rule based methods [ 2 ] fail to extract the implicit aspects . 2.3 Sentiment Classification
We leverage the Pros and Cons reviews on the Web as the training data to build a SVM sentiment classifier . We utilize the unigram as feature and represent the reviews into vectors with Boolean weighting . As the review may contain some non sentiment sentences , in the preprocessing part , we use the sentiment lexicon provided by MPQA project [ 3 ] to filter out those not contained the sentiment terms and view them as the non sentiment sentences .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
P roduct N ame Canon Powershot G3 ( Canon G3 ) Nikon coolpix 4300 ( Nikon 4300 ) Nokia 6610 Creative Nomad Jukebox Zen Xtra ( Nomad ) Apex AD2600 DVD player ( Apex AD2600 ) iPhone 3GS Nokia N95 Nokia 5800 XpressMusic ( Nokia 5800 ) BlackBerry Bold 9700 ( BlackBerry ) Apple MacBook Pro ( MacBook Pro )
Review# Sentence# 45 34 41 95 99 12,096 15,939 28,129 4,070 552
597 346 740 1,716 546 43,031 44,379 75,001 11,008 4,221
Table 1 : Statistic of the data sets . The top five product review corpus are Liu et al . data set and the other five product review corpus are our data collection . Sentence# denotes the number of sentences in the reviews
We conduct evaluation on two product review data sets : Liu et
Figure 2 : Performance comparisons on aspect identification
Figure 3 : Sample of aspect hierarchy and hierarchical review organization al . ’s data set [ 2 ] , and our review corpus collected from four forum Web sites including cnet.com , viewpoints.com , gsmarena.com and reevoocom Liu et al . ’s data set contains 314 reviews for five products , while our review collection contains 60,786 reviews for another five popular products ( see Table 1 ) . Figure 2 shows the performance comparisons of various methods on aspect identification , including Hu ’s method [ 2 ] , Wu ’s method [ 4 ] , aspect identification based on initial aspect hierarchy , as well as our approach . F1 measure is adopted as the performance metric . We can see that our approach outperforms the other methods on all the ten product review corpus . For sentiment classification , our SVM classifier achieves the average F1 measure of 0.834 on Liu et al ’s data set and 0.830 on our data set . Figure 3 illustrates the aspect hierarchy of “ iPhone 3GS" generated by our approach . While Figure 3 ( a ) shows the first layer of the aspect hierarchy , Figure 3 ( b ) illustrates the sub hierarchy of the aspect “ software." With such hierarchical organization , we can easily obtain the overview of consumer reviews and opinions on various aspects of the product , as well as navigate through the hierarchy to explore consumer reviews and opinions on a specific aspect .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Beckham . The cnet e commerce data set . Technical Reports , 2005 . [ 2 ] M . Hu and B . Liu . Mining and summarizing customer reviews . KDD ,
2004 .
[ 3 ] T . Wilson , J . Wiebe , and P . Hoffmann . Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase level sentiment analysis . HLT/EMNLP , 2005 .
[ 4 ] Y . Wu , Q . Zhang , X . Huang , and L . Wu . Phrase dependency parsing for opinion mining . ACL , 2009 .
[ 5 ] S . Ye and T S Chua . Learning object models from semi structured web documents . IEEE TKDE , 2006 .
[ 6 ] J . Zhu , H . Wang , and B . Tsou . Aspect based sentence segmentation for sentiment summarization . TSA , 2009 .
WWW 2011 – PosterMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India172
