Social Media Analytics : Tracking , Modeling and
Predicting the Flow of Information through Networks
Jure Leskovec Stanford University jure@csstanfordedu
ABSTRACT Online social media represent a fundamental shift of how information is being produced , transferred and consumed . User generated content in the form of blog posts , comments , and tweets establishes a connection between the producers and the consumers of information . Tracking the pulse of the social media outlets , enables companies to gain feedback and insight in how to improve and market products better . For consumers , the abundance of information and opinions from diverse sources helps them tap into the wisdom of crowds , to aid in making more informed decisions .
The present tutorial investigates techniques for social media modeling , analytics and optimization . First we present methods for collecting large scale social media data and then discuss techniques for coping with and correcting for the effects arising from missing and incomplete data . We proceed by discussing methods for extracting and tracking information as it spreads among the users . Then we examine methods for extracting temporal patterns by which information popularity grows and fades over time . We show how to quantify and maximize the influence of media outlets on the popularity and attention given to particular piece of content , and how to build predictive models of information diffusion and adoption . As the information often spreads through implicit social and information networks we present methods for inferring networks of influence and diffusion . Last , we discuss methods for tracking the flow of sentiment through networks and emergence of polarization . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H28 [ Database Management ] : Database applications—Data mining General Terms : Algorithms ; Experimentation . Keywords : Social media analytics , Social networks , Information diffusion , Information cascades , Influence maximization
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The emergence of the Web and Online Social Media represents a fundamental shift as it has added important new dimensions to the production and dissemination of news and information . Social Media allows for social interaction , using highly accessible and scalable publishing techniques . Users can generate content , access information , and potentially reach large audiences . Social Media also replaces the traditional one way mass media to consumer commu
Tutorial video , slides and all other materials are available at http://snapstanfordedu/proj/socmedia www/
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2011 , March 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India . ACM 978 1 4503 0637 9/11/03 . nication channel with an interactive dialogue , which allows for the creation and exchange of user generated content . This opens rich venues for mining and analyzing social media data . Companies analyze social media data to perform analytics , sentiment analysis or find influencers . Users browse information and opinions from diverse sources that helps them tap into the wisdom of crowds , to aid in making more informed decisions . However , this also opens a question of how do we overcome the information overload and provide a rich and coherent user experience ?
Social Media provides a connection between our social networks , personal information channels and the mass media . Social Media data in the form of user generated content on blogs , microblogs like Twitter , discussion forums , product review and multimedia sharing websites presents many new opportunities and challenges to both producers and consumers of information . Although there is a vast quantity of data available , the consequent challenge is to be able to analyze the large volumes of user generated content and often implicit links between users , in order to gain meaningful insights . The goal of this tutorial is to address methods , metrics and predictive tasks , as well as actionable explanatory analysis of social media data . The tutorial will survey recent methods and algorithms for large scale social media analytics and address the following questions :
• How do we collect massive amounts of social media data and what techniques can be used for correcting for the effects and biases arising from incomplete and missing data ?
• What methods can be used to extract and track the flow of interesting pieces of information that spread and diffuse among the users ? How can we identify the subset of content that is discussing not only a specific entity , but higher level concepts ?
• Having identified the subset of relevant content , how do we identify the most authoritative or influential authors ? How do we quantify the influence of users on the adoption and spread of different topics ? How do we maximize the overall influence ?
• How do we tease apart emerging topics of discussion from the constant chatter in the blogosphere and other social media ? How do we extract and model the temporal patterns by which information grows and fades over time ?
• How do we predict popularity of memes and other pieces of information that spread through the social media networks ? • The information spreads via implicit networks . How do we identify and infer such networks of influence and diffusion ? How do we discover implicit links between users ?
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India277 • How does sentiment flow through networks and how does polarization occur ?
• How do we overcome the information overload and provide users with rich and coherent experience ?
• How to deal with unreliable and often conflicting informa tion ? What notions of trust are appropriate ?
Tutorial presentation , slides and other materials are available at http://snapstanfordedu/proj/socmedia www/
2 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . A . Adamic and N . Glance . The political blogosphere and the 2004 us election : divided they blog . In LinkKDD ’05 : Proceedings of the 3rd international workshop on Link discovery , pages 36–43 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] L . A . Adamic , J . Zhang , E . Bakshy , and M . S . Ackerman . Knowledge sharing and yahoo answers : everyone knows something . In WWW ’08 : Proceeding of the 17th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 665–674 , New York , NY , USA , 2008 . ACM .
[ 3 ] E . Adar and L . A . Adamic . Tracking information epidemics in blogspace . In Web Intelligence , pages 207–214 , 2005 .
[ 4 ] E . Adar , L . Zhang , L . A . Adamic , and R . M . Lukose . Implicit structure and the dynamics of blogspace . In Workshop on the Weblogging Ecosystem , 2004 .
[ 5 ] E . Agichtein , C . Castillo , D . Donato , A . Gionis , and
G . Mishne . Finding high quality content in social media , with an application to community based question answering . In WSDM ’08 : ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Minig , pages 183–194 , 2008 .
[ 6 ] M . De Choudhury , Y R Lin , H . Sundaram , K . S . Candan ,
L . Xie , and A . Kelliher . How Does the Data Sampling Strategy Impact the Discovery of Information Diffusion in Social Media ? In ICWSM ’10 : Proceedings of the 4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , 2010 .
[ 7 ] D . Fisher , M . Smith , and H . T . Welser . You Are Who You Talk To : Detecting Roles in Usenet Newsgroups . In HICSS ’06 : Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , volume 3 , page 59b , 2006 .
[ 8 ] E . Gilbert and K . Karahalios . Predicting tie strength with social media . In CHI ’09 : Proceedings of the 27th international conference on Human factors in computing systems , pages 211–220 , New York , NY , USA , 2009 . ACM . [ 9 ] N . Glance , M . Hurst , K . Nigam , M . Siegler , R . Stockton , and
T . Tomokiyo . Deriving marketing intelligence from online discussion . In KDD ’05 : Proceeding of the 11th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery in data mining , pages 419–428 , 2005 .
[ 10 ] M . Goetz , J . Leskovec , M . Mcglohon , and C . Faloutsos . Modeling blog dynamics . In International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , May 2009 .
[ 11 ] M . Gomez Rodriguez , J . Leskovec , and A . Krause . Inferring networks of diffusion and influence . In KDD ’10 : Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , 2010 .
[ 12 ] D . Gruhl , R . Guha , R . Kumar , J . Novak , and A . Tomkins .
The predictive power of online chatter . In KDD ’05 : Proceeding of the 11th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery in data mining , pages 78–87 , 2005 .
[ 13 ] D . Gruhl , R . Guha , D . Liben Nowell , and A . Tomkins . Information diffusion through blogspace . In WWW ’04 : Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 491–501 , 2004 .
[ 14 ] R . Guha , R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , and A . Tomkins .
Propagation of trust and distrust . In WWW ’04 : Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 403–412 , 2004 .
[ 15 ] A . Java , X . Song , T . Finin , and B . Tseng . Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and social network analysis , pages 56–65 . ACM , 2007 .
[ 16 ] D . Kempe , J . M . Kleinberg , and E . Tardos . Maximizing the spread of influence through a social network . In KDD ’03 : Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 137–146 , 2003 .
[ 17 ] R . Kumar , J . Novak , P . Raghavan , and A . Tomkins . On the bursty evolution of blogspace . In WWW ’02 : Proceedings of the 11th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 568–576 , 2003 .
[ 18 ] H . Kwak , C . Lee , H . Park , and S . Moon . What is Twitter , a
Social Network or a News Media ? In WWW’10 : Proceedings of the 19th International World Wide Web Conference , April 2010 .
[ 19 ] J . Leskovec , L . Backstrom , and J . Kleinberg . Meme tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle . In KDD ’09 : Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 497–506 , 2009 .
[ 20 ] J . Leskovec , D . Huttenlocher , and J . Kleinberg . Predicting positive and negative links in online social networks . In WWW ’10 : Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on World Wide Web , 2010 .
[ 21 ] J . Leskovec , A . Krause , C . Guestrin , C . Faloutsos ,
J . VanBriesen , and N . Glance . Cost effective outbreak detection in networks . In KDD ’07 : Proceeding of the 13th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery in data mining , 2007 .
[ 22 ] J . Leskovec , M . McGlohon , C . Faloutsos , N . Glance , and
M . Hurst . Cascading behavior in large blog graphs . In SDM ’07 : Proceedings of the SIAM Conference on Data Mining , 2007 .
[ 23 ] J . Leskovec , A . Singh , and J . M . Kleinberg . Patterns of influence in a recommendation network . In PAKDD ’06 : Proceedings of the 10th Pacific Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pages 380–389 , 2006 .
[ 24 ] S . Myers and J . Leskovec . On the convexity of latent social network inference . In NIPS ’10 : Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 2010 .
[ 25 ] S . Sadikov , M . Medina , J . Leskovec , and H . Garcia Molina .
Correcting for missing data in information cascades . In WSDM ’11 : ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Minig , 2011 .
[ 26 ] J . Yang and Leskovec . Modeling information diffusion in implicit networks . In ICDM ’10 : IEEE International Conference On Data Mining , 2010 .
[ 27 ] J . Yang and Leskovec . Patterns of temporal variation in online media . In WSDM ’11 : ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Minig , 2011 .
WWW 2011 – TutorialMarch 28–April 1 , 2011 , Hyderabad , India278
