Predicting Serves in Tennis using Style Priors
Queensland University of
Xinyu Wei
Technology
Patrick Lucey
Disney Research Pittsburgh
Stuart Morgan
Australian Institute of Sport
Peter Carr
Disney Research Pittsburgh
Machar Reid Tennis Australia
Sridha Sridharan
Queensland University of
Technology
ABSTRACT In professional sport , an enormous amount of fine grain performance data can be generated at near millisecond intervals in the form of vision based tracking data . One of the first sports to embrace this technology has been tennis , where Hawk Eye technology has been used to both aid umpiring decisions , and to visualize shot trajectories for broadcast purposes . These data have tremendous untapped applications in terms of “ opponent planning ” , where a large amount of recent data is used to learn contextual behavior patterns of individual players , and ultimately predict the likelihood of a particular type of serve . Since the type of serve selected by a player may be contingent on the match context ( ie , is the player down break point , or is serving for the match etc. ) , the characteristics of the player ( ie , the player may have a very fast serve , hit heavy with topspin or kick , or slice serves into the body ) as well as the characteristics of the opponent ( eg , the opponent may prefer to play from the baseline or “ chip and charge ” into the net ) . In this paper we present a method which recommends the most likely serves of a player in a given context . We show by utilizing a “ style prior ” , we can improve the prediction/recommendation . Such an approach also allows us to quantify the similarity between players , which is useful in enriching the dataset for future prediction . We conduct our analysis on Hawk Eye data collected from three recent Australian Open Grand Slam Tournaments and show how our approach can be used in practice .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In recent times , a new innovation which has enhanced the second screen experience of grand slam tennis matches has been achieved through IBM Slamtracker [ 13 ] . One compelling aspect behind this platform has been the use of predictive analytics which utilizes over 41 million data points to recommend actions a player needs to do against their opponent to succeed in a match . Another innovation that has
Figure 1 : Top 3 likely serves from Nadal against different players for varying match contexts . Percentage indicates the likelihood of the serve type . Top Row : First serves against different opponents ; 2nd Row : First serves against Federer ; 3rd Row : First serves against Djokovic ; Bottom Row : First serves when down break point . been utilized in professional tennis over the last decade has been the deployment of the Hawk Eye tracking system [ 10 ] , which tracks the trajectory of the ball during a match as well as the player ’s feet position . This tracking technology has been used to aid both umpiring decisions , and to visualize shot trajectories for broadcast purposes . Although both technologies have revolutionized the way broadcast viewers , players , coaches and commentators have analyzed tennis ,
Nadal vs EveryoneNadal vs DjokovicNadal vs FedererNadal Break Points2207 current tennis analytics have only used generic event based features , and fine grained analyses and predictions of ball trajectories have been omitted . In this paper , we present a method which accurately predicts the most likely trajectory a player will hit .
Specially , we focus on “ serving ” where distinct patterns of behavior unique to each player and situation are observable . Serving in tennis is an especially useful insight into the patterned behavior of a player because it is self paced , and ( within the game rules ) the type and location of serve is entirely the choice of the server . An example of our approach is shown in Fig 1 – in the top plot we show the most likely serves Nadal will hit against all opponents regardless of the context of the match . In the second plot , we show how these percentages change when he plays Federer . In the third plot , we show how Nadal ’s serving behavior changes when he is facing Djokovic and the bottom plot shows what Nadal does when he is down a break point . As can be seen from these four plots , both the type of serve and the frequency of each serve varies depending on the opponent as well as the context of the match score .
The aim of this work is to create an “ assistive tool ” for coaches and players when they are planning to play against an upcoming opponent . In practice , coaches and players review large volumes of video in efforts to ascertain the patterned behavior and strategic tendencies of a potential opponent . Due to the time it takes to segment video clips , view and analyze player patterns , it is often the case that there is only enough time to view a single match ( often it is the most recent match ) . In terms of predictive analytics , this is less than ideal as the match they analyze could be : i ) on a different surface , ii ) against a different calibre of player ( eg , better or worse ) , iii ) against a different style of player ( eg , serve and volleyer or baseliner ) , iv ) the opponent could be of a different handedness ( eg , left or right ) , or v ) the game may have been played in a different environment ( ie , temperature and time of day ) . These confounding factors can lead coaches to miss important strategic features in an opponent , or to misrepresent the likely playing strategy of the opponent in other matches .
A significant contribution of this paper is our method of capturing the “ style ” of a player . We utilize a latent factor model , where we represent the style of a player as a distribution of serve types . Before we can learn the different style types for players , we first discover the types of serves that players use more generally in professional tennis . We compare this learnt dictionary of serves to both an expert ’s opinion , as well as reconstruction error . We then use a similar method to learn the receiver ’s behavior which helps boost prediction performance . Such an approach also allows us to quantify the similarity between players . This work was conducted on Hawk Eye data from the 2012 2014 Men ’s Australian Open Grand Slam Tournament .
2 . RELATED WORK
With the recent deployment of player and ball tracking systems in professional sports such as basketball , soccer and tennis , new research has been conducted on how to use such data sources . These works can be generally categorized into two areas : 1 ) knowledge discovery , 2 ) prediction . We review recent relevant work in these areas which are related to dealing with spatiotemporal tracking data in sports . Additionally , as we are leveraging a high level description of player behavior which encompasses their unique characteristics or style , we also review works in this domain ( trajectory clustering is discussed in Section 4 ) .
Knowledge Discovery : Some of the first works using player tracking data have used STATS SportsVU position data from NBA basketball [ 27 ] . One of these works was by Goldsberry [ 9 ] who used the data to rank the best shooters in the NBA according to their shot location . Maheswaran et al . [ 21 , 22 ] used the tracking data to analyze the best method to obtain a rebound . Similarly , Wiens et al . [ 32 ] looked at optimizing player positions for teams to “ crash the boards ” ( to aggressively approach the basketball ring to regain the ball after a missed shot ) . Recently , Lucey et al . [ 19 ] used tracking data to discover how teams achieved open threepoint shots in basketball and found that the distance and number of role swaps of the defense were the most predictive factors . Bocskocksy et al . [ 4 ] re investigated the hot hand theory ( ie , a shooter is more likely to make the next shot if he/she made the previous one ) using the data and found that the next shot taken by a shooter who just made a shot is often more difficult due to the tighter defense and increased distance from the basket . In soccer , Bialkowski et al . [ 3 ] examined the rigidity of a team ’s formation across a season and showed that home teams tended to player higher up the pitch both in offense and defense . This followed the work in [ 20 ] , which showed that home teams had significantly more possession in the forward third which strongly correlated with the number of shots and goals . Wei et al . [ 31 ] used player tracking data to cluster different methods of how teams score using a role representation . Knauf and Brefeld [ 15 ] proposed a spatio temporal convolution kernels for clustering trajectories in soccer games . Morgan et al [ 24 ] used decision tree induction to learn the movement player patterns that are consistent with eliminating opponents in small sided hockey games .
Prediction : Cervone et al . [ 6 ] used basketball tracking data to predict points and decisions made during a play . They did this via an expected possession value model that assumes the decision the ball handler makes depends only on the current spatial configuration of the team in possession via a spatial occupancy map . Carr et al . [ 5 ] used realtime player detection data to predict the future location of play and point a robotic camera in that location for automatic sport broadcasting purposes . Adams et al . , [ 1 ] , used probabilistic matrix factorization via Gaussian processes to predict the scores of professional basketball games using only team identity , venue and date information of the game . Ganeshapillai and Guttag [ 8 ] used SVMs to predict the performance of a pitcher in the next innings in baseball and Sinha et al . [ 26 ] recently used Twitter feeds to predict the outcomes in NFL games . In terms of tennis , Wei et al . [ 30 , 29 ] used Hawk Eye data to predict the type and location of the next shot during a rally .
Style Analysis : Although latent factor models have been widely used for applications using text data , this is less so for other forms of unstructured data such as images/video as well spatiotemporal tracking data . In vision , the seminal work on separating style from content was by Tenenbaum and Freeman [ 28 ] where they used a bilinear model for a host of recognition tasks . By decoupling the raw content from the particular style , they showed how this acted as a useful prior in extrapolating to unseen tasks such as translation of faces to unseen illuminants and of fonts to unseen
2208 letters . More recently , Doersch et al . [ 7 ] used discriminative clustering to discover the attributes that distinguished images of one city from another ( “ What makes Paris look like Paris ? ” ) . They followed this work by exploring the visual style of objects ( eg , cars and houses ) and how they vary over time [ 17 ] . Hu et al . [ 11 ] used Latent Dirichlet Allocation to discover trending categories for clothes based on a shopper ’s “ aesthetic preferences ” which has improved many key business metrics . In sports , detecting a team ’s style of play was initially conducted by Lucey et al . [ 18 ] , where they used entropy maps to characterize a soccer team ’s ball movement patterns using data from Opta [ 25 ] . Recently , Miller et al . [ 23 ] use non negative matrix factorization to characterize different types of shooters in basketball by modeling shot attempts as a point process . Similarly , Yue et al . , [ 33 ] used a similar approach to incorporate model player behaviors of defense , passing behaviors as well as ball retention factors to boost prediction performance . No previous work modeling a player ’s style has been used in tennis analysis .
3 . TENNIS DATASET
In this paper , we used Hawk Eye data from 3 years of the Australian Open Men ’s draw ( 2012 2014 ) . In total , the dataset consisted of 4758 first serves and 2292 second serves . As players hit serves with their racquets with either their right or left hand , the side of the court is important in predicting what type of serve will be hit . As such , we refer to the deuce court to the instance when a player hits a serve from their right hand side to their left hand side ( Fig 2(bottom ) – in blue ) . The ad court refers to the instance when a player serves from their left hand side across to their righthand side see Fig 2(top ) – in red ) . In the dataset , we had a total of 3658 serves to the deuce court while 3392 serves were to the ad court1 . There were a total of 371 aces and 221 double faults . As Grand Slam tournaments in tennis are in a knock out format ( ie , if a player loses , they do not play any more matches ) , we focussed our analysis on the top 10 players who played the most matches in the three years we analyzed . Details of the serve of each player used in the dataset are shown in Table 1 . The Hawk eye system records the ( x , y , z ) position of the ball as a function of t , as well as the foot position of each player at 20 Hz . For each point , metadata about the point , such as current score , time duration , server , receiver etc . , is provided which allows us to drill down to the specifics of player behavior .
4 . DISCOVERING SERVE DICTIONARY
In tennis parlance , coarse descriptions are used to describe serves such as “ fast , down the T ” , “ kick serve ” , “ swinging serve ” , “ heavy serve ” as well as “ body serve ” . Although these terms are commonly used , they are rather vague and subjective as they have different meanings/interpretations between people . Instead of relying on expert labels which are subjective – our approach was to use an unsupervised method of discovering the types of serves directly from the data . By doing this , we effectively learn a dictionary of serves which we can describe the myriad of serves that exist . The mechanism in which we did this , was via trajectory clustering which also incorporates the semantics of the game . Before any clustering can be conducted however , we first require to
1All games in tennis start with serves from the deuce court side
Player Djokovic
Nadal Federer Murray Berdych
Ferrer
Nishikori
Tomic Tsonga
Wawrinka
Total
First Second Ace % Double Err % 598 638 396 457 488 355 267 434 469 656 4758
15.34 % 6.05 % 7.49 % 9.21 % 10.21 % 9.47 % 6.95 % 7.45 % 7.19 % 8.81 % 9.64 %
378 215 187 239 244 166 126 246 212 279 2292
8.86 % 4.08 % 11.87 % 7.22 % 8.13 % 7.04 % 5.77 % 8.22 % 7.69 % 9.49 % 7.81 %
Table 1 : Details of the types of serves the top 10 players utilized in the dataset . Ace % is the number of aces over total number of first serves . Double Err % is the number of double faults over total number of second serves .
Figure 2 : All serves collected in the tournaments . Red trajectories are serves to the ad court while blue are serves to the deuce court . an accurate parameterization of each serve trajectory to preserve important nuances which can adequately discriminate between different types of serves . 4.1 Trajectory Parameterization
Each serve consists of a set of 3D trajectories – an example is shown in Fig 3(top ) . A way of interpreting the serve is by obtaining the absolute location ( x , y , z ) at t0 , which is the location when the player ’s racquet impacts the ball for the serve . Due to the rules of tennis , depending on what side of the court comes from , the ball has to travel over the net and bounce in the service box which is diagonally opposite from where the ball is starting from . We refer to the time of flight from the initial impact of the server ’s racquet on the ball , to the point the ball subsequently bounces on the other side of the net t1 . After the ball bounces in play ( if it bounces within the diagonal service box it is legal , if it is outside it is deemed a “ fault ” ) , the ball continues on a second trajectory until it is struck by the opponent ’s racquet or until it has passed the receiver and again hits the court or background ( this is referred to as an “ ace ” ) . We refer to the time of flight from the bounce to the subsequent impact point on the receiver ’s racquet t2 . As can be seen in Fig 3 , each serve can be described via two trajectories . Partitioning a serve
2209 into sub trajectories is attractive as we can develop specific metrics for each trajectory segment which can better capture the nuances of the serve , instead of one measure which may fail to capture these slight variations [ 16 ] . In this paper , we represented each serve as two sub trajectories .
In terms of parameterization of each sub trajectory , there are many representations that can be used . One method which has been used recently is to extract features such as impact speed , angle and bounce mark location [ 29 ] . Although intuitive , these hand crafted features may not capture all the important characteristics of the trajectory ( eg , spin ) , and only capture the first segment of the trajectory . Another method of parameterization is via the coefficients of a 3rd or 4th order polynomial . Even though such methods are lossless , the coefficients are non linear meaning the weighted metrics are required for each parameter making it hard to interpret ( eg , what does a 0.1 change of the second coefficient mean? ) . To allow for interpretability , we sample the trajectory at various time steps to obtain the absolute position in x , y , z at these moments . Specifically , we uniformly sample n points from segment 1 ( between t0 and t1 ) and n − 1 points from segment 2 ( between t1 + 1 and t2 ) . The entire trajectory F can then be represented as :
F = {f1 , fn , , f2n−1} ,
( 1 ) where the fi represent the spatiotemporal location of the ball at the ith location . fi include information of both location and dynamics , fi = [ x , y , z , ˙x , ˙y , ˙z ] . We set n to 100 in our experiments . points . For our problem , PCA is not ideal as we want the parameterization/thresholds to be interpretable which PCA space is not amenable to . Alternatively DTW is good for aligning for different trajectory lengths , but this loses vital information about the serve ( ie , serve velocity ) . As such , we use the HU distance as our similarity function . A simplified example illustrated how we compare two trajectories is shown in Fig 3 . Given trajectory Fs and Fk , we define the distance as :
2n
Dist(Fs , Fk ) = 1/(2n ) dE(fs,i , fk,i ) ,
( 2 ) i=1 where fs,i is the ith point in trajectory fs . This distance measures the mean of the pairwise Euclidean distance between two corresponding points . There are many different clustering methods that can be used to obtain our serve dictionary ( e.g , k means , spectral methods , agglomerative ) , but due to the rules of the game of tennis it is most important to : i ) incorporate semantics , and ii ) allow the clusters to be interpretable . To satisfy the first requirement , we devised a hierarchy of serve types which can be seen in Fig 4 . Based on each of these semantic roots ( or serve contexts ) , we first assigned all serves to one of these groups . These hardassignments were based on whether the serve was valid ( or in play ) , or a fault . We then further assigned these serves on which side the server is serving to ( ie , deuce or adcourt ) . Once serves were separated by semantic groups , we performed k means clustering . As we broke the trajectory into segments which should be locally linear , we clustered the first trajectory segments and the second trajectory segments separately . In the first segment , we found 3 groups ( down the T , body and wide ) . Each of these groups were then partitioned into further groups which resulted in 7 different serve types for each side of the court . We choose K = 7 as the reconstruction error starts to smooth out after this value . A visualization of the clustering results for left and right side is shown in Fig 5 and Fig 6 respectively . Given 2k cluster . A visualization of the centroids are shown in Fig 7 and Fig 8 . The reconstruction error as a function of the number of clusters is shown in Fig 9 . A description of these serve types given by a tennis expert is given in Table 2 .
5 . STYLE 5.1 Representing Serve Style
Figure 3 : Examples of two serve trajectories F1 and F2 from Hawk eye data when n = 3 .
4.2 Trajectory Clustering
Once the parameterization of each sub trajectory has been performed , serve trajectories can be clustered into representative groups . In terms of similarity measures , there is a large number of candidate approaches that can be used . One such method was initially proposed by Hu [ 12 ] , where the average Euclidean distance between points on two trajectories is used . Instead of working in the trajectory coordinate space , PCA [ 2 ] can be used to transform the trajectories into a lower dimensionality subspace . To deal with variable length trajectories , Dynamic Time Warping ( DTW ) [ 14 ] can be applied to compare signals of unequal length by finding a warp that minimizes the total distance between matching
Figure 4 : Clustering scheme .
F1F22210 Serve ID Side Direction
Speed
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
Angle wide down the T down the T wide body down the T down the T down the T body down the T wide down the T down the T wide ad ad ad ad ad ad ad deuce deuce deuce deuce deuce deuce deuce
( KM/HR )
172 173 185 188 184 194 161 193 165 178 184 196 183 175
Table 2 : Experiment results of serve prediction .
Figure 5 : Clusters of serve trajectories to the ad the court .
Figure 6 : Clusters of serve trajectories to the deuce court .
Figure 7 : The median trajectory for each cluster to the ad court .
Describing the playing style of a tennis player can be an extremely subjective task . Depending on the expertise of
Figure 8 : The median trajectory for each cluster to the deuce court .
Figure 9 : Reconstruction error of serves in terms of Euclidean distance ( left=ad court , right=deucecourt ) . the observer , it can be very coarse ( eg , “ this player hits the ball really hard ” ) or fine grained ( eg , “ the way the player rotates his wrist at the point of contact for his single handed backhand is beauty personified ” ) . In terms of measuring the similarities , we need a more quantifiable method . As obtaining labels from experts which describe style with high agreeability is a challenging endeavor , another approach is to use a Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) method to capture these high level semantics . To do this , we can utilize the serve dictionary , D , and represent the serving behavior of each player as a normalized histogram of each serve type . As we have 14 different serve types in our dictionary , this means that we can represent each player ’s style via a 14 dimensional feature vector , where each feature varies between 0 and 1 . The distributions of each of the 10 players we analyzed in this paper are shown in Fig 10 .
Now that we have a style descriptor of each player , we can estimate the similarity between players . A simple method of comparing two style descriptors is to find the sum of differences between them . A visualization of player ’s pairwise differences is shown in Fig 11 . We also have constructed a graph to visualize player serve similarity ( see Fig 12 ) . 5.2 Serve Prediction using Style Prior
Although quantifying player similarities is an interesting endeavor , it ultimately has little meaning or use in its current form . A method to evaluate whether the style descriptor is useful or not is through a series of prediction experiments . In this paper we ask the following question , for a given game situation , as well as the identity of the server and receiver , how well can we predict the next serve trajectory ? . To simplify , we interpreted this task as a classification problem where we aim to correctly classify which of the 7 serves to each side of the court the player was most likely to hit . Formally , the problem is : given the current game context feature x for a particular player , we want to predict the la
Reconstruction Error ( ad court)Reconstruction Error ( deuce court)Number of ClustersNumber of Clusters2211 Figure 11 : A visualization of the similarities between players . 1 Djokovic ; 2 Nadal ; 3 Federer ; 4 Murray ; 5 Berdych ; 6 Ferrer ; 7 Nishikori ; 8 Tomic ; 9 Tsonga ; 10 Wawrinka .
Figure 10 : Styles of four top players in the tournaments . bel of the next serve y , where y ∈ Y and Y = {y1 , y2 , , ym} , where yi is a particular serve type in the serve dictionary and m is the total number of serve types in the dictionary ( m=7 ) . Our classifier takes the form of a Random Decision Forest , which is robust against the overfitting that might occur via bootstrapping . It also has good local feature space adaptivity via randomly splitting the feature space at multiple levels of each tree .
To test the style descriptor , we conducted four sets of experiments using different types of prior information : 1 ) game context features only , 2 ) game context features plus player ID and 3 ) : game context , player ID plus style features of the player , and 4 ) game context features plus style features of both the player and the opponent . As tennis is an adversarial sport , the behavior of the opponent will have an impact on the type of serve a player will use . To incorporate the opponent style , we appended their style descriptor to x .
For all the experiments , we use 60 % of the data for training and 40 % for testing . We measured the performance of the prediction using the classification rate , which is simply the hit rate of the prediction . Each experiment was conducted 10 times and the average performance is reported in Table 3 . As is evident in these results , incorporating the style prior helps boost prediction performance . Perhaps even more interesting , is that by incorporating the style of the serve return , we enhance prediction further .
6 . APPLICATION : OPPONENT PLANNING As mentioned earlier , the aim of this work is to create an “ assistive tool ” for coaches and players when they are planning to play against an upcoming opponent . The idea is that a coach or player would be able to interact with our
Figure 12 : A visualization of the similarities between players . Edges indicate the differences between players . Edges whose distance is greater than the overall mean distance are removed .
Feature Random Score Score & Player ID Score & Player Style Score & Player & Opp Style
Accuracy
14.3 % 17.4 % 21.6 % 24.4 % 27.8 %
Table 3 : Experiment results of serve prediction .
“ serve predictor ” tool to see what tendencies opponents have in a very quick and efficient manner ( ie , instead of spending time “ cutting tape ” just to view a couple of serves , the player would have all previous serves of an opponent stored in database , and would be able to select different match contexts ( or opponents ) and see how the serves vary . In this instantiation , we display the top 3 likely serves along with
2212 Figure 13 : Player serving behavior against all opponents . Percentage indicates the likelihood of the serve type .
Figure 14 : Player serving behavior against all opponents at break point . Percentage indicates the likelihood of the serve type . percentages , but this could be altered to the satisfy the requirements of the user . Below we give specific examples of serving behaviors for the “ big four ” ( ie , Nadal , Djokovic , Federer and Murray ) . We first analyze their global behaviors , meaning that on average these are the top 3 serves each player hits to the deuce court regardless of opponent ( see Fig 13 ) . The second example we show is the player behavior to the deuce court when they are break point down ( see Fig 14 ) . The comparison between these two figures is important . For Nadal , in normal situations his main serve tends to be down the line . In break point situations however , almost half the time ( 48 % ) he serves wide of the court which is totally different . Djokovic on the other hand does the opposite , in normal points he tends to serve wide but in break points he goes down the middle . The same pattern can be seen for Federer normally he serves out wide but at break point he goes down the middle . The change for Murray however , is not as drastic as he tends to subtly change his behavior but not at the same magnitude of the other big three .
In terms of individual serving behavior against specific opponents , our approach can help us pick up on interest ing behavior . In Fig 15 , we can see that Federer ’s serving scheme does not tend to differ against other opponents generally . In contrast , when we drill down on the serving behaviors against a specific opponent , we can see some interesting patterns . An example of serving behavior against Federer is shown in Fig 16 . We can see that Nadal prefers to hit his serves to Federer ’s backhand , while the most popular serve for Murray and Tomic is to Federer ’s forehand side . This is very interesting as Nadal has a tremendous record against Federer with the tactic of hitting shots directly to his backhand . For illustrative purposes we have just chosen these specific examples , but this approach can be used to model the behavior of any player given the tracking data .
7 . SUMMARY
In this paper , we presented an approach to predict the most likely serve a player will hit in a given match context , against a specific opponent using Hawk Eye data collected from three recent Australian Open Grand Slam Tournaments . To do this we first learnt a dictionary of “ serve prototypes ” , depending on the side of the court ( ad court , or deuce court ) , as well as the game context ( ie , first serve , second serve )
Djokovic vs EveryoneFederer vs EveryoneNadal vs EveryoneMurray vs EveryoneDjokovic Break PointNadal Break PointFederer Break PointMurray Break Point2213 trajectory into two segments , and then clustering in a hierarchical manner . To obtain better prediction performance , we utilized a “ style prior ” which was formed as a normalized histogram of serve types . We also incorporated the return style of the opponent to further boost performance . Our approach also allowed the similarity of serving styles between players to be quantified . The overall goal of this work is to create an assistive tool for coaches and players to use when planning to play against an upcoming opponent . Even though good performance has been achieved , this work is still in the discovery phase with a system yet to be deployed .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Adams , G . Dahl , and I . Murray . Incorporating Side Information in Probabilisitc Matrix Factorization with Gaussian Processes . arXiv preprint arXiv:1003.4944 , , 2010 .
[ 2 ] F . I . Bashir , A . A . Khokhar , and D . Schonfeld . Object trajectory based activity classification and recognition using hidden markov models . In IEEE Trans . Image Process , volume 16 , pages 1912–1919 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] A . Bialkowski , P . Lucey , P . Carr , Y . Yue , and
I . Matthews . ” win at home and draw away ” : Automatic formation analysis highlighting the differences in home and away team behaviors . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 4 ] A . Bocskocsky , J . Ezekowitz , and C . Stein . The Hot Hand : A New Approach to an Old “ Fallacy ” . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 5 ] P . Carr , M . Mistry , and I . Matthews . Hybrid Robotic/Virtual Pan Tilt Zoom Cameras for Autonomous Event Recording . In ACM Multimedia , 2013 .
[ 6 ] D . Cervone , A . D’Amour , L . Bornn , and
K . Goldsberry . POINTWISE : Predicting Points and Valuing Decisions in Real Time with NBA Optical Tracking Data . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 7 ] C . Doersch , S . Singh , A . Gupta , J . Sivic , and A . Efros .
What Makes Paris Look Like Paris ? ACM Transactions on Graphics ( SIGGRAPH ) , 31(4 ) , 2012 .
[ 8 ] G . Ganeshapillai and J . Guttag . A Data Driven
Method for In Game Decision Making in MLB . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 9 ] K . Goldsberry . CourtVision : New Visual and Spatial
Analytics for the NBA . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2012 .
[ 10 ] Hawk Eye . wwwhawkeyeinnovationscouk [ 11 ] D . Hu , R . Hall , and J . Attenberg . Style in the Long
Tail : Discovering Unique Interests with Latent Variable Models in Large Scale Social E commerce . In ACM SIGKDD , 2014 .
[ 12 ] W . Hu , D . Xie , Z . Fu , W . Zeng , and S . Maybank .
Semantic based surveillance video retrieval . In IEEE Trans . Image Process , volume 16 , pages 1168–1181 , 2007 .
[ 13 ] IBMSlamtracker . wwwausopencom/en_AU/ slamtracker/slamtrackerhtml
[ 14 ] E . Keogh and M . Pazzani . Scalling up dynamic time warping for datamining applications . In KDD , pages 285–289 , 2000 .
Figure 16 : Individual serving behavior against Federer . Percentage indicates the likelihood of the serve type .
Figure 15 : Individual serving behavior of Federer against Nadal , Murray and Federer . Percentage indicates the likelihood of the serve type . and game score ( ie , normal point , serving for the game or down break point ) . We did this by parameterizing the serve
Nadal vs FedererMurray vs FedererTomic vs FedererFederer vs NadalFederer vs MurrayFederer vs Tomic2214 [ 15 ] K . Knauf and U . Brefeld . Spatio temporal convolution
[ 24 ] S . Morgan , W . DM . , and C . Barnes . Applying decision kernels for clustering trajectories . In KDD Workshop on Large Scale Sports Analytics , 2014 .
[ 16 ] J G Lee , J . Han , and K Y Whang . Trajectory clustering : a partition and group framework . In ACM SIGMOD , 2007 .
[ 17 ] Y . Lee , A . Efros , and M . Hebert . Style Aware
Mid Level Representation for Discovering Visual Connections in Space and Time . In ICCV , 2013 . [ 18 ] P . Lucey , A . Bialkowski , P . Carr , E . Foote , and I . Matthews . Characterizing Multi Agent Team Behavior from Partial Team Tracings : Evidence from the English Premier League . In AAAI , 2012 .
[ 19 ] P . Lucey , A . Bialkowski , P . Carr , Y . Yue , and
I . Matthews . How to Get an Open Shot : Analyzing Team Movement in Basketball using Tracking Data . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 20 ] P . Lucey , D . Oliver , P . Carr , J . Roth , and
I . Matthews . Assessing team strategy using spatiotemporal data . In ACM SIGKDD , 2013 . [ 21 ] R . Masheswaran , Y . Chang , A . Henehan , and
S . Danesis . Destructing the Rebound with Optical Tracking Data . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2012 .
[ 22 ] R . Masheswaran , Y . Chang , J . Su , S . Kwok , T . Levy ,
A . Wexler , and N . Hollingsworth . The Three Dimensions of Rebounding . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2014 .
[ 23 ] A . Miller , L . Bornn , R . Adams , and K . Goldsberry .
Factorized Point Process Intensities : A Spatial Analysis of Professional Basketball . In ICML , 2014 . tree induction for identification of important attributes in one versus one player interactions : A hockey exemplar . Journal of Sports Sciences , 31:1031–1037 , 2013 .
[ 25 ] Opta . http://wwwoptasportscom/ [ 26 ] S . Sinha , C . Dyer , K . Gimpel , and N . Smith . Predicting the NFL Using Twitter . In ECML Workshop on Machine Learning and Data Mining for Sports Analytics , 2013 .
[ 27 ] Stats . http://wwwstatscom/ [ 28 ] J . Tenenbaum and W . Freeman . Separating Style and
Content with Bilinear Models . Neural Computation , 12(6):1247–1283 , 2000 .
[ 29 ] X . Wei , P . Lucey , S . Morgan , and S . Sridharan .
Predicting Shot Locations in Tennis using Spatiotemporal Data . In DICTA , 2013 .
[ 30 ] X . Wei , P . Lucey , S . Morgan , and S . Sridharan .
Sweet Spot : Using Spatiotemporal Data to Discover and Predict Shots in Tennis . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2013 .
[ 31 ] X . Wei , L . Sha , P . Lucey , S . Morgan , and
S . Sridharan . Large Scale Analysis of Formations in Soccer . In DICTA , 2013 .
[ 32 ] J . Wiens , G . Balakrishnan , J . Brooks , and J . Guttag . To Crash or Not to Crash : A quantitative look at the relationship between the offensive rebounding and transition defense in the NBA . In MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference , 2013 .
[ 33 ] Y . Yue , P . Lucey , P . Carr , A . Bialkowski , and
S . Sridharan . Learning Fine Grained Spatial Models for Dynamic Sports Play Prediction . In ICDM , 2014 .
2215
