Talent Circle Detection in Job Transition Networks
Huang Xu† , Zhiwen Yu†∗ , Jingyuan Yang‡ , Hui Xiong‡∗ , Hengshu Zhu xuhuang@mailnwpueducn , zhiwenyu@nwpueducn , {jingyyan,hxiong}@rutgers.edu , zhuhengshu@baidu.com
†Northwestern Polytechnical University , Xi’an 710072 , PR China
‡Rutgers University , Baidu Research Big Data Lab
1 .
INTRODUCTION
When there is a scarcity of skilled talents , an emerging challenge for human resource management ( HRM ) is how to identify the right talent from the right source in an efficient manner . Professional recruiters usually invest a lot of resources in talent source acquisition , which is focused on identifying , assessing , and engaging the sources of skilled talent candidates through proactive recruiting techniques .
As a proactive recruiting strategy , the use of Online Professional Networks ( OPNs ) , such as LinkedIn1 , for talent recruitment becomes popular in many firms . Indeed , there is rich information about talent career trajectories and the talent skills in OPNs data [ 17 ] , which enables the new paradigm for talent recruitment and job search .
However , the dynamic and complex nature of this talent information imposes significant challenges to identify prospective talent sources from large scale OPNs . More specifically , there are three unique challenges . First , there are too many people available in the network . For example , LinkedIn has reached over 400 million members around the world in October 2015 . Thus , it is essential to provide a method for finding the candidate scope from many possible talent pools . Second , for different types of positions , hiring specialists usually need to consider different talent sources . Third , since people ’s job transition trajectories vary a lot [ 16 ] and lack of regularity , it is necessary to investigate people ’s job transition trajectories at the organizational level . Then , it is possible to capture the hidden recruitment patterns and identify the right talent sources .
ABSTRACT With the high mobility of talent , it becomes critical for the recruitment team to find the right talent from the right source in an efficient manner . The prevalence of Online Professional Networks ( OPNs ) , such as LinkedIn , enables the new paradigm for talent recruitment and job search . However , the dynamic and complex nature of such talent information imposes significant challenges to identify prospective talent sources from large scale professional networks . Therefore , in this paper , we propose to create a job transition network where vertices stand for organizations and a directed edge represents the talent flow between two organizations for a time period . By analyzing this job transition network , it is able to extract talent circles in a way such that every circle includes the organizations with similar talent exchange patterns . Then , the characteristics of these talent circles can be used for talent recruitment and job search . To this end , we develop a talent circle detection model and design the corresponding learning method by maximizing the Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) of inferred probability for the edge existence based on edge weights . Then , the identified circles will be labeled by the representative organizations as well as keywords in job descriptions . Moreover , based on these identified circles , we develop a talent exchange prediction method for talent recommendation . Finally , we have performed extensive experiments on realworld data . The results show that , our method can achieve much higher modularity when comparing to the benchmark approaches , as well as high precision and recall for talent exchange prediction .
CCS Concepts •Information systems → Clustering ;
Keywords People Analytics ; Talent Circle Detection . ∗Corresponding authors .
Figure 1 : Circles in job transition network .
To address these challenges , in this paper , we propose to use an organization level job transition network [ 3 ] , which is generated from people ’s job transition trajectories . In the network , vertices stand for organizations and edges represent
1https://wwwlinkedincom
Computer EngineersFinance Risk AnalystsProjectManagersSoftwareEngineersEgo Node655 the job transition amount among organizations for a time period . Also , the direction of edge indicates the job transition orientation and the weight of edge shows the quantity and the category of employees transferring between organizations . Moreover , if a given organization is used as a center node , an ego network can be formed by selecting all the neighbors and edges between them from job transition networks , as shown in Figure 1 .
By analyzing this job transition network , we define a talent circle on the ego network to help identify prospective talent sources . A talent circle consists of organizations that have similar talent exchange patterns . With talent circles , the source of different types of talents are gathered together and can then be used for recruitment and job search . Specifically , recruiters can find candidates from organizations in most relevant circles . On the other hand , job seekers can locate the position targets in their related circles . For example , in Figure 1 , the neighbor organizations of the ego have been separated into several circles with overlapping nodes or even in hierarchy . These different circles show different talent exchange patterns for talents on specific types of positions , such as financial risk analysts or software engineers . Although the problem of ego network detection has been studied in social media [ 9 ] or co authorship network fields [ 2 ] , job transition network differs from the aforementioned scenarios in several aspects . First , the ego job transition network is much more densely connected and weighted . Since most of the organizations in an ego network have strong connections , the weight is important to distinguish the significance of edges . Second , the job transition network is direction sensitive , because the direction of edges has different meanings in different recruitment scenarios .
In light of the above , we propose a talent circle detection method for finding talent circles in the job transition networks . Specifically , we define node similarity based on talent exchange patterns and infer edge existence probability with hypothetical circles . Then , we compare the inferred probability with edge weight and refine the circle segmentation by maximizing Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG ) . Next , we label detected circles with representative words from job description to provide the semantic meaning for identified circles . Moreover , based on detected circles , we develop a talent exchange prediction method to show the effectiveness of the proposed model . Finally , we have performed extensive experiments on a large amount of real world data . The results show that , our method can achieve much higher modularity when comparing to the benchmark approaches , as well as high precision and recall for talent exchange prediction .
2 . FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW
To address the circle detection problem in job transition network , we design a framework that consists of data crawling , data transforming , modeling , learning and circle labeling . As shown in Figure 2 , the framework consists of three main stages , namely network formation , feature extraction and circle detection .
Network Formation . In this stage , we obtain the raw data and transfer them into a formalized job transition network . The raw data are job experience records , in which each item contains a job title , a corresponding organization , a brief text description of work contents , and the beginning/end date of the job position . Specifically , we first crawl professional profiles from OPNs and transfer the inner resume into job transition trajectories by joining successive working experience items . Then , we aggregate all the trajectories into a weighted and directed network [ 21 ] at the organizational level . Finally , the ego network is defined as a subnetwork that consists of the neighbors of a specific node .
Figure 2 : The framework of talent circle detection .
Feature Extraction . In this stage , we define similarity features according to the job transitions of nodes and the similarities between nodes . Specifically , we classify job titles into categories based on the job description posted by corresponding employees . Intuitively , organizations that exchange more employees and have more common preferences in job type distribution should be more similar to each other . Furthermore , organizations have homogeneous interactions with the ego node should be more similar than heterogeneous ones . Thus , the features used in similarity measurement can be derived from two aspects : aggregated and ego centric personnel exchange . Specifically , aggregated personnel exchange features consist of job transition patterns centered by the node from all its neighbors ; and ego centric features consist of job transition patterns between nodes and the ego node . These features can capture the hiring characteristics of the organization . Here , the similarity is defined as the multiplicative inverse of Euclidean distance between nodes . Circle Detection . In this stage , we conduct model learning process to determine node segmentation . In the model , we first put each node into one hypothetical circle and calculate the node circle belonging coefficient based on the node similarity . Then , we remove a node from circles which it belongs to and then add it into other circles according to the level of belongingness and circle size . After that , we infer the possibility of edge existence based on the assumption that , if two nodes with high similarity and appear in tightly connected circles , an edge will be more possibly generated between them . Finally , we compare the inferred probability with edge weight by a customized version of NDCG and determine whether to accept the segmentation or not . The learning process is initiated as a single node circle sets and iterates until there is no update of objective function . After circle detection , we label the circles with top related organizations and keywords from job description . In particular , the learned circles can be further used for recruitment related applications , such as talent exchange prediction .
3 . JOB TRANSITION NETWORK
In this section , we describe how to build the weighted job transition network , and how to extract features for measuring the similarity between nodes .
OPNs Resume RecordsJob Transition SequenceTransition NetworkNetwork FormationFeature ExtractionAggregated FeatureEgo centric FeatureBelonging CoefficientNatural Weight Neighbor SequenceProbability InferringTemporal Circle SegmentationInferred Probability Neighbor SequenceSelectorNormalize Discounted Cumulative GainCircle SegmentationCircle DetectionCircle Labeling656 3.1 Preliminaries
We use a weighted and directed graph G =< V , E , W > to model job transitions between organizations for a time period ( eg , in 12 months ) . Specifically , each node vi ∈ V ( i = 1 , 2 , , N ) represents an organization , which could be a company , a university or a government department , etc . A directed edge ei,j ∈ E from vi to vj stands for the aggregated job transition from organization vi to vj . Moreover , the indegree ( or outdegree ) deg−(vi ) ( or deg+(vi ) ) of node vi is the number of edges ended at ( or started from ) vi .
Figure 3 : Directed and weighted ego network .
Application Oriented Node Degree . In recruitment , different application scenarios concern different edge directions . For example , if the task is to discover where to find out candidates for a specific position in a company , the historical incoming transitions of that company are appropriate references . However , when job seekers urge to know where to find the next job , they usually need to check the out going transitions from the current company they are working for , and find out some companies which are ready for recruitment of qualified positions . Therefore , we use different degree definitions in these two scenarios . Specifically , we use deg(vi ) to represent appropriate node degree while developing model . In the application of recruiting candidates , it is more meaningful to locate the source where employees come from , such that we set deg(vi ) = deg−(vi ) , where the edge weight and transfer amount are calculated based on the selected direction of transitions . Accordingly , we set deg(vi ) = deg+(vi ) in the application of job position locating . As a result , the model is general for satisfying both application scenarios when using corresponding degree definition . Edge Weight Definition . For a node vi and its neighbors {vj , j = 1 , 2 , , deg(vi)} , weight wi,j ∈ W of edge ei,j is defined as the job transition percentage between vi and vj within a given time period . More precisely , we use ni to denote the total number of transitions from ( or to , depends on the application scenario ) a node . The edge weight is then calculated as wi,j =
τi,j ni
,
( 1 ) where τi,j is the amount of transitions between vi and vj . Note that , since we are only interested in one of the directions in our model for each scenario , edges will not be duplicated used in weight calculation . Furthermore , because the nodes in job transition network are densely connected , the weight is a critical indicator to distinguish the significance of edges . Thus we take the edge weight as an important determinant in both node similarity measurement and circle detection process .
Ego Network . The ego network in talent circle detection is a subset of the job transition network . Specifically , given a node u as the center node , the ego network is constituted of all the neighbors of u . For example , as shown in Figure 3 , the neighbor node set ( ie , black nodes ) in ellipses forms the ego network . In particular , different application scenarios require different edge sets . The left side of Figure 3 shows a network that is suitable for identifying talent source of the ego node , and the right side network is appropriate for jobseekers to reduce job search scope when chasing a new job . Note that , because the transition patterns should not be limited in the ego network , edge weights and transitions in the ego network are measured based on the whole network G , but not measured by the traffic of subset nodes . Moreover , u is not included in its ego network . We use notation G ⊆ G to denote the ego network in our model . 3.2 Node Similarity
Intuitively , the similarity of two organizations could be derived from profile information , such as whether they are belonging to the same sector , located in the same city , or whether they have common business scope .
However , static profile based similarity is not suitable in talent circle detection from the perspective of recruitment . Ideally , the similarity should reflect employees’ transition characteristics between organizations . In other words , organizations that share more job transitions and have more common preferences in job category distribution should be more similar to each other . Furthermore , since the primary goal is to find out the circles of the ego , organizations which have homogeneous interaction with ego should be more similar than heterogeneous ones . Thus , in this paper , the similarity is defined based on the historical job transitions . Specifically , the features used for similarity measurement can be derived from two aspects , namely aggregated and ego centric personnel exchange .
Aggregated Personnel Exchange . This is defined as the categorical distribution of transitions to a node . In this paper , job positions in transitions are divided into 10 categories according to job title and the corresponding job description ( the details are discussed in Section 61 ) The total amount of job transition ni is separated into {ni,c , c = 1 , 2 , , 10} , where ni,c is the amount of transitions in job category c . Then , the transition proportion of each job title category with respect to the total transitions to organization vi forms a categorical distribution vector
αi = [ α1 i , α2 i , , α10 i ] , αc i = ni,c ni
.
( 2 )
The vector captures the constitution of employees attracted ( or offered in the application of recruitment ) by the organization . In Figure 4 , the solid lines illustrate the source of aggregated features of in coming traffics . From the perspective of recruitment , two organizations with similar α may have analogous staffing strategies . Since the edge and the corresponding weight stand for the fraction of transitions between nodes , aggregated exchange could be treated as the extension of all the edges . Moreover , because the weight of edge is used as the objective in our model , it will be ignored in similarity measurement .
Ego centric Personnel Exchange . This is the categorical distribution of transitions interfered by the ego node . From the viewpoint of the ego node , organizations may act as similar roles in talent exchange flows , even though they are different in staffing strategies . Specifically , two organizations are similar when they offering ( or attracting ) the same type of talents ( eg hardware engineer ) to ( or from ) the ego . Although the center node is excluded in its ego network , the wu,iwu,kvivjvkwu,jwi,jwj,kwu,iuwu,kvivkwi,jwj,kwu,jEgoEgou657 To build up the metrics of our model , we first define the concepts of natural ordered neighbor sequence , circle and belonging coefficient as follows .
Natural Ordered Neighbor Sequence . Given a node vi , the natural ordered neighbor sequence Ai is the descending ordered list of neighbors according to the edge weight {wi,k|ei,k ∈ E} . Formally , we have
Ai = ( , vj , vj+1 , ) , where wi,j ≥ wi,j+1 . We use Ai,k to refer to the k th node in Ai . For example , if vi connects to {v1 , v2 , v3} and weights among them satisfy ( wi,2 > wi,1 , wi,1 > wi,3 ) , then Ai = ( v2 , v1 , v3 ) . The neighbors with the same edge weight are arranged by the indexing ( eg , alphabetic ) order . When constructing the model for a specific organization , the ego node is excluded from the neighbor list .
Talent Circle . A circle is a subset of neighbors of an ego node , where nodes within a circle are closely connected and similar to each other . We use {Cm ∈ C} to denote circles , where m = 1 , 2 , , M and Cm ⊆ V . Intuitively , on the one hand , if the circles are appropriately detected , nodes with strong connections should more likely be settled in the same circle than the nodes with weak connections . On the other hand , from the perspective of the node similarity , similar nodes are more likely to appear in the same circle . Meanwhile , circles could be hierarchical , which means circles with strongly connected nodes could be contained in circles with weakly connected nodes . Moreover , circles could also be overlapping . In other words , a node can belong to more than one circle .
Belonging Coefficient . Since circles may be overlapping , a node could more tightly belong to a circle than another circle . The belonging coefficient is defined as the tightness strength of a node to a circle . Specifically , we use a belonging matrix Ui,m ∈ R(0 ≤ Ui,m ≤ 1 , i ∈ 1 , 2 , , N , m ∈ 1 , 2 , , M ) to denote the belonging strength of node vi to circle Cm , and a larger value of Ui,m to indicate a tighter belongingness . In our model , Ui,m is defined as the average mutual similarity between node vi and the rest of the nodes in circle Cm , as shown in Equation 5 . When there is only one node in a circle , the belonging coefficient is assigned to 1 . In particular , the belonging coefficient affects the inferring of the edge existence probability in the model as well as the node circle belonging dynamics in the learning process .
Sim(vi , vj ) .
( 5 )
Ui,m =
1
|Cm| − 1 vj∈Cm,j=i
4.2 Model Formalization
According to our assumptions , a pair of nodes within a circle has a possibility to generate an edge , and the generated edge weight is determined by two factors : the number of common circles they belong to , and the belonging coefficient of the node pair to the common circles . In reality , if two companies exchange employees more frequently , they should be more likely to be placed in the common circles . We use an iterative method to approximate the real segmentation and start from a simple temporary status where circles are hypothetically existing . Accordingly , the probability of two nodes forming an edge is defined based on node circle belonging relation in the temporary status .
In a temporary status , all nodes are assigned into circles . We define an indicator ρ(i , j ) to capture the edge
Figure 4 : Similarity measurement illustration . relationship between nodes and the ego is a determinative factor in circle detection . Particularly , two nodes are more likely to co appear in a circle when they have common interaction patterns with the ego node . In fact , two organizations may be grouped into the same circle because they feed the ego with the same category of employees , even though they do not have the same organization scale or in the same sector . Ego centric features are defined based on αi , while the transitions between node u and vi are considered . We use µi to denote the categorical distribution vector of transitions between u and vi , and then define the feature vector as
βi = [ β1 i , β2 i , , β10 i
] , βc i =
· wu,i ,
µc i αc u
( 3 ) where αu is the aggregated feature and wu,i is the weight of edge between u and vi . Each dotted line in Figure 4 illustrates a dimension of ego centric features of node vi and vj between the ego . βi is the fine grained transition categorical distribution normalized by aggregated transition categorical distribution . Indeed , two similar vectors indicate they interact with the ego in similar way , since the vector encodes the interaction pattern between the ego and organization . Based on the feature vectors αi and βi , similarity Sim(vi , vj ) is defined on the merged vector Fi = [ αi , βi ] and Fj = [ αj , βj ] , as shown in Equation 4 .
Sim(vi , vj ) =
1
||Fi − Fj||2
.
( 4 )
4 . CIRCLE DETECTION MODEL
In this section , we introduce the details of our model for talent circle detection in the ego job transition network . 4.1 Basic Concepts
In this paper , we design a generative model to detect overlapping and hierarchical talent circles . As in the ego job transition network , two organizations should be assigned to a circle if they are closely connected and also similar to each other . The basic assumptions of our model have three aspects . First , two nodes have a possibility to form an edge when they are co appearing in a circle . Second , circles that contain stronger connected nodes lead to a higher possibility to form edges among contained nodes . Third , two nodes in a circle with higher belongingness also have a higher edge existence possibility .
The probability of edges is generated based on the above assumptions . We then compare the inferred probability with the edge weight in an ordered manner . The objective of the model is to maximize the weighted similarity between the weight order of neighbors and the inferred probability of edges around an organization .
αi1αi2αi9αi10αj1αj2βi1βi10…αj9αj10…βi2βi9βj1βj2βj9βj10Fi =[αi,βi]Fj=[αj,βj]Egovivju658 existence possibility ( or weight strength ) between node vi and vj . Specifically , the value of ρ(i , j ) is high if vi and vj are put into a common circle and have high belonging coefficients to the circle . For each node vj which satisfies |{Cm|{vi , vj} ⊆ Cm}| > 0 , ρ(i , j ) is defined as follows :
ρ(i , j ) = exp{
Ui,m · Uj,m
Sim(i , j)−1 − Tm + η
} , ( 6 )
{Cm|{vi,vj}⊆Cm} where Tm is the minimal Uj,m for all the vj ∈ Cm , and η is the maximal Tm for all circles Cm . In other words , Tm is a similarity threshold of circle Cm , which indicates the tightness of nodes within a circle . η is used to guarantee that the value of ( −Tm+η ) is positive and has a higher value when Tm gets smaller . A smaller value of Tm reduces the value of ρ(i , j ) , such that a pair of nodes in lower similarity threshold circles generates lower ρ(i , j ) value . On the contrary , Ui,m and Uj,m guarantee that ρ(i , j ) has a high value if both of the belonging coefficients are high .
Similar to the natural ordered neighbor sequence Ai , we arrange all the neighbors of node vi according to ρ(i , j ) in descending order as Bi = ( , vj , vj+1 , ) , where ρi,j ≥ ρi,j+1 . Let we use Bi,k to refer to k th node in Bi . Ideally , given a pair of nodes ( vj , vl ) , if wi,j > wi,l and the edge weight is well inferred , it should have ρi,j > ρi,l . The opposite relation indicates wrongly assigned circles . Thus we treat the sequence difference between Ai and Bi as the goodness of circle division . If wi,j > wi,l and ρi,j < ρi,l , then the pair of nodes ( vj , vl ) is an inversion of Ai and Bi . The inversion number is the total inversions between two sequences as inv(vi ) = |{(vj , vl)|wi,j > wi,l ∧ ρi,j < ρi,l}| . According to the definition , there is no inversion when edge weights are perfectly inferred . In addition , the more error exists , the larger inversion number will be conducted .
However , the calculation of inversion number is computational complex , because the length and elements of Ai and Bi are not always match . Fortunately , since what we need is a metric that can measure the difference of two weighted sequences , we propose to use Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain ( NDCG)[7 ] for measuring the differences instead . Specifically , NDCG is a measure of ranking quality in information retrieval by calculating the weighted ranking results according to ideal ranking lists . When replacing document with neighbors , and relevance with edge weight in the definition , NDCG is suitable for measuring the difference between Bi and Ai . The basic assumptions of NDCG can be grafted on to measure sequence difference smoothly :
• Highly weighted neighbors are more meaningful when appearing earlier in Bi .
• Highly weighted neighbors are more meaningful than marginally weighted neighbors , which are in turn more meaningful than unconnected nodes .
By the migration of conceptions , Discounted Cumulative Gain ( DCG ) of node vi is defined as follows . deg(vi ) k=1
DCGi =
2wi,k − 1 log2 ( k + 1 )
,
( 7 ) where k is the sequence order index in Bi,k . According to the definition , DCGi increases when a node with higher weighted edge be moved before a lower one in Bi . In other words , DCGi is high if Bi is close to Ai , especially when the prefix of Bi is close to the prefix of Ai . Ideal DCGi ( IDCGi ) is calculated based on the neighbor sequence of Ai,k , and it is the upper bound of DCGi .
N DCGi is then defined as normalizing DCGi by IDCGi . Note that Bi is the list of neighbors that co appear with vi in circles , so the length of Bi is usually not equal to |Ai| in reality . Typically , Bi may contain many elements as suffix that not belongs to Ai . For example , if nodes in Ai are ( v1 , v2 ) , then B i = ( v1 , v2 ) will have the same N DCGi . Thus we use set difference Ai Bi to penalize it , and define objective function of our model in Equation 8 : i = ( v1 , v2 , v3 , v4 ) and B
N i=1
FU = ni i ni
(
· DCGi IDCGi
· ( 1 − |Ai Bi|
|Ai ∪ Bi| ) ) ,
( 8 ) where U is the belonging coefficient matrix and acts as a dynamic parameter in the learning process . Meanwhile , FU is related to the proportion of transitions such that a larger node has a higher priority .
5 . MODEL LEARNING ALGORITHM
In this paper , we propose to use a bottom up learning algorithm starting from a simple node circle belonging status to maximize objective Equation 8 , as shown in Algorithm 1 . In the initial step , each node vi is assigned to a corresponding circle Ci , such that Ci = {vi} , i = 1 , 2 , , N . Ui,m is assigned as an identity matrix , since the node circle belonging coefficient is 1 if there is only one node in the circle . For each node , we first compute the natural ordered neighbor sequence {Ai} according to {wi,k|ei,k ∈ E} . As illustrated in the left side of Figure 5 , at step 0 , U 0 is an identity matrix that encodes initial node circle belonging relationships .
Figure 5 : Learning process illustration .
In the learning process , the algorithm iteratively remove a node from circles it belongs to and add the node into other circles to maximize the objective function in Equation 8 . In each step , the leaving and joining circles are determined by both the belonging coefficient and the circle size . Let we m} to denote node circle use notation N C t membership in iteration t , which is a binary version of nonzero elements in the corresponding row of Ui,m . The learning process then changes N C t i by adding and removing nodes in circles , and evaluates the value of FU of the temporal status to decide whether accept or reject the change . m|vi ∈ C t i = {C t
Specifically , in iteration t , for each node vi , we first calculate the edge existence possibility according to Equation 6 , vivjvkcxcyczcwvlvivjvkcxcyczcwvl1000010000100001040020000400400100030U0Ut659 and get ordered neighbor sequence Bi . Then , we adjust the node circle membership as follows :
Algorithm 1 Talent circle detection by maximizing NDCG Require : Similarity matrix SIM , IDCG , Ai , Maximal it
1 . Remove vi from drm circles . drm is determined by Bi , belongingness , and the number of circles which vi belongs to . If Bi contains more nodes that not belong to Ai , then vi should be removed from more circles . Meanwhile , the node should leave from lower Ui,m circles in higher priority . Let Bi\Ai denote the set difference of Bi and Ai , then we define drm = |N C t i| · |Bi\Ai| |Bi|
.
Next , we delete vi from drm circles by randomly selecting circles in {m|m ∈ N C t i} according to Pr(i , m ) which is the inverse order of Ui,m , as Pr(i , m ) = Ui,m 2 . Add vi to dadd circles . To increase the value of FU , vi should be added to more circles while Ai has many items not belonging to Bi . We define the number of circles to add as m Ui,m
.
Ensure : Node circle belonging coefficient matrix U eration steps ϕ Initial : Ui,k ← I , N C 0 while F changed in last ϕ steps do i ← {vi} , F ← 0 i,j , then Arrange Bi
Calculate ρt for Node vi ∈ V do i| · |Bi\Ai| |Bi| drm ← |N C t rmc ← sample drm circles from N Ci by Pr(i , m ) N C t i ← setdif f ( N Ci , rmc ) dadd ← 1|N Ci| ( i |N Ci| − |N Ci| ) · |Ai\Bi| |Ai| i , adc ) i ← setunion(N C t adc ← sample dadd circles by Pa(i ) N C t end for Calculare Ui,j F t U ← FU ( N C t , Bi , SIM , IDCG ) if F t U > F then F ← F t N Ci ← N C t
U i dadd =
1
|N Ci| (
|N Ci| − |N Ci| ) · |Ai\Bi| |Ai|
. end if end while i
Because Ai is much longer than Bi in the early stage of iteration , dadd is usually too large to converge . This may trigger the explosion of circles that vi belongs 1|N Ci| to limit the scale of circle to . Therefore , we set candidates . We first add nodes to circles with large size and high belongingness , and avoid adding nodes to empty circles . So vi is added to dadd circles by i} according randomly selecting circles in {m|m /∈ N C t |Cj| |Ck| . to probability distribution Pa(i ) = k /∈N Ct i
3 . Calculate temporary ρt tion 6 ) according to N C t we form Bt i by ordering ρt i,j . i,j . We calculate ρt i,j ( Equai for all neighbors of vi . Then ,
After the node circle removing and adding step , we update Ui,m for all the node circle pairs and then calculate F t U > F , we accept the new based on Ui,m , Ai and Bt circles , and set N Ci = N C t U . The iteration repeats until F becoming stable after sufficient steps . When the iteration stops , Ui,m contains the detected node circle belonging relationship . i . If F t i and F = F t
U home ” are neglected . Table 1 shows the detailed statistics of our data set .
There are three steps of data pre processing , including job transitions transformation , job title categorization and transition network initialization .
Table 1 : Job transition record statistics . Data
Data
Capacity 1,980,000 2,123,383 649,076
Job title Category
Average flow
Capacity 284,245
10 30
Resume
Transition
Organization
Job Transition Transformation . Items in job resume are transformed into job transitions by joining successive job record pairs . Specifically , we sort the resume items by starting time in ascending order , and then compare the end date to identify job hooping activities , as shown in Figure 6 . If the end date of record j satisfies etj < etj+1 , then we treat
6 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In this section , we evaluate our talent circle detection model with extensive experiments on real world data . 6.1 Experimental Data
In this paper , we use a representative real world data set from one of the largest commercial OPNs , to study the circle detection problem . Specifically , the data set contains 1.98 million professional profile pages from Sept . 2014 to Dec . 2015 . Each page contains a job experience list in which each item shows the job title , the organization , the time period in a monthly granularity and a brief text about the job description [ 17 ] . According to the URL of organizations in resume records , there are 649,076 organizations in total . Since we are focusing on job hopping behaviors among organizations , work experience records with keywords indicating freelancers like “ freelance ” , “ self employed ” and “ work at
Figure 6 : Transforming resume into job transition . record pair j and j + 1 as a transition , as case c of j + 1 in the figure . If the end date of j is later than the start date of j + 1 , then we ignore the record pair j and j + 1 because the j + 1 time period is included by the period j ( overlapping ) , as case b in Figure 6 . Otherwise , as in case a in the figure , we check record j + 2 ( if it exists ) , and repeat the process until there is no more j + 1 item . The job transition date is set as cjDatej+1stjetjstj+1astj+1bstj+1cetj+1cetj+1aetj+1bab660 the start date of successor and the job title is determined by the title of predecessor when it changed during a transition . Common transition date lasts from 1970s to the date when we collect data , and most of the transitions happening after 2000s . As shown in Figure 7 , job transition frequency has a clear cycle of 12 months , so we use 12 month as a time window in our experiments . metric in community detection [ 15 ] . Since the original definition of modularity is defined on non overlapping communities , in our experiments we use an extension introduced in [ 12 ] . Specifically , we first choose two latest algorithms as baselines , namely Coordinate Ascent ( CA ) from social network analysis [ 9 ] and Simulated Annealing ( SA ) from co authorship network analysis [ 2 ] . Meanwhile , we choose two classic algorithms as baselines , namely Random Walks ( RW ) based community detection [ 13 ] and Edge Betweenness ( EB ) based method [ 11 ] . Since there are some differences between network definitions , we follow the implication of RW and EB in [ 5 ] , and from original websites34 of four methods , respectively .
Figure 7 : Aggregated job transition frequency .
Job Title Categorization . On professional profiles , users are free to specify their job titles , and usually write In total , there a short text description of their work [ 1 ] . are 284,245 different titles in our data set . In our experiments , we categorized the job titles into a few dozens of classes according to job functions by using online API from a third party tool called Autocoder 2 , which can classify job related content such as resumes and job description to a standardized hierarchy of occupation categories known as the Occupational Information Network . After that , we manually classified titles into 142 classes and further integrated into 10 major categories , as shown in Table 2 . Table 2 : Job title category . Category High Tech
Finance
Professional and Business Services
Transportation Consumer Goods
Goods Producing Industries
Public Administration Leisure and Hospitality
Education and Health Services
Manufacturing
#Subclass #Title 54,091 20,195 75,565 7,510 11,548 7,850 27,994 32,553 36,612 10,327
11 10 21 6 14 6 22 19 14 19
Transition network initialization . We aggregated all the transitions at the organizational level and formed a job transition network . All the transitions from organization i to organization j form a direct edge starting from i and ending at j with the transition volume ni,j . In average , there are 30 transitions between two organizations , and 84 % of the flows happen among 20 % of the nodes . Among all the transitions , approximately a quarter of the transitions took place within the same organization , and we ignored these loops because the ego is excluded in talent source identification . 6.2 Modularity based Evaluation
To evaluate the performance of our model in terms of circle detection , we compare our model with two state of theart algorithms on modularity [ 10 ] , which is a widely used 2http://wwwonetsocautocodercom/plus/onetmatch
Figure 8 : The comparison results of modularity .
Ui,m by its row sum , ie , U i,m = Ui,m
Because the belongingness is usually normalized to have a summation of 1 , we normalize the belonging coefficient , and we set belonging coefficient of nodes as the multiplicative inverse of belonged circles in CA and SA . The coefficient is set to 1 in RW and EB since there is no corresponding definitions in these two methods . Since there is a modularity in each ego network , we pay more attention to the performance on majority egos and comparing the corresponding results of ego in other algorithms , as shown in Figure 8 . m Ui,m
The result is based on the experiments on 7,000 egos which are the top 10 percent nodes in degree . There is an average of 5.6 circles and 3.1 organizations in each circle . As shown in Figure 8 , the average modularity are 0.6376 ( Our Model ) , 0.5536 ( CA ) , 0.5652 ( SA ) , 0.5464 ( RW ) , and 0.5420 ( EB ) , respectively . As a result , our method outperforms all other methods at least 7.2 % in average . The majority of results of our method are also higher comparing to other methods in despite of few outliers with low modularity . The results clearly indicate that our method is more accurate for circle detection in terms of modularity in the weighted and densely connected job transition networks . 6.3 Circle Case Analysis
According to the model assumptions , organizations within a circle should have common interactions with the center organization and also exchange similar employees among each other . Thus different circles have different job transition characteristics . To this end , we select the results of several organizations for analysis .
To interpret the results , we rank the organizations in the circle according to the belonging coefficient and select top 3http://cseiitkgpacin/resgrp/cnerg/circle/ 4http://csewebucsdedu/ jmcauley/
Job Transition Frequency2010/012011/012012/012013/012014/0103050709MonthFrequency2012/012012/12ModularityMethodsOur ModelCASARWEBRWEBOur ModelCASA661 ones as representative organizations . Besides , we extract related keywords from job description to facilitate the interpretation . We trace job transitions between ego and the set of companies in the circle , and extract job descriptions of these transitions . All the descriptions related to a circle are joined into a document , and thus a set of documents form as a corpus . After a removal of stop words , we arranged the words in a document according term frequency inverse document frequency ( TF IDF ) , and manually select several representative keywords in top 10 % TF IDF words . engineer , recruiters can refer to the organizations appearing in circles which have labels in “ computer software ” , “ software engineer ” or “ programmer ” , etc . It is possible to precisely locate target organization by using the circles .
Figure 10 : The feature distribution of typical circles of Citi bank .
Figure 9 : Circles of AOL . Organizations in circle ( A ) provide quantitative analysts . ( B ) provides digital marketing specialists . ( C ) provides customer operation support . ( D ) provides sales marketing analysts .
As shown in Table 3 , we display the representative organizations and descriptive keywords for three ego examples , namely Citi Bank , AOL , and Accenture respectively . Four circles of each ego have been listed with corresponding keywords for job title description . For instance , since Citi is a corporate financial organization , most of the organizations in the Citi circles are focus on financial services . Although circle 1 , 2 , 3 of Citi are banking or related financial consulting services , the characteristics of talent sources from each circle are very different . For example , according the description of keywords , circle 1 mainly involves the talents for tasks such as corporate finance or project management , change management . While circle 2 focuses on job applicants specialized in corporate and financial risk management tasks , and circle 3 deals with talents for trading services , capital markets , or investment banking . The companies in circle 4 are mainly in IT services industry and the talent source from this circle are focusing on quantitative research , desk strategist , and quantitative analytics for Citi bank .
In summary , most of the companies in the circles for the ego are in the similar industry of the ego company , but different circle shows different needs of talent specialties . Similar observations can be found on the media and advertising company AOL ( as illustrated in Figure 9 ) and the very successful consulting company Accenture . Keywords of job title summary based on the the top keywords of description is also listed in the last column of the result table . 6.4 Talent Exchange Prediction
One of the major application of talent circle detection in job transition network is to identify the source organization for selecting candidates in hiring . In fact , the detected circles are appropriate references for hiring different types of employees . For example , when the goal is to hire software
However , enumerating related labels is inefficient when selecting circles for a job title category . As users are free to describe their works , there are too many alternative words for a title . There is a high possibility of mismatching by simply indexing keywords to solve the problem . Therefore , we design a quantitative method to identify related circles by ranking the average feature vectors . Specifically , the average feature of a circle Cm is defined as a vector F Cm where each dimension is defined as
F C i m =
1 |Cm|
αi j . vj∈Cm
For a given ego , F Cm can be normalized by subtracting the average circle feature 1 m F Cm , where M represents the M number of circles . The normalized F Cm is treated as the “ feature of a circle ” . Figure 10 shows the typical normalized circle feature distribution of ego “ Citi ” , in which each area is the value of a circle feature in 10 dimensions . It indicates that different circles have different feature peak dimension combination [ 20 ] . This phenomenon also appears in circles of other egos . It suggests that average feature value is a reasonable way to identify different circle properties . We can then rank the circle features by different dimensions and select top ranked circles as related candidates .
Talent Exchange Prediction Problem . This problem refers to predict where employees will leave for from an ego , based on the detected circles . In real job market , majority of employees will go to the same set of companies where the forerunner in the same job type went , because the sector usually keeps stable and forms some specific job hooping trajectories . Although other employees may go to other companies , it is highly possible that they still stay in organizations which have similar labor demand . Therefore , we predict that the employees in a given category will go to the circles that labeled in the same category . By taking advantage of circle features , we design a simple talent exchange prediction mechanism .
For each given job title , we predict where employees with the title will leave for . Specifically , we first rank the circle feature [ 22 , 19 ] according to the corresponding dimension in a descending order , and then select companies in top circles as the predicted destination . We use the job transition destination from the ego in the next year as ground truth . The prediction and evaluation procedures have three stages .
ABDIDGVodafoneNetAppMicroStrategyPhotonAdvertising.comMeeboTechCrunchPOPSUGARHPMillennial MediaDiscovery Networks BeneluxTownsquareMediaComcastWSJHearstAbrilLos Angeles TimesAmdocsAdconionMedia GroupRadio OneWundermanFoursquareLast.fmThomas CookAOLCRelated ValueCircle Feature DimensionConsumer GoodsEducation and HealthFinanceGoods Producing IndustriesHigh TechLeisure and HospitalityManufacturingProfessional and BusinessPublic AdministrationTransportation662 Ego Circle
Top Organization
Top Keywords
Table 3 : Top circles : representative organization and keywords .
Job Title Summary Corporate finance , Project management , Change management Corporate/financial risk management Trading and Capital markets , Investment banking Quantitative analytics , Desk strategist
Digital marketing
Sales marketing , Digital sales Customer Sales support operation , operation and
Web analytics , Quantitative research project
Business analyst , ERP , CRM , Enterprise Architecture Technology management Financial and Accounting services System or Enterprise integration and implementation the precision and recall depend on the number of circles we used in prediction . We find that , the precision firstly increases with the increase of circles , and then reaches a peak of 73 % in 4 5 circles , while it finally decreases when the number of circles larger than 6 . The recall increases consistently with the number of circles , and stays stable after 6 circles in 65 % . The results indicate that a majority of employees in a given job category will leave for companies that appears in the circles with corresponding characteristics . It suggests that the detected circles are appropriate node separation from the perspective of talent exchange flow .
7 . RELATED WORK
In this section , we review two categories of literatures that are related to this paper , namely research on data mining for recruitment analysis , and research on circle detection in social networks .
Data mining for recruitment analysis . Recent years have witnessed the increasing popularity of using data mining techniques for addressing human resource management ( HRM ) problems [ 14 ] . The recruitment process is one of the important sub domains of the HRM . Although many classic data mining tasks , such as classification , association rules and clustering [ 4 , 6 ] , have been performed to recruitment for personnel selection and talent prediction , only few existing work is focus on the analysis of job transition network for recruitment . For example , [ 3 ] proposed a real time system for mining job related patterns from social media by analyzing the job transition network . [ 17 ] showed a novel approach for modeling the professional similarity by mining professional career trajectories . project , process , management , finance , back office , retail , firmwide , mssql , query , infrastructure stock , corporate , cash , compensation , extract , matlab , realtime , portfolio , oracle , model , data insurance , banker , private , system finance , atic , equity , mortgage , rate , risk , business visual , linear , predict , calculate , curve , java , system , algebra , compute , diagram , variable social , live , media , content , week , brand , advertise , broadband , freelance , independent , local , publish , editor accuracy , analyze , online , metric , sale , customer , website , trend , user response , webdata , revenue , adhoc , analyst , dashboard center , call , service , agent , maintain , quick , complaint , response , issue , communicate , customer , monitor data , report , media , web , strategy , advertise , market , analyze , feedback , hadoop , api , insight , module , benchmark , research , track , response , statistics , techniques technology , enterprise , system , application , communication , defencework , enterprise , architecture agil , management waterfall , employee , execution , procurement , trainer e source , nance , pay , pipeline , workforce , resource digit , advance , project , innovation , deploy , data , interface , module , architecture , technology , crm , methodology , network , database spend , procurement , pension , fi k n a B i t i C
L O A e r u t n e c c A
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
Capco , RBS Markets and International Banking , HSBC , PwC , Lehman Brothers , HSBC Global Banking and Markets , USAA UBS , Credit Suisse , Barclays Investment Bank , Bank of Montreal , Newmark Grubb Knight Frank YES Bank , John Hancock Financial Services , HSBC Private Bank , CHASE Sun Microsystems , Google , Palantir Technologies , D+H , Intel Corporation Millennial Media , POPSUGAR , Discovery Networks Benelux , WSJ , Wunderman DC , Comcast , Townsquare Media Thomas Cook , Foursquare , Last.fm , Radio One , Wunderman
Comcast , Adconion Media Group , Abril , Hearst , Los Angeles Times , Amdocs , WSJ
IDG , Photon , TechCrunch , Vodafone , MicroStrategy , Advertising.com , Meebo , NetApp , Hewlett Packard Enterprise , POPSUGAR
Cognizant , Logica , Deloitte Digital , Hewlett Packard Enterprise , Avanade , Gartner , Gtech Capgemini Consulting , Deloitte , EY , Alexander Mann Solutions , Towers Watson Deloitte , Morgan Stanley , American Express , PwC , Standard Chartered Bank , Alexander Mann Solutions Microsoft , IBM , Google , Oracle , Amazon , Ebay , Cisco , Facebook , Tata Consultancy , CSC , Sopra Steria , EMC , Avanade , Altran
First , for a given ego and title , we rank circle features by corresponding dimension in descending manner . Then we select organizations in top ranked circles as candidates . Finally , we compare predicted organization candidates with the companies which employees in the same title category leave for in the next 12 months .
Figure 11 : The precision and recall performance of talent exchange prediction .
We measure the precision and recall to evaluate the performance of talent exchange prediction . The circles are detected based on the data that have transitions during January 2013 and December 2013 , and test data are the transitions during January 2014 and December 2014 . Figure 11 shows the average , upper and lower bound of precision and recall for 10 job categories of Citi . As shown in the result ,
Precision and RecallNumber of CirclesPrecisionRecall12345678663 Circle detection in social networks . Social circle detection in ego networks is first proposed by McAuley and Leskovec [ 8 , 9 ] . They proposed the node clustering problem and developed a model for identifying the circles including both network structure and user profile information from several popular social networks . Recently , [ 2 ] applied the techniques of automatic circle detection in an ego network on the field of co authorship network by proposing an unsupervised method that combines both various node features and node similarity measures . Also , [ 18 ] used a multi view clustering method for automatically detecting the social circles . Due to the different background in the job transition networks , although we have similar problem of discovering circles in the ego networks , the node features and node structures are very different . Therefore , different objective function and learning process have to be designed specifically for the job network scenario . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first attempt to detect circles for each company in a job transition network . We believe the findings from our model can further help to enhance the effectiveness of human resource tasks , such as staffing .
8 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we investigated how to identify the right talent sources for recruitment from Online Professional Networks ( OPNs ) . Along this line , we first created a job transition network based on job transition trajectories at the organization level . Then , we proposed a talent circle detection model for extracting talent circles from the job transition network in a way that every circle includes the organizations with similar talent exchange patterns . With the help of these talent circles , the organizations can find the right talent for recruitment and the job seekers can locate suitable jobs for themselves . Moreover , based on these identified cycles , we developed a talent exchange prediction method to predict the possible destination companies for the job hopping employees . As shown in the experimental results on real world OPNs data , our approach outperformed the benchmark methods in terms of modularity .
9 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported in part by the National Basic Research Program of China ( No . 2015CB352400 ) , the National Natural Science Foundation of China ( No . 71329201 , 61373119 , 61332005 , 61402369 ) , Microsoft , and the Rutgers 2015 Chancellor ’s Seed Grant Program .
10 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Bekkerman and M . Gavish . High precision phrase based document classification on a modern scale . In SIGKDD . ACM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] T . Chakraborty , S . Patranabis , P . Goyal , and A . Mukherjee . On the formation of circles in co authorship networks . In SIGKDD . ACM , 2015 .
[ 3 ] Y . Cheng , Y . Xie , Z . Chen , A . Agrawal ,
A . Choudhary , and S . Guo . Jobminer : A real time system for mining job related patterns from social media . In SIGKDD . ACM , 2013 .
[ 4 ] C F Chien and L F Chen . Data mining to improve personnel selection and enhance human capital : A case study in high technology industry . Expert Systems with applications , 2008 .
[ 5 ] G . Csardi and T . Nepusz . The igraph software package for complex network research . InterJournal , 2006 .
[ 6 ] H . Jantan , A . R . Hamdan , and Z . A . Othman .
Knowledge discovery techniques for talent forecasting in human resource application . World Academy of Science , Engineering and Technology , Penang , Malaysia , 2009 .
[ 7 ] K . J¨arvelin and J . Kek¨al¨ainen . Cumulated gain based evaluation of ir techniques . TOIS , 2002 .
[ 8 ] J . Leskovec and J . J . Mcauley . Learning to discover social circles in ego networks . In NIPS , 2012 .
[ 9 ] J . Mcauley and J . Leskovec . Discovering social circles in ego networks . TKDD , 2014 .
[ 10 ] M . E . Newman . Modularity and community structure in networks . PNAS , 2006 .
[ 11 ] M . E . Newman and M . Girvan . Finding and evaluating community structure in networks . Physical review E , 2004 .
[ 12 ] V . Nicosia , G . Mangioni , V . Carchiolo , and
M . Malgeri . Extending the definition of modularity to directed graphs with overlapping communities . Journal of Statistical Mechanics : Theory and Experiment , 2009 .
[ 13 ] P . Pons and M . Latapy . Computing communities in large networks using random walks . In Computer and Information Sciences ISCIS 2005 . Springer , 2005 . [ 14 ] S . Strohmeier and F . Piazza . Domain driven data mining in human resource management : A review of current research . Expert Systems with Applications , 2013 .
[ 15 ] Z . Wang , D . Zhang , X . Zhou , D . Yang , Z . Yu , and
Z . Yu . Discovering and profiling overlapping communities in location based social networks . IEEE Transactions on Systems , Man , and Cybernetics : Systems , 44(4):499–509 , 2014 .
[ 16 ] H . Xu , Z . Yu , H . Xiong , B . Guo , and H . Zhu . Learning career mobility and human activity patterns for job change analysis . In ICDM , pages 1057–1062 . IEEE , 2015 .
[ 17 ] Y . Xu , Z . Li , A . Gupta , A . Bugdayci , and A . Bhasin .
Modeling professional similarity by mining professional career trajectories . In SIGKDD . ACM , 2014 . [ 18 ] Y . Yang , C . Lan , X . Li , B . Luo , and J . Huan .
Automatic social circle detection using multi view clustering . In CIKM . ACM , 2014 .
[ 19 ] Z . Yu , Z . Wang , H . He , J . Tian , X . Lu , and B . Guo .
Discovering information propagation patterns in microblogging services . TKDD , 10(1):7 , 2015 .
[ 20 ] Z . Yu , H . Xu , Z . Yang , and B . Guo . Personalized travel package with multi point of interest recommendation based on crowdsourced user footprints . IEEE Transactions on Human Machine Systems , 46(1):151–158 , Feb 2016 .
[ 21 ] J . Zhao , J . Wu , X . Feng , H . Xiong , and K . Xu .
Information propagation in online social networks : a tie strength perspective . Knowledge and Information Systems , 32(3):589–608 , 2012 .
[ 22 ] H . Zhu , E . Chen , H . Xiong , H . Cao , and J . Tian . Ranking user authority with relevant knowledge categories for expert finding . World Wide Web , 17(5):1081–1107 , 2014 .
664
