Designing Policy Recommendations to Reduce Home
Abandonment in Mexico∗
Klaus Ackermann Monash University klausackermann@monashedu
Eduardo Blancas Reyes Center for Data Science and
Public Policy
University of Chicago edublancas@uchicago.edu
Thomas Anderson Keller
UC San Diego andy@keller.org
Paul van der Boor University of Chicago pvboor@gmail.com
Sue He
University of Virginia syh2s@virginia.edu
Romana Khan
Northwestern University romana.khan@kellogg
northwesternedu
ABSTRACT Infonavit1 , the largest provider of mortgages in Mexico , assists working families to obtain low interest rate housing solutions . An increasingly prevalent problem is home abandonment : when a homeowner decides to leave their property and forego their investment . A major causal factor of this outcome is a mismatch between the homeowner ’s needs , in terms of access to services and employment , and the location characteristics of the home .
This paper describes our collaboration with Infonavit to reduce home abandonment at two levels : develop policy recommendations for targeted improvements in location characteristics , and develop a decision support tool to assist the homeowner in the home location decision . Using 20 years of mortgage history data combined with surveys , census , and location information , we develop a model to predict the probability of home abandonment based on both individual and location characteristics . The model is used to develop a tool that provides Infonavit the ability to give advice to Mexican workers when they apply for a loan , evaluate and improve the locations of new housing developments , and provide data driven recommendations to the federal government to influence local development initiatives and infrastructure investments . The result is improving economic outcomes for the citizens of Mexico by pre emptively identifying at risk home mortgages , thereby allowing them to be altered or remedied before they result in abandonment .
∗This work was done at the 2015 Eric & Wendy Schmidt
Data Science for Social Good Summer Fellowship at the University of Chicago . 1Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores ( National Institute of Housing Fund for Workers )
Figure 1 : ( Zumpango , Mexico )
Abandoned and vandalized house
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Home abandonment refers to a homeowner ’s decision to leave their property and forego the financial investment they have already made in the home . This decision imposes negative financial and economic consequences for both individuals and mortgage financing institutions in Mexico , as well as imposing significant negative externalities on the neighborhood . To date , home abandonment has affected more than 200,000 homes , representing approximately 5 % of the homes financed by Infonavit . As the largest provider of mortgages in Mexico , Infonavit serves approximately 70 % of the mortgage market in the country . It was created as a public institution for the purpose of assisting lower income families , who cannot obtain financing from private financing institutions , with home acquisition and other housing solutions .
In Mexico , every employer registered in the National Social Security Institute is required to contribute 5 % of each worker ’s salary to Infonavit , which administers the contributions as a savings account . When employees meet certain
13 The first objective is achieved by building a machine learning model that , given an individual applying for a loan and a home location , can predict the risk of abandonment . By evaluating the risk scores over the homes in the individual ’s choice set , Infonavit can provide advice by identifying which homes would have a lower risk of abandonment in the future . The second objective is to understand the impact of specific location features on home abandonment . Extensive research carried out by Infonavit indicated that distance to employment , and access to facilities such as schools , hospitals and grocery stores were instrumental in the home abandonment decision . What was less well understood was the relative impact of each of these factors , and the maximum distance thresholds that workers were willing to travel . Access to this information will enable Infovanit to improve the location of new housing developments , give data backed recommendations to the federal government to influence public policy , and provide guidance to improve the home location decisions of Mexican workers .
We believe that these two actions will help prevent the establishment of settlements with high abandonment rates as portrayed in figure 1 and 2 . Currently , revitalization eforts in areas with high abandonment rates only begin after the problem has become apparent for years .
2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION
Overall , we formulate the abandonment risk prediction problem as a binary classification problem where the outcome variable is whether a person abandons their house . We model this outcome for each year after the loan is granted , either until the end of the observation period or until the home is abandoned .
An alternative is to model the percentage of abandonment for a specific colonia2 . This would not serve our objectives since the analysis would no longer be focused on the individual decision of a person to abandon their house . Estimation at the colonia level would also require aggregating individual level data to a representative average person , and we would lose the information from individual level variation . Furthermore , as the specific addresses of houses are unknown for a large portion of the data , attempts to geocode these houses were unsuccessful due to the low quality of the address fields3 .
3 . DATA SOURCES
To investigate the factors that contribute to home abandonment , we combined data from multiple sources . The primary level of observation is at the individual home owner . This is supplemented with multiple data sources that capture the location characteristics of the house . 3.1 Loans data
The primary data provided by Infonavit includes personal , loan , and house characteristics for every loan granted in the last 20 years . The personal characteristics include demographics such as age and marital status , and financial infor
2Neighborhood 3It ’s important to note that while we are predicting at a home level ( to asess which homes are likely to be abandoned in the next year ) many of our features are at different levels of aggregation , from the home level up to the municipality level
Figure 2 : Neighborhoods with high abandonment rate have also high crime rates , which forces the local population to gate entire streets ( Zumpango , Mexico ) criteria , they are eligible to apply for a credit , typically to buy a new house.[4 ]
Most workers who acquire a house through an Infonavit loan come from low income families . Faced with economic constraints , they tend to buy cheaper houses which are located at a distance from city centers , often in new housing developments in remote suburbs with limited infrastructure and limited access to services and amenities . At the time of purchase , workers may be poorly informed about the day to day realities of their choice . For example , they may fail to properly account for the time and cost involved in commuting to their employment or schooling . It is often the case that families only realize the location does not satisfy their needs after they have moved into their new home , leading to a decision to abandon the house . Previous research indicates that workers abandon their home for several reasons , including long distances to their workplaces and schools , a lack of services , finances , and security concerns .
Infonavit wants to reduce home abandonment , but the current process is reactive and often too late . Loan holders who stop making payments enter a portfolio of low performing loans . Then , payment collectors visit each home and through a lengthy process of extensions and repeated home visits the home is marked as abandoned . This process takes approximately 12 18 months . At this stage the abandoned houses may have already motivated neighbors to leave their house behind as well and neighborhood regeneration programs may be too late to be effective . 1.1 Project objective
This project has the primary objective of reducing home abandonment in Mexico . We address this in two ways :
1 . Enable Infonavit to predict the risk of home abandonment for a given individual and home , and use that prediction to provide purchase advice to the individual .
2 . Provide policy recommendations to the government using the structure and features of the predictive model .
14 Figure 3 : Geographic distribution of home abandonment in Mexico mation such as wage and the value of accumulated savings . The data also includes a Risk Index computed by Infonavit which estimates the risk of employment loss for every creditholder . The information on the terms of the loan included the interest rate , the value of the loan , and the value of any subsidy received .
We transformed the data so that the unit of observation is at the house level rather than the individual loans , since it is possible for a family to have two loans for a house . We combined their savings and assets so that each observation is representative of one home with its associated characteristics . We excluded joint loans that had mismatched years or prices for the same house . Loans cofinanced with private banks , loans that were granted for the purpose of home improvement , and loans with entries that did not match up with other data sources provided by Infonavit ( such as guidelines corresponding to the age of the loan holder ) were also excluded . After this cleaning process , we have 4.1 million observations at the house level .
One field in the data that is often missing is the exact location of the house . Unfortunately , geo coordinates were only available for loans granted in the last 7 years ( since 2008 ) , and attempts to geocode the rest of the houses were unsuccessful due to the low quality of the address field . To deal with this practical constraint , we matched loans to colonias4 using different approaches . A detailed description of this process is described in section 4 , Location Matching .
3.2 Approximation of the labeled data
Home abandonment is recorded as a flag in our data but the exact date of abandonment is often unknown . Our loan data ( where the abandonment label is located ) presents a snapshot of the state of abandonment as of May 2015 and the abandonment flag tells us whether the home is abandoned as of that date .
4neighborhoods in Mexico
The abandonment flag can be triggered by different circumstances . The loan repayment occurs through the social security system directly from the employer . Payments cease when a person loses their job , and continue with the uptake of new employment . It is also possible that the person never regains any form of formal employment and joins the informal sector in Mexico . In the first case , a house will be marked as abandoned or vandalized when an inspector visits a colonia . In the second case of no payments , after a grace period an inspector visits the house and tries to locate the owners . Both circumstances are equally devastating for the livelihood of their former owners as well as the remaining occupants in the colonia .
Approximate dates of home abandonment were calculated based on supplemental payment data provided by Infonavit , which recorded payments made for every active loan during the 2010 2014 time period . We assumed that the first interruption in the payments represented the date of home abandonment . There were 4 types of events which were used to identify an interruption in payments :
1 . Date of the application for loan extension granted ( 59 % ) 2 . Date of the first interruption in the payment stream with continued payments after ( 11 % ) 3 . Date of last payment received ( 11 % ) 4 . Date the home is marked as abandoned but no single payment entry , date set to 2009 ( 5 % )
For 14 % of the data we could not find a pattern and excluded these observations from the study . 3.3 Housing survey data
Infonavit also shared the results of home surveys ( ECUVE5 ) conducted by licensed inspectors . This measured housing quality at the municipality6 level . ECUVE provides an in5Evaluaci´on cualitativa de la vivienda y su entorno ( Quantitative evaluation of housing and its environment ) 6Municipality is the administrative division of states in Mexico
15 dex of housing quality based on factors such as construction quality , reliable water and power supply , local access to schools and hospitals , and availability of parks and markets . 3.4 Business , school and hospital location data Previous research conducted by Infonavit indicated that distance to employment was among the top factors that drive home abandonment . To account for this , we incorporated data from DENUE7 in our analysis . Every five years , INEGI8 conducts a census of businesses in Mexico , covering businesses from small grocery stores to multinational corporations . For each business , information such as industry , number of employees , owner , address , and geolocation coordinates is recorded . The data also includes schools and hospitals . The study is updated annually.9 3.5 Municipality data
Finally , we included extensive data on the folliwing mu nicipality characteristics :
• Number of Homicides • Natality • Mortality • Natural disaster incidences • Years of schooling ( from the Population Census ) • Households statistics ( from the Population Census ) • Literacy rate ( from the Population Census ) • Healthcare coverage ( from the Population Census ) • Number of vehicles and passenger buses
All the municipality level data comes from INEGI ( except for the natural disasters incidence data , which comes from Desinventar [ 1] ) . INEGI ’s datasets are publicly available for download [ 2 ] . 3.6 Data limitations and project scope
Most of the data available to us is collected annually , except for the Population Census , which occurs every five years . This represented a challenge for feature creation , described in the next section . The loans dataset spans the last 20 years , but house coordinates were only available for loans granted after 2008 . Given that location features were critical to our objectives , the scope of the project was limited to loans granted from 2008 to 2015 . A timeline of the data is presented in Figure 4 .
4 . LOCATION MATCHING
One of the biggest challenges for our project was to geolocate granted loans . Since our model depends on spatialtemporal features ( eg number of schools within 5 Km ) , we need to obtain coordinates for each loan to be able to compute those features .
Our loans dataset contains more than 4.1 million rows , but location information ( coordinates and/or address ) is available for only 2 Million ( 49 % ) observations . To geolocate
7Directorio Estad´ıstico Nacional de Unidades Econ´omicas ( National Statistical Index of Economic Units ) 8Instituto Nacional de Estad´ıstica y Geograf´ıa ( National Institute of Statistics and Geography ) 9Every five years the study is carried out from scratch and every year only a subset of the data ( 80 % of the GDP ) is updated . For detailed methodology information refer to [ 3 ] address data , a common approach is to obtain geographical coordinates using a geocoding service . In the US , for example , the Census Bureau has a geocoding API[7 ] that given an address returns its coordinates .
Unfortunately , there is no official service for geocoding addresses in Mexico . One of the alternatives is to use Google Maps Geocoding API[6 ] . The first limitation with Google ’s service is the rate limit of 2,500 requests per day . Furthermore , the service is not as accurate as in the US , mostly because many Infonavit housing developments were built recently and are still not mapped by Google .
With that in mind , we decided to geolocate at the colonialevel only and group together all houses in the same colonia in a point located at the colonia ’s centroid . 4.1 Matching loans to colonias
The first step to match loans ( 4.1 million ) with their corresponding colonia , is to filter those that have at least address information ( some have coordinates ) .
The next step was to match loans that had geographical coordinates with their corresponding colonia , this was done using PostGIS spatial queries . We matched 740 000 loans using this method . After that we tried locating non matched loans by finding their closest matching loan and assigning the same colonia , this process was limited to a distance up to 1km .
The next step to attempt to locate more loans was to use the address field . For each non matched loan , we compared it to the matched ones and assign the same colonia if the address was the same . We made this comparison using a simple string comparison . Due to time constraints we didn’t implement a more robust approach such as entity resolution . In the end we were able to geolocate 2.4 million records ( 58.5 % of total loans ) .
5 . FEATURES
Once we received and cleaned the data ( preprocessing such as translation and deflation to account for time variation ) and finished the location matching process , we proceeded to build features . Each type of features required a different process , which is described in the following subsections . 5.1 Municipality features
Except for the Population Census , all municipality features are collected yearly . Since some years were missing , the missing values were imputed using linear extrapolation ( eg to impute a feature for 2010 , extrapolate using data from 2008 and 2009 ) . Another approach could be to use interpolation ( eg to impute a feature for 2010 , interpolate using data from 2009 and 2011 ) , this method was rejected since using data from the future ( in 2010 , we don’t know the value for 2011 features ) would violate our testing and training split paradigm .
Municipalities in Mexico do not have a uniform distribution in terms of area or population . For example , the most populated municipality ( Ecatepec ) has more than 1.5 million inhabitants , whereas the least populated one ( Santa Magdalena Jicotl´an ) has only 102 inhabitants , in term of land area , the biggest municipality ( Ensenada ) has an area of roughly 52,000 km2 and the smallest municipality ( San Lorenzo Axocomanitla ) has only 4.2 km2 . To account for this , features involving discrete counts were normalized over
16 Figure 4 : Data timeline summarizing the data sources used and project scoping ( 2008 2015 )
100,000 inhabitants ( eg number of homicides , births , deaths , households).10 5.2 Location features
Location features were critical to our project . They were of strategic value to provide actionable policy recommendations to our partner . Our personal impressions supported this during a site visit to a neighborhood with high abandonment ( Zumpango , Mexico ) . The requirement is to have features that capture the state of the local services and infrastructure in a comparable way across Mexico . We chose to aggregate several types of businesses separately for each colonia , and at various radii ( from 0 to 5 km , 5 to 10 km , up to 45 to 50 km ) . The number of employees for businesses within each concentric circle was also counted . It is an approximation of the actual infrastructure , nevertheless it should be representative across the state .
The accurate distance calculation between approximately 50,000 colonias , spanning some 4 million businesses across Mexico is an extensive endeavor . As we had no road network data to calculate the actual walking or driving time we relied on the air distance corrected by the spheroid distance . Without accounting for the curvature of the earth we might introduce noise in our geometrical aggregation bins , when a business might be counted differently depending on the distance . The challenge that arose was that a single feature calculation for a colonia took between 1 to 5 seconds , depending on the density of businesses . We developed a plsql extension parallelsql11 for PostgreSQL that allows these distance calculations to be executed in parallel , decreasing the required calculation time by the number of cores available to the database . The input data is partitioned by the primary key in split up in chunks of colonia groups . A load balance implementation submits the chunks to the cores of the database and waits until a sub part is finished and submits the next one until all features are calculated . 5.3 Personal and loan features
Personal and loan features were used for each observation with new aggregate features created to characterize each
10INEGI 2010 Population census 11https://github.com/k1aus/parallelsql colonia , taking the colonia average , minimum and maximum for both personal and loan features . 5.4 Merging features
Following the feature engineering step , a master feature table was built to contain all features , with each row having one single loan year and the following features :
• Credit holder characteristics • Loan characteristics • Average credit holder characteristics ( colonia level ) • Average personal characteristics ( colonia level ) • Municipality features • Location features
6 . MODELING 6.1 Model objectives
Our model was created to answer the following question : What is the risk of abandonment for an existing loan in the next year ?
We trained a variety of machine learning models on different years and then tested on active loans in the following year ( eg training from 2008 to 2014 and testing on loans active during 2015 ) . The algorithms tested were Support Vector Machines , Random Forests , AdaBoost , and Logistic Regression . 6.2 Accounting for loan duration
In order to accurately model the effect of loan duration on home abandonment and to be able to easily split our training and testing sets correctly , we duplicated records for each loan from the granting time until the abandonment year ( eg for a loan granted in 2008 but abandoned in 2010 , there will be 3 rows , one for each year ) , with the most recent row having the abandoned flag as true . 6.3 Generating our training and test sets
To evaluate our models , we had to ensure that we were not violating time dependent knowledge restrictions between our training and test set . This means using the known economic conditions at the time of evaluation rather than at testing
17 Figure 5 : Training ( 2008 2013)/Testing ( 2014 2015 ) splitting example
Figure 6 : ROC curve for our best model time . For example , if we wanted to predict home abandonment for 2015 , the only information available would be up until 2014 , since later information would be using data from the future .
Figure 5 shows a data split using data from 2008 to 2013 for training and 2014 to 2015 for testing . A continuous line means the observation is considered to be inhabited , while a dashed line means the observation is considered abandoned . To train our models we used scikit learn[5 ] , a Python library that contains many algorithms for binary classification .
7 . RESULTS
Because of the time restrictions on accurate home location data , and our approximation of dates of home abandonment ( explained in previous sections ) , our final models was trained using data from 2008 to 2014 and tested on 2015 . This resulted in a 95 to 5 negative to positive class ratio . To tackle this imbalance we oversampled the positive class in our training set to have 50 % positive observations , while leaving the test set untouched . Our main evaluation metric was chosen to be AUC given it ’s interpretation as the probability that a classifier will rank a randomly chosen positive instance higher than a randomly chosen negative one , which could be directly applied to the ranking of risk for multiple loans . 7.1 Model performance
Our best performing model was a Random Forest which achieved an AUC of 0.70 as shown in Figure 6 . With a 0.5 threshold , the model captured 55 % of abandoned houses . Given the inherent imbalanced nature of the data , this model produced 266,670 false positives in comparison to 4602 true abandoned houses .
While the predictive power of our model is limited , the top predictors ( see subsection 7.2 ) provide substantial deep insights into the data and provide guidance on where resources need to be allocated to address the problem of home abandonment ( see section 82 )
Several factors contribute to the model ’s limited performance ( see subsection 7.3 ) , and suspect that the vast majority of them relate to the fidelity and quality of the data . To address this , we provided Infonavit with a series of data
Risk Index Years since loan granted Loan sales price Daily wage Loan account value Colonia minimum sales price Loan interest rate Loan holder age
Table 1 : Top personal/loan predictors collection recommendations ( see section 8.1 ) to aid in the improvement of the performance of the current model . 7.2 Top predictors
Trained models consistently show the same sets of features as important to predict home abandonment . Table 1 shows the top features regarding inherent personal and loan characteristics and Table 2 shows the top features that can potentially be impacted through policy . 7.3 Model limitations due to data quality
Determining accurate coordinates of homes was a major limitation we encountered while attempting to precisely compute location features ( such as distance to nearest employment areas ) . Since we only had exact coordinates for about 740,000 of 4.1 million loans , the most accurate location we could calculate for homes with missing location data was the center of the colonia in which they were located . Using various fuzzy matching methods we retrieved colonia locations for 2.4 million loans , still missing around 1.7
ECUVE index Number of restaurant employees within 5 km Number of employees within 5 km Number of businesses within 5 km Number of hospitals within 5 km Loan holder age * Number of schools within 5 km Number of churches within 5 km Municipality Passenger buses over 1000 inhabitants
Table 2 : Top predictors that can be improved through policy changes
18 million . This location approximation introduced a substantial amount of noise into our location features since colonias can stretch multiple kilometers and we had no indication of where a given home was located inside each colonia .
The poor location information created two problems for our analysis . First , we were unable to compute actual distances to nearby businesses in meters , and instead opted to count the number of businesses within distance rings . Second , since we were unable to locate an individual loan within a colonia , we could not compute intra colonia features which could have helped our model distinguish between homes ( especially those with similar loan information ) in a given colonia .
Related to the distance features , our model strongly depends on DENUE . This process to update this dataset is carried out every 5 years , so it is possible that the current model does not capture all the economic changes that occur year to year .
Limitations related to data acquisition include our inability to obtain public transportation information ( eg location of bus stops ) and an inability to obtain accurate employment information and location for each loan holder .
Another limitation is the uncertainty of abandonment date within official Infonavit records . Home abandonment is a complex process , so establishing the exact timestamp of when a home was abandoned would is difficult if not impossible without all houses being checked consistently . The only timestamp we had originally from the raw data was the year in which the loan was granted . For our models , the abandonment year needed to be estimated from the loan payment history data . 7.4 Prototype
The predictive model ( Figure 7 ) was deployed as a web application which estimates the risk of abandonment for the next year based only on personal characteristics and a selected colonia for the home . The process to make a prediction is as follows :
1 . User selects a colonia 2 . User inputs personal characteristics ( age , Risk Index and daily wage )
3 . The web application retrieves the loan characteristics as the average for that colonia
4 . Municipality and location features are retrieved from the database
5 . The aggregated features are run through the trained model , and the application displays the prediction to the user , along with a map and a summary of the factors driving home abandonment
8 . CONCLUSIONS
Our model made a modest but substantive improvement in home abandonment prediction compared to a baseline model of Infonavit ’s internal Risk Index alone . Before our project , the institute had no way to estimate the risk of home abandonment at the loan level . Taking advantage of the insights found , Infonavit will be able to take the following actions :
1 . Advise Mexican workers when they are applying for a loan , so that home abandonment can be prevented at the loan origination time . Using our model , Infonavit can estimate the risk of home abandonment given personal characteristics and location . With this information , they will be able to suggest alternative locations better suited to the loan applicant and decrease the risk of abandonment . It is important to mention that Infonavit cannot deny loans to formally employed workers by law , so our model results will only be used to provide guidance to potential loan holders and to help them make a better location decision .
2 . Prevent the spread of home abandonment in certain neighborhoods . By identifying locations which are at risk of abandonment , pre emptive action can be taken to reduce such risk ( eg intervention programs ) .
3 . Improve planning for new developments .
Infonavit does not build houses , but purchases them from development companies . Taking advantage of our work , Infonavit will have enough information to asses the risk associated with a new development in a certain location .
4 . Influence public policy at the federal level . Solving the problem of home abandonment in Mexico involves many stakeholders such as Infonavit and the federal government . Based on the results of our work , Infonavit will be in a better position to influence public policy and to prioritize changes based on our findings .
8.1 Data collection recommendations
To improve the model ’s ability to accurately predict abandonment , we recommend Infonavit make certain improvements in the data collection process . Most important is to collect precise geographic coordinates for all houses . Since location related features are important predictors of home abandonment , it is critical to improve the quality of this data .
The second recommendation is to start collecting the loan holder ’s employment location and school location data . According to previous Infonavit research , commuting time is a top reason for home abandonment , so incorporating this information in the model will provide new insight and may have a significant effect in the model performance .
The interval ECUVE score created at Infonavit is a top predictor of home abandonment but there were many missing values in some component variables ( ECUVE measures different variables such as transportation , access to water , parks , markets and aggregates them to provide an overall score ) . Some were unsuitable for use in our models . Given the promise of the overall ECUVE score as a predictor , it is important to improve the quality of the ECUVE data . One priority could be to increase the sample size to include more municipalities in the country .
Our last recommendation is in regards to the time records . Since the desired output of a model is the risk of abandonment with respect to a change in time ( in the current model we predicted abandonment in the next year ) , it is important to improve the temporal data quality , meaning that Infonavit needs to record important events with more precision such as month of loan granting and if possible , the month of abandonment . At the start of the project the only raw timestamp recorded at Infonavit was the loan granting year . We thus needed to approximate the date of abandonment in order to accurately consider the change in our features over time ( eg number of jobs within 10 km in 2012 versus 2013 ) .
19 Figure 7 : Prototype screenshot
This introduced noise in our model , thus severely affecting the performance . its social mission and improve the quality of life for many families in Mexico .
8.2 Public policy recommendations
10 . ADDITIONAL AUTHORS
Infonavit cannot change public policy as an individual actor , but has a close relationship with the federal government and can advise the them and influence other players to do so . With a considerable spectrum of possible policy changes yet limited resources to deploy them , having a data backed starting point is crucial to tackling home abandonment .
Our recommendation pinpoints the need for a focus on local rather than regional growth . Our model found that the critical distance for services is within 5 km , so creating large centralized employment and educational centers at distances further than 5km from colonias would not have a significant impact on reducing home abandonment .
Home abandonment is not an intermittent phenomenon across time , instead it spreads inside neighborhoods , so we encourage Infonavit to allocate resources for urban regeneration and intervention programs in neighborhoods that already have higher percentages of abandonment .
9 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This project would not have been possible without the financial support provided by the Schmidt Family Foundation , making not only this project possible , but also another eleven in the Data Science For Social Good ( DSSG ) program .
We would also like to thank DSSG staff for making the program possible and for all the support provided throughout the summer . Their hard work inspired us every day to do our best and to make an impact .
Finally , we are grateful to Infonavit for trusting and actively working with the team to provide valuable insights . We hope our results help the institution better accomplish
Rayid Ghani ( University of Chicago , email : rayid@uchicago.edu ) and Jos´e Carlos Gonz´alez ( Infonavit , email : josecarlosgonz@gmailcom )
11 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Desinventar . Inventory system of the effects of disasters . http://wwwdesinventarorg/en , 2013 . [ Online ; accessed 09 September 2015 ] .
[ 2 ] INEGI . Descarga masiva . http://www3inegiorgmx/sistemas/descarga/ , 2013 . [ Online ; accessed 09 September 2015 ] .
[ 3 ] INEGI . Directorio estad´ıstico nactional de unidades econ´omicas . http://wwwinegiorgmx/est/contenidos/ proyectos/denue/presentacion.aspx , 2015 . [ Online ; accessed 09 September 2015 ] .
[ 4 ] Infonavit . Qu´e hago para cumplir . http :
//portalinfonavitorgmx/wps/wcm/connect/infonavit/ patrones/mis compromisos/que+hago+para+cumplir . [ Online ; accessed 09 September 2015 ] .
[ 5 ] F . Pedregosa , G . Varoquaux , A . Gramfort , V . Michel ,
B . Thirion , O . Grisel , M . Blondel , P . Prettenhofer , R . Weiss , V . Dubourg , J . Vanderplas , A . Passos , D . Cournapeau , M . Brucher , M . Perrot , and E . Duchesnay . Scikit learn : Machine learning in Python . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 12:2825–2830 , 2011 .
[ 6 ] Google . The Google Maps Geocoding API . https://developersgooglecom/maps/documentation/ geocoding/intro , 2016 . [ Online ; accessed 15 January 2016 ] .
[ 7 ] United States Census Bureau . Geocoder . http://geocodinggeocensusgov , 2010 . [ Online ; accessed 15 January 2016 ] .
20
