Mining Online Users’ Access Records for Web Business Intelligence
Serena Chan
Omron Asia Pacific e Business Development Team
Singapore serenachan@omroncomsg website needed also to be known . In our case , ePersonalization that means personalizing web content according to the customer ’s interest/needs will be guided by the knowledge that we have on him .
To realize the objectives of Web Business Intelligence , we propose an Access control ( AC ) architecture that can progressively built upon a basic website . The objective is to distribute the functions of e CRM and business intelligence using an agent architecture and to monitor users’ accesses on the website .
2 . Hybrid AC Architecture
The distinguishing features of
We present in this section our hybrid model for e CRM and data mining for business intelligence , that is tailored to meet the requirements for easy integration and upgrade for some primitive web server to operate in e business environments . this architecture are the integration of the distributed software agents each takes a specific role for producing a particular result , and the users’ access monitoring system on the website . It supports the ability for mining to be performed at remote sites using mobile agents provides insightful business intelligence reports , and it also feeds back the results to some rule based systems residing at the server for doing e Personalization . This helps it to be easily adopted by most existing web sites who want to have complete functions of e CRM and BI , but yet reluctant to replace the whole e business platform .
The hybrid model operates on the principle of letting the website with only some slight modification to act as the portal for capturing the user ’s particular , their trails , and also for providing them a better online service via ePersonalization . Thus , it has the option of using the client server model or the mobile agent model or an integrated approach involving both . We suggest that a web business should evolve progressively by taking a phrasal approach . The difference in performance between the three models are how fast the BI can be obtained and how much real time the e CRM can take place . The components of the hybrid AC architecture illustrated in Figure 1 are as follows :
Simon Fong
Faculty of Science and Technology
Universidade de Macau
Macao simon@enetiquecomsg
Abstract
This paper discusses about how business intelligence on a website could be obtained from users’ access records instead of web logs of “ hits ” . Users’ access records are captured by implementing an Access Control ( AC ) architectural model on the website . This model requires users to register their profiles in an exchange of a password ; and thereafter they have to login before gaining access to certain resources on the website . The links to the resources on the website have been modified such that a record of information about the access would be recorded in the database when clicked . This way , datamining can be performed on a relatively clean set of access records about the users . Hence , a good deal of business the users’ behaviors , preferences and about the popularities of the resources ( products ) on the website can be gained . In this paper , we also discussed how the business intelligence acquired , in turn , can be used to provide e CRM for the users .
1 . Introduction intelligence about
Nowadays most companies have moved into ebusiness where they use Internet as a platform to interact with their customers . This has created more touch points than the traditional face to face visits , and therefore we have a new realm called Web Business Intelligence to deal with . targeting
In Web Business Intelligence , for the business areas of decision support and personalized service , we have identified three main technologies namely Data warehousing ( that includes data mining modules and decision support modules ) , Web log analyzer [ 1 ] and Web spy [ 2 ] . Each one of them provides certain insight or understanding of one of the many aspects of a business respectively . In particular , we state that having a web log analyzer alone is not sufficient to provide a complete picture of business intelligence . Nevertheless , web log analysis gives very good detailed reports on web site traffic statistics . Other information such as competitors , market positions , and most importantly the customers and their behaviors on the
Figure 1 . Agent based Framework for BI and e CRM
It can be seen that with all the components working together , the three business areas are covered , as shown in the figure . The highlight of this paper is on about how a login and access control mechanism is implemented on the web site ; thereafter Web business intelligence can be discovered .
3 . Access Control Mechanism
AC mechanism is a prerequisite for implementing an e CRM enabled website with customer centric business intelligence . It works , basically by requiring a user to login , in order to identify himself before he is granted access to certain protected resources . It is assumed that a user would think it is fair that they would have to be bothered about logging in for getting some invaluable resources in return . At the first time , he would have to sign up a registration form with a user name and a password of his choice .
On the website , the hypertext links to the protected resources such as a free trail of software , a product ’s manual , etc . , would have to be modified . Upon clicking on any one of these protected hypertext links , not only a user would be challenged with a password for checking access rights , the event of that “ click ” will be recorded in a database . Specifically , we record down who , at what time , on which website ( in the case of a multi regional website ) , have accessed to what resources from which web page . This recording event happens from when the user has logon ( both success failure cases ) to every time he clicks on a protected link . The idea of doing so is that we want to be able to keep track of which resources have been accessed by whom , when , and how often , on our website . Hence we can derive insights on what is happening on the website rather in terms of accesses than merely traffic hits per visit . The information obtained are more insightful than those from web logs , since we beforehand have kept a full demographic details about the users when they registered , compare to the information obtained from web logs which are only IP addresses . We will later discuss about how the records of user access will be analyzed for web business intelligence . The technical implementation flows for login procedure and thereafter access procedure are shown in Figures 2 and 3 respectively . For both cases , a record is generated in two different database tables namely login and access . The AC architecture has three distinguishing features :
1 . Instead of using web log data “ GET ” that is relative only to the name of a web page , we can more accurately pinpoint which “ resources ” on the page that we want to monitor . It can be a link , a JPG file , a PDF file , or a movie clip . Access to them requires the user to login . We have the flexibility to design which links require the users to login and therefore we can monitor the access patterns on them .
2 . Users can be uniquely identified by their login ID 3 . Before the analysis , we can have relatively clean user profiles because the data fields of an access record are carefully chosen .
( demographics ) .
( 1 ) Customer profiling When integrated with web traffic , one can tell the online customers behaviors . However , this requires some advanced techniques like web log mining . At the first level , for example , we can tell about the top 10 ( or top 5 , 100 , etc ) of the countries , the industries where the users come from , or their designations ;
( 2 ) Customers’ interests . The top customers’ interests on the products can be listed out . In a simple way , this information is obtained from the registration form when the users signed up . There is other more sophisticated technique to estimate the user ’s interest of a web page without directly asking the user . This method [ 3 ] is proposed for locating multi word phrases in order to estimate interests on certain pages .
( 3 ) Product popularity . The web pages of products that have been accessed most could be ranked and displayed as vital business information . This is a relatively fair approach when compare to measuring web page hits as each page may have different hit count per access
( 4 ) Technical knowledge base . Over a certain period of time , the online inquiry forms posted by the customers have been collected , organized that form a searchable technical knowledge base . The base can made to be searchable that stores the past problem cases and the appropriate solutions . In a simpler form , it could be provided to the users as a set of frequently asked questions . the data
So far the task of obtaining the BI at the first level is limited to a single or only a few sources of data . Datamining plays an important role in analyzing complex sometimes unorganized data from multiple sources . For instance , we can merge from different dimensions such as the attributes about the customers , the aspects about the products , different places or the schemes of the website , traffic patterns and time . From this huge pool of complex merged data with a diversity of dimensions , data mining could help discovering some hidden patterns that may be of business values . Finding correlation among data and doing prediction are beyond the capability of simple statistical calculation .
5 . Pattern Discovery under AC Architecture
Web usage mining , which is also known as pattern discovery is a process of mining for user browsing and access patterns . With our AC architecture , mining is an important backend process for deriving business intelligence at the second level . In AC environment , we record only those user accesses taken from the links that we chose . It is assured that the user must have logged in , given us his unique user id and then granted the access .
Figure 2 . Logical flow for login procedure
Figure 3 . Logical flow for access procedure
4 . Web Business Intelligence
With
Web business intelligence refers to the ability to make better business decisions in running a website through intelligent use of collected data , mostly from the same website . It is about gathering , managing , and analyzing data . Then the data are transformed into useful , actionable information to run an information driven eBusiness . implemented , at the AC mechanisms the appropriate links at which the company wants to monitor about their popularity , a wealth of good business intelligence ( BI ) can be obtained . In essence , we would be able to obtain a new realm of BI with the information about when and what the users have access and login to the website . the web business intelligence can be obtained at two levels ; one with and the other one without the aid of data mining . At the first level , where simple statistics are used , we can show the following information as business intelligence about the products and the website :
We suppose that identified as he has passed
So each access record stored in the database contains vital information of the user ’s identification , time of access , the website ’s identity , from which page he is making the access , and which “ item ” he is accessing . The item or the place of tracking can be a graphics , a movie clip , a PDF file or a hypertext link . Each user id can be easily linked to the user registration table in the database ; that implies a full set of information about that user is available . The problems of user identification as with web log processing no longer exist . We can take for granted that the user is readily the password challenged . The recording of his trail is made almost instantly by our program code embedded at the link as soon as he mouse clicked on it . Besides the flexibility of choosing whichever resources we want to monitor , the biggest advantage is that the effort for data preprocessing is minimal . This AC method is believed to be more reliable because there is no missing or ambiguous value , and no need to remove any reluctant information . However , this requires a good design in setting up the links that we want to trace in advance . A non technical drawback however , would be the difficulty in luring the users to sign up , and then get them perform the login action at every first time he wants to access a resource during a session . The value of the resources that the user seeks must be able to justify the trouble of login .
6 . A Generalized Data mining Model for AC
With our AC model , we attempt to generalize the discovery attributed to the following format : who > when/how visited which parts of the website > for what > why . Obviously , the format contains pivots of natural clauses such as who , when , what , etc . These pivots would be easily derived from the attributes or fields of the AC records , except the last two : for what and why .
Who : attribute of the user id in AC record . Knowing the user id , the rest of the demographic information about that user can be obtained from the user registration records .
When : time stamp information in AC record . A hierarchical time dimension model will need to be created later on , eg year , quarter , month , week , etc . prior to mining .
How : this information can either be a case in the form of patterns obtained through the analysis discussed in the previous section , or a simple path formed by the “ From ” and “ To ” fields in the AC records . Other abstract forms of taxonomical representation could be “ through a promotion ” , “ from a link in a newsletter ” or “ from a search engine ” .
Which parts : the destination information in the AC records plus the preceding trails if any . The destination information could be a single resource file or a page that is obtained from the “ To ” field is usually this of the access table . The preceding trails would have to be obtained from Path Analysis . Each one of the preceding trails is a paths a user during one visit has traversed within the physical web site layout . and Clustering
For what : this is tacit information inferred from the results of Association analysis . Alternatively , an analyst may have a conjecture for the groups and explicitly set a value for this variable with his subjective judgment . In an information only website , the ultimate purposes for the users may be to obtain certain information in the form of a report , a product brochure , some free software download or to post a technical question . Furthermore , the users may want to purchase something in the case of an online shopping website .
Why : this is the concluding remark that an analyst draws for the patterns . This is a continuous review process with largely human intervention since the datamining system would not be able to explain why such has happened . It would only reveal the hidden patterns from a large pool of data . The explanation of the outcomes would have to be first answered by a human expert . Subsequently , prediction using a decision tree will be possible as an extension to this model .
7 . Conclusion
Access Control ( AC ) technique is based on this key innovation : obtaining data from the resource links at the web server instead of web server log files . It is a password based forcibly method for capturing customers’ trails . It is based on the assumption that the users are willing to login in exchange of some valuable resource from the website . By virtue of this innovation , AC architecture provides better information than log file analysis , gives site owner more reliable business intelligence . Web log tells mostly about traffic statistics and treating each user anonymous ( because it is difficult to identify a user by its IP address ) . Access records with unique user identification and exact navigated locations , would be more suitable for data mining for customercentric Web Business intelligence .
8 . Reference
[ 1 ] WebTrend Weblog Analyser , wwwwebtrendcom
[ 2 ] S . Fong , A . Sun , K . Wong , “ Price Watcher Agent for E Commerce ” , Int . Conference on Intelligent Agent Technology , World Scientific , pp.294 300 , 2001 .
[ 3 ] P . Chan , “ A Non invasive Learning Approach to Building Web User Profiles ” , KDD 99 Workshop on Web Usage Analysis and User Profiling , pp.7 12 , 1999 .
