Experimentation and Self Learning in Continuous Database Marketing
Robin N Shaw
Deakin Universiv rshaw@deakineduau
Brian Garner
Deakin Universiv brianadeakin edu.au
We give a brief review of the issues surrounding continuous database marketing , and outline the usual methcds employed to address them . We then examine some of the issues in more detail and propose methods of addressing them within an overall framework of a continuous database marketing campaign .
2 . Background
Database marketing plays a strategic role in many organisations , particularly for business to consumer organisations that interact directly with their customers .
Database marketing practice is becoming increasingly complex . Companies are introducing additional channels beyond direct mail , such as outbound telemarketing , outbound email , SMS and web . Marketing campaigns are shifting from being one off efforts to being continuous programs where customers are targeted opportunistically , based on changes in behaviour . This means that the processes such as data mining need to adapt to the continuous paradigm .
The complexity of the decision process has also increased . Rather than omitting customers unlikely to respond from a mailing list , companies now need to decide whether to make an offer , when to make an offer , which channel to use , and which offer out of many potential offers to make .
21 Data mining in database marketing
Data mining for database marketing bas been dominated by supervised learning techniques , including logistic regression , artificial neural networks and decision tree models [ 4 61 . A typical use of a model built by one of these techniques is to reduce the size of a list of customers who are to be contacted by omitting those customers unlikely to respond . This issue has been examined many times in the literature [ 4 , 7 15 ] .
James E Pearce'
MarketEaze Solutions jpearce@ozemail . corn au
Geoffrey I Webb Monash Universiq
Webb@ csse . monash . edu . au
Abstract
We present a method for continuous database markering that identifies target customers for a number of marketing offers using predictive models . The algorithm then selects the appropriate offer f o r the cnstomer . Experimentol design principles are encapsulated to capture more information that will be used to monitor and refine the predictive models . The updated predictive models are then used for the next round of marketing offers .
1 . Introduction
Continuous database marketing is an extension of database marketing where customers are either targeted periodically based on changes in behaviour , or made marketing offers at a touch point 11 31 , The key difference between a continuous campaign and a one off campaign is that a continuous campaign will continue to be active for a period of time , which allows for the collection of data and ongoing modification of the campaign structure based on analysis of the results collected to date .
Our work in data mining for continuous database marketing has led to the realisation that new marketing processes are required . This paper encapsulates our thinking on the various issues that arise . The processes currently used in industry often fail to integrate data mining with other aspects of marketing campaign management . By addressing this problem and providing an experimental framework over the lifetime of the marketing campaign , our methodology allows optimised offers to be made and improves the quality of predictive models . Our particular innovations are to maintain multiple marketing models in parallel , and to institute systematic , statistically well founded processes to evaluate and refine those models .
' The principal author is enrolled in B research doctorate at Deakin Uaversily and acknowledges financial support from the School of Computing & Mathematics to enable him to participate in ICDM 2002 .
0 7695 1754402 $17.00 Q 2002 IEEE
775
22 Experimental framework
In order to test the effects on offer uptake of different factors that can be influenced by marketers , and to quantify the effects of these offers , database marketing employs an experimental framework . This framework also serves as a data collection mechanism for building new predictive models and refining existing predictive models . Experimentation used in database marketing can vary from a very simple design to complex fractional factorial experimental designs , where thousands of offers can be tested by varying the levels of a few factors [ 16 , 171 .
When predictive models are being used , a control cell can be formed by the inclusion of a ‘random’ cell . A random selection of customers are included in this cell regardless of the outcome of the predictive model usually used to determine whether an offer should be made to a customer [ IS ] . This allows the effectiveness of predictive models to be measured .
3 . Current issues in database marketing
Database marketing is shifting from a static model , where marketing campaigns were one off exercises , to continuous marketing , where successful initiatives continue to be made over time and ongoing assessment can be used for progressive campaign refinement [ Z ] .
31 Continuous marketing
Continuous campaigns aim to make an appropriate offer to customers at a particular time when customers are seen to be receptive . Thcy can take one of two forms . The first , known as ‘event triggered’ marketing , is a batch process . Periodic checks of significant events in customers’ attributes and behaviour are made , resulting in a relevant offer being made to all customers who match the specified criteria at regular intervals .
The second form , known as ‘opportunistic marketing’ , occurs when an offer is made to a customer at an interactive touch point [ 19 ] . With this type of campaign the customer ’s visit to the touch point itself triggers the campaign ; the company does not know that the customer will visit during a particular period . The decision and selection process must be performed quickly so that a dialogue can be maintained .
32 Decisions in continuous campaigns
To perform a continuous campaign effectively there are a number of issues that need to be addressed . They include the selection of an appropriate and significant ‘event’ , definition of eligibility criteria that decide whether a customer is eligible to receive a particular offer , a decision on whether a particular offer should be
776 made to a customer , incorporation of an experimental framework , a decision on which offer should be preferred for each customer , and refinement of predictive models based on the uptake of the offer .
The criteria that govern whether a customer is eligible to receive an offer are determined by business policy ; for example , a credit card customer may not be eligible for an offer of an increased credit limit if a recent statement is overdue . Such policies need to be taken into account within our framework . Different offers can be expected to have different eligibility criteria , and not all customers may be eligible for any offer . The decision of whether a specific offer should be made to a specific customer can be aided by the use of a predictive model to select customers if the probability of In this uptake is greater than a threshold value [ S , 91 . paper we assume that a model has been built for each specific offer .
4 . A continuous marketing framework
Our framework covers the use of predictions and prediction intervals to determine whether a customer should receive an offer ; offer selection . based on comparison of the estimated probability of response for a number of offers ; the inclusion of an experimental design framework within the decision process ; and a requirement to update predictive models and estimates of model accuracy with current response information .
Our innovations are to consider the outcomes of multiple predictive models when selecting an offer , to use statistical experimental design principles to augment existing models with causal data , and to evaluate and refine these models continually .
The basic procedure followed in applying the framework is outlined below . The first step is to identify those customers who are to be made an offer . The next step is to determine which offers a customer is eligible for in terms of business policy . Next we determine the customer ’s probability of take up for each of those offers by using predictions from a model . These probabilities are compared with a threshold probability for each offer to determine whether a customer is to be made an offer . The next stage is to decide which offer to make to the customer . Experimental design principles are utilised to capture more information that will be used to monitor and refine the predictive models . Once the offer is made to the customer , the take up is recorded , and the relevant predictive model updated . The updated predictive models are then used for the next round of marketing offers .
41 Customer eligibility
Typically decisions concerning whether a customer is eligible to receive an offer compare the estimated prob ability of a response zG with a threshold c , and make the offer if ng > c [ l I ] . The procedure used to define c may include economic considerations surrounding making the offer and subsequent returns [ 15,201 .
Our modification to the standard procedure chooses the threshold c , to select customer j as being eligible to receive offer i if R(n , > c , ) 2 a for some value of a . Refinements to models will change our choice of c , as model accuracy improves . Random cell methodology is added to ensure that a randomly selected percentage of customers 5 , is selected as being eligible regardless of the value of no . This ensures that we continue to obtain realistic evaluations of the accuracy of our models and explore alternatives . 42 Offer decisions and experimentation
A naive decision process to find the best offer oi out of m alternatives is , for customer j , select oj . such that ni . , = max , irv , that is , select the offer with the highest predicted probability . However , an offer of higher estimated n , may not have a greater actual probability than others . The decision criteria need to incorporate the accuracy of the models so that a poor model will not gain preference over a good model .
Our framework includes an experimental protocol in the selection of which offer to make . The algorithm provides the offer . to be made to the customer : a control offer , the best offer ; or a testing offer . A customer is allocated to a control cell by ensuring that a random percentage of customers 5 , is made no offer .
Two possible algorithms are outlined below .
Algorithm 1 Foreachcustomer j {
For each eligible offer a$ {
Estimate Pr(o , =ol, , ) = p t , the probability that offer a : is the first ranked offer a, , )
} Sample a random value X E [ o,~ ]
777
Select offer 0 ) . from the set of all eligible offers 0=(p , , om)suchthat n=max,z~ , Add offer 0 ; to the set of ;est offers 0 = ( 0 , . 1 Foreachoffer k t i ’ {
Addoffer o,to U = { o i,]if Pro ; , 5 CI ) < a
1 Sample a random value X E 10 , I ] If x > 5 , then allocate an offer sampled at random from 0‘
1 Algorithm 2 : Foreachcustomer j {
If x > 5 , then allocateoffer a , with probability p ,
1 43 Model updating
In many deployments of predictive models , the model ’s estimation algorithm is deployed as is , to be fitted against customers as required , or alternatively as fixed estimates of take up probability determined by fitting the models across the population . Periodical checks of modcl performance are undertaken , and if the model ’s performance has deteriorated , the model will be re calibrated .
For an automated self leaming system , updating and monitoring of predictive models needs to be done continuously or in piecewise batch mode . I h e mechanics of updating models are not considered in this paper .
Once an offer has been made to a customer , that customer will either accept the offer or decline . The customer ’s response yj is then captured , along with data on o , the offer made , and the estimated probability of uptake nG,togiveatuple ( yB,nrj ) .
Information on the current accuracy of the model can be adjusted with the new observation , allowing consistent monitoring of the model ’s performance . If the accuracy of the model deteriorates , model updating is required . 45 The overall algorithm For each model i I
Calculate 0 . = f(y,,no ) , the measure of error , based on the test set
I For each customer j who meets the trigger criteria {
Sample a random value X E [ O,I ] If x s g ,
Else {
Then select offer a at random from the set of all offers
For each offer a , (
Calculate ir , and ( n;,n ; ) If Pr(iro 2 c ) 2 a , add at to the set of eligible offers 0
1 Make offer a using Algorithm 1 or 2
Foreachcustomer j {
Observe the response y , to offer o , and covariates x j Update model y , = g(x , ) and prediction error 4 Compare 0 : with Dj If D : < D ,
Then keeo new model
Else
Generate alert for model rebuilding and P . Stolorz , Eds . New York American Association for Artificial Intelligence , 1998 , pp . 144148 .
) 5 . Conclusion and future work
The framework outlined encapsulates the insights we have derived from our experience in continuous database marketing . It allows continuous campaigns to be implemented before models have been fully fitted . The combination of model updating and experimental design ensures that when model accuracy is poor , more information is collected to improve accuracy , and when accuracy is high , optimised offers are made to customers .
Our specific innovations are to include both data mining and experimentation simultaneously within the continuous database marketing process , extending the singleoffer paradigm to managing multiple marketing offers and models in parallel , and instituting statistically well founded processes to monitor and enhance models during a continuous marketing campaign . Our random cell methodology guards against models using biased samples . There are several areas of work to be done . Extensions of the decision criteria can include economics factors . There are many alternative algorithms that could be used for experimentation . Response surface methodology may be incorporated to search for an optimum .
However , the basic framework allows changes and enhancements while providing a platform from which marketing offers can be made in a continuous manner .
6 . References
[ I ] R . Hedgcock , “ Transforming Data Into Marketing Insight , ” inAutomutic1D News . vol . 14 , 1998p~ 50 .
I21 S . Grimes , “ CRM Evolution . ” Intelligent Enterprise , vol . 2 , pp . 14 17 . 1999 .
[ 31 P . Demery , “ The Decade of Marketing , ” Credir Cnrd Managemenr , vol . 1 I , pp . 74 84 , 1999 .
I41 D . Haughton and S . Oulabi , “ Direct Marketing Modeling with CART and CHAD . ” Journal of Direcr Marketing , vol . 11 . pp . 42 52 , 1997 . I51 I . Magidson . ” hproved Statistical Techniques for Response Modeling : Progression Beyond Regression , ” Journal of Direcr Murkering . vol . 2 , pp . 6 18 , 1988 .
I81 J . R . Bull and T . Wansbeek , “ Optimal Selection for Direct Mail , ” Marketing Science , vol . 14 . pp . 378 394 , 1995 .
[ 91 A . E . Eiben , T . Euverman , W . Kowal~zyk , E . Peelen . F . Slisser , and I . Wesseling . ‘Comparing Adaptive and Traditional Techniques for Direct Marketing , ” presented at Proceedings of the 4th European Congress on Intelligent Techniques and Soft Computing , 19 % .
[ IO ] F . Gonul and Z . S . Meng , “ Optimal Mailing of Catalogs : A New Methodology Using Estimable Stluctural Dynamic Pro mamminp Models , ” MananemPnt Science , vol . 44 . DD . 1249
[ ll ] N . Levin and J . Zahavi , “ Continuous Predictive Modeling : A Comparative Analysis,’’ Journal of Inreracrive Marketing , vol . 12 . pp . 5 22 , 1998 . I121 C . X . Ling and C . Li , “ Data Mining for Direct Marketing ; Problems and Solutions , ” in The Fourrh Internotional Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Dam Mining . R . Agrawal and P . Stolorz , Eds New York American Association for Artificial Intelligence . 1998 , pp . 73 79 .
[ 13 ] N . Piersma and I 1 Jonker , “ Determining the Direct Mailing Frequency with Dynamic Stochastic Programming , ” Econometric Institute . Rotterdam E12000 34/A , 2000 .
I141 B . Ratner . “ A Technical Illustration of Alternative Direct Marketing Response Models , ” Journal of Targeting , Measuremen1 and Analysisfor Markering , vol . 8 , pp . 379 387.2000 ,
( 151 B . Masand and G . Piatelsky Shapiro , “ A Comparison of Approaches For Maximizing Business Payoff of Prediction Models , ” in Proceedings of the Second Internotional Conference on Knowledge Discovery andDara Mining . E . Simoudis , I . Han , and U . Fayyad , Eds . Menlo Park California : AAA1 Press , 1996 .
I161 P . D . Berger and T . L . Magliozzi , ” Experimental Design in Direct Mail and the Application of Taguchi Methods , ” Journal of Direcr Marketing , vol . 7 , pp . 4454 , 1993 . I171 R . C . Blattberg . “ Research Opportunities in Direct Mar . keting , ” Journnl of DirectMarketing . vol . I , pp . 7 14 , 1987 .
[ I81 A . Hirschowitz . “ Closing the CRM Loop , ” Journal ofTargering , Measurement and Analysis for Marketing , vol . 10 , pp . 168 178 . 2001 .
[ 6 ] A . Berson , S . Smith , and K . Thearling . Building Dura Mining Applicarions for CRM . New York McGraw Hill . 2030 .
1191 G . Herschel , “ Optimizing Customer Relationship Management Through Every Interaction , ” Gartner , Stamford 2001 .
I71 S . Bhattacharyya , “ Direct Marketing Response Models Using Genetic Algorithms . ” in The Fourth International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , R . Agrawal
1201 S . Bhattacharyya . “ Direct Marketing Performance Mcdeling Using Genetic Algorithms , ” INFORMSJournal on Computing , vol . I I , pp . 248 257 . 1999 .
778
