Mining Surveillance Video for Independent Motion Detection
Zhongfei ( Mark ) Zhang
Computer Science Department
Watson School of Engineering and Applied Science State University of New York ( SUNY ) at Binghamton
Binghamton , NY 13902 , USA zhongfei@csbinghamtonedu
Abstract
This paper addresses the special applications of data The probmining techniques in homeland defense . lem targeted , which is frequently encountered in military/intelligence surveillance , is to mine a massive surveillance video database automatically collected to retrieve the shots containing independently moving targets . A novel solution to this problem is presented in this paper , which offers a completely qualitative approach to solving for the automatic independent motion detection problem directly from the compressed surveillance video in a faster than real time mining performance . This approach is based on the linear system consistency analysis , and consequently is called QLS . Since the QLS approach only focuses on what exactly is necessary to compute a solution , it saves the computation to a minimum and achieves the efficacy to the maximum . Evaluations from real data show that QLS delivers effective mining performance at the achieved efficiency .
1 Introduction
A target in motion from a surveillance video may be interpreted as a potential suspicious activity . If the camera is still , the problem of automatic detection of motion from the video is trivial . However , in many applications , it is not possible to have a still camera . An example is in the automatic data collection in military surveillance using unmanned aerial vehicles ( UAVs ) , such as US Predators . In this case , the surveillance goal is to detect any military maneuvers , which are typically manifested as the target motion in the video . Note that since in this case the cameras in UAVs are also in motion , the problem of detecting any target motion is consequently translated to the problem of detecting independent motion ( IM ) — the motion other than the camera motion . Fig 1 shows exemplary frames from the real US Predator surveillance videos that represent two different scenarios : a scene with IM and a scene without IM . Due to the fact of large scale , automatic data collection ( multiple Predators in nonstop data collection ) in a typical military surveillance , the data volume is massive . It is noted that due to the fast development of unmanned surveillance and data collection technologies , the existence of such massive surveillance databases is ubiquitous . On the other hand , manual mining for the detection of IM is painfully proven to be extremely tedious and prohibitively expensive . Consequently , solutions to automatically mining video data to retrieve shots containing IM are in high demand . This paper addresses this data mining problem , and motivated by this demand , a highly efficient and effective data mining algorithm is developed in this research for automatically retrieving any shots that contain IM from a surveillance video .
There are two scenarios related to IM detection . Given a video sequence , quantitative IM detection refers to temporal segmentation into those shots that contain the scene in which one or more independently moving targets are present , and spatial segmentation and delineation of each of the independently moving targets in each of the frames of these shots . Qualitative IM detection , on the other hand , refers to only the temporal segmentation of the video sequence to return those shots that contain IM ; it does not perform spatial segmentation to identify the independently moving targets in each frame . The focus of this paper is primarily on qualitative IM detection . Taking the motivated applications of the US military surveillance data shown in Fig 1 , once the shots containing IM are automatically detected and retrieved , the major painstaking and tedious mining effort ( ie , manual searching the massive video data to detect those shots containing IM ) is saved because the
1 majority of the video does not have IM . Therefore , in terms of the data mining concern for detecting IM , the objective is qualitative IM detection from the temporal sequence of the video , as opposed to quantitative IM detection in all the frames .
Motion analysis has been a focused topic in computer vision and image understanding research for many years [ 8 , 3 , 2 ] . IM analysis deals with multiple motion components simultaneously , and therefore , presumably is more challenging .
Most of the existing techniques for IM detection in the literature aim at quantitative detection [ 7 , 4 , 1 ] . Due to this fact , very few of them can afford efficient performance , as their solutions to temporal IM detection depend on spatial IM segmentations . While quantitative detection is useful in general , due to the specific applications that have motivated this project , a qualitative approach is sufficient . This is based on the following two reasons . ( i ) In the military and intelligence applications , the time issue , ie , the detection efficiency , is always an important concern . Obviously the qualitative approach saves time as the spatial segmentation in the image domain in each frame is avoided . ( ii ) It is not necessary to take a quantitative approach in these applications . Even if the independently moving targets are all segmented and identified in each frame in the quantitative approaches , given the current status of computer vision and artificial intelligence in general , it is not possible to have a fully automated capability to interpret whether the segmented and identified IM in the frames indicates any military or intelligence significance without human expertise’ interaction . Therefore , these detected shots must be left to the Image Analysts for further analysis anyway , regardless of whether or not the independently moving targets are segmented and identified in each frames of these shots .
The other observation is that in the literature , most of the existing techniques for IM detection are based on image sequences , as opposed to compressed video streams . This restriction ( or assumption ) significantly hinders these techniques from practical applications , as in today ’s world , information volume grows explosively , and all the video sequences are archived in compressed forms . This is particularly true in the applications this paper concerns , in which the data volume is massive and they must be archived in a compressed form , such as MPEG .
Based on these considerations , we have developed a completely qualitative approach to solving for the automatic IM detection problem directly from the compressed surveillance video in an efficient performance . By an efficient performance , it is meant that the data mining speed is faster than the real time performance . This capability allows two possible application scenarios for this technology . The first is to equip this algorithm with the sensors to allow realtime data mining while the sensors are in surveillance . The second is to mine an archived surveillance video database in which all the video data are stored in a compressed format ; the fast scanning performance allows efficiently automatic mining the data to retrieve shots containing IM . This qualitative approach is based on the linear system consistency analysis , and consequently is called QLS .
2 QLS
Assuming that the camera model is a 3D to 2D affine [ 5 ] , it can be shown [ 10 ] that given macroblocks in a frame of an MPEG compressed video stream , we can build a linear system :
, , .
( 1 ) with the following theorem :
Theorem 2.1 Given macroblocks in a video frame represented in the linear system in Eq 1 , if there is no IM with any of these macroblocks , then the linear system is consistent .
The consistency of Eq 1 is defined by determining the value of the statistic :
,
. ,
. , .
( 2 ) where . , and . , . are the smallest singular values of the coefficient matrix , and the augmented matrix , . , respectively , assuming Eq 1 has unique solution if it is consistent ; multiple solution cases may be handled similarly . Consequently , Eq 1 is consistent iff is above a threshold . In MPEG compression standard , for each macroblock in a frame , if this macroblock is inter coded , there is a motion vector available . Since the macroblock information ( including the motion vector and the center coordinates ) can be easily obtained directly from a compressed MPEG video stream , we have a linear system Eq 1 that can directly work on the MPEG compressed data without having to depend on a specific algorithm to compute the correspondence or optical flow between the two frames , and
2 without having to decompress the video stream [ 6 ] . If the macroblock is intra coded , we just exclude this macroblock from the linear system of Eq 1 . If the frame is an I frame in which all the macroblocks are intra coded , , fi . This could be a false positive , which can be easily removed by filtering the statistics , resulting in rejection of this false positive in the final detection .
We use the normal flow [ 9 , 7 ] to detect IM . The rationale is that if the normal flow is low , the motion vector is probably not accurately estimated ; consequently this macroblock should be rejected from Eq 1 .
Now the QLS algorithm is summarized as follows , which takes four parameters : the normal flow threshold fi , the scan window width , the statistic threshold fifi , and the defined minimum number of frames fi' of a segment that contains IM .
Scan an input video stream in compressed MPEG For every pair of consecutive frames
Start to build up the linear system Eq 1 For each macroblock of frame   of the pair
Estimate the normal flow of If fi
Incorporate into Eq 1
Compute of the linear system Eq 1
Compute the median filtered ' over a window of If '   fi fifi
Label   as no IM ( NIM )
Else , label   as a frame with IM ( IM ) Any IM segment fi' is retrieved
3 Experimental Evaluations
We have implemented the QLS as a stand alone version in a Windows2000 platform with Pentium III 800 MHz CPU and 512 MB memory . Fig 1(c ) and ( d ) show the original statistics computed at every frames for the two shots from two surveillance videos in Fig 1(a ) and ( b ) , respectively . The statistics are obvious to tell whether and where there is IM in the video . The first shot containing 1119 frames describes an IM of a missile launcher moving to its destination . The mean of the original is 1.0 and the deviation is 0.00122 over the 1119 frames . The second shot containing 1058 frames surveys an area of ground terrain with no IM . The mean of the original is 1.389 and the deviation is 0.169 over the 1058 frames . A separate evaluation with over 160,000 frames of real surveillance data indicates an 81.27 % precision and a 93.6 % recall of QLS [ 10 ] .
Since QLS essentially just needs to compute the value for each frame , and since in each frame there is typically a very limited number of macroblocks , the complexity of QLS is very low . The current implemented version of QLS scans a compressed MPEG video with a typical frame resolution of 240 by 350 at the speed of 35 frames/second under the current platform , which is already faster than real time . Note that this implementation is just for proof of the concept and the code has not been optimized . This shows that QLS holds great promise and vitality in the future applications in both proposed scenarios : real time data mining equipped with the sensors and fast data mining for an archived database .
4 Conclusions
This paper presents an efficient and effective approach to automatically mining surveillance video data for IM based on a qualitative , linear system approach called QLS . As compared with the existing techniques and available technologies , the QLS has the following distinctive advantages : ( i ) No camera calibration is required or necessary , ie , image coordinates directly from the video frame may be used without having to convert them into calibrated coordinates . ( ii ) The statistics computed in the algorithm are stable due to the Low condition numbers of the matrices , resulting in avoiding the unstable matrix computation problem of high condition numbers typically existing in many computer vision and image understanding techniques . ( iii ) No specific motion model is assumed , ie , QLS is able to detect IM for any motion models , either planar or parallax motion , or either dense parallax or sparse parallax camera motion . ( iv ) QLS is able to detect IM only based on two frames , as opposed to some techniques in the literature requiring more than two frames . ( v ) Due to the qualitative nature , the QLS complexity is very low , and is able to have efficient detection . ( vi ) QLS directly works on the compressed data ; it does not need to decompress a video before applying the detection . ( vii ) QLS only requires one camera video stream to be able to detect IM , as opposed to some techniques in the literature that require stereo video streams .
3
Acknowledgment
This work is supported in part by NEC Research Institute , Inc . at Princeton , NJ , DARPA , and AFOSR . The author acknowledges Stoyan Kourtev and Xunyin Wang at SUNY Binghamton , Binghamton , NY , for part of the implementation of QLS . The author is also grateful to David W . Jacobs at NEC Research Institute for many useful and enlightening discussions .
References
[ 1 ] AA Argyros and SC Orphanoudakis .
Independent 3D motion detection based on depth elimination in normal flow fields . In Proc . International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition . IEEE Computer Society Press , 1997 . [ 2 ] O . Faugeras . Three Dimensional Computer Vision :
A Geometric Viewpoint . MIT Press , 1993 .
[ 3 ] TS Huang and CH Lee . Motion and structure from orthographic views . IEEE Trans . Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 11:536–540 , 1989 .
[ 4 ] M . Irani and P . Anandan . A unified approach to moving object detection in 2D and 3D scenes . In Proc . of IUW , 1996 .
[ 5 ] DW Jacobs . Recognizing 3 D Objects Using 2 D
Images . PhD Dissertation , MIT AI Lab . , 1992 .
[ 6 ] S W . Lee , Y M . Kim , and SW Choi . Fast scene change detection using direct feature extraction from MPEG compressed videos . IEEE Trans . Multimedia , 2(4):240–254 , 2000 .
[ 7 ] R . Sharma and Y . Aloimonos . Early detection of independent motion from active control of normal image flow patterns . IEEE Trans . SMC , 26(1):42–53 , 1996 .
[ 8 ] S . Ullman . The Interpretation of Visual Motion .
MIT Press , 1979 .
[ 9 ] A . Verri and T . Poggio . Motion field and optical flow : qualitative properties . IEEE Trans . Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 11(5):490–498 , 1989 .
[ 10 ] Z . Zhang . Qualitative independent motion de tection . Computer Science Tech Report , 2002 .
( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
Figure 1 : ( a ) An example of a shot containing an independently moving target ( a missile launcher ) ( b ) An example of a shot containing no IM ( terrain ) ( c ) The original statistics computed for the shot in ( a ) ( 1119 frames ) ( d ) The original statistics computed for the shot in ( b ) ( 1058 frames ) .
4
