DoNet : A Semantic Domotic Framework∗
Malcolm Attard University Of Malta
Msida MSD06
Malta
00356 99882329 malcolmattard@gmailcom
ABSTRACT In the very near future complete households will be entirely networked as a de facto standard . In this poster we briefly describe our work in the area of domotics , where personalization , semantics and agent technology come together . We illustrate a home system oriented ontology and an intelligent agent based framework for the rapid development of home control and automation . The ever changing nature of the home , places the user in a position were he needs to be involved and become , through DoNet , a part of an ongoing home system optimization process .
Categories and Subject Descriptors D211 [ Languages ] : Domotic Ontology , D213 [ Domain Engineering ] : Home [ INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS ] : Home Automation
Systems , H.4
General Terms Management , Design , Standardization , Languages
Keywords Domotics , Agents , Semantic Web
1 . INTRODUCTION Every human being naturally thrives to improve his/her home such as to make it a better place . The networked home can be considered as an intersection of sociology and technology . It is subdivided as two human networks , the internal household network and the external human network . It is also perceived as a living space involving social , physical and technological spaces [ 10 ] . The current direction of home systems points towards progressive adoption of specific technologies rather than mass adoption in the home . Domotics is the application software and hardware in housing applied to the areas of safety and security ( ex . Alarms , surveillance etc. ) , comfort and self care ( ex . Light control , ventilation control , heating control , organisational aids etc. ) , communication ( ex . Telephone systems , videophone , distant working and education etc ) , property control and management [ 2],[7 ] . Its objective is to improve and enhance an individual ’s lifestyle through the use of a number of devices and services , turning ones dwelling into an ‘active participant’ of one ’s life . The mass deployment of pervasive devices within the home , our working and leisure environments will effect the perception we have of our surroundings and will have greater social , economic
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 .
Dr . Matthew Montebello
University of Malta
Msida MSD06
Malta 00356 mmon1@csumedumt and political implications . Our objective was to develop an effective representation and architecture for domotic systems , focusing mainly on the elements of configurability and personalization and the capability to handle progressive adoption of technologies in the home .
2 . ONTOLOGY To define a home system , a human readable and also computable language is essential . The DoNet ontology makes use of SOUPA [ 4 ] and SOUPA extensions together with time entry ( subontology of OWL Time [ 5 ] ) and OWL S [ 6 ] . It gives means to enable multiple representations for things within a home system .
A building , a room , an area within a room , areas in between rooms , corridors etc . , are all represented as DoNet SpatialThings . Items which have a function , or simply some sort of contextual relevant representation can also be defined . It is assumed that anything which has spatial properties can also hold a function and/or state , wherever it is located . DoNet provides means to define Services , Functions and their Relations with service managing entities . There are a number of important direct and indirect relationships between entities in DoNet . Amongst these we find both item and service management , as well as function and state holding relationships . The ontology also provides means to define user and their preferences . Influenced by the work done by Alferes , JJ and W . May [ 1 ] , we also define OWL eventcondition action rules ( ECA ) . Such a rule can have an event , lack of event or time based triggers . The ontology also defines the concept of composite and language independent conditions , together with service invocation definitions as actions . These combined features provide an expressive rule definition language . 3 . FRAMEWORK The DoNet agent based software architecture ( Figure 1 ) is biased towards loosely coupled distributed context paradigm similar to Peer to Peer applications .
Figure 1 – DoNet Architecture
∗ This research results from the European Network of Excellence project REWERSE [ 8 ]
Whilst still withholding to the concept of a context server [ 3 ] , it relaxes the concept by defining all autonomous agents to have context interpretation and reasoning capabilities . The predefined agent types are a central event/context management agent , a physical and virtual function agents and a web application handling agent . Making the user interface accessible from any web accessible location is of obvious advantage for a home system since one can remotely oversee and control the environment . The user has access to a number of pages including a raw ontology editor , entity pages , a suggestion page and information page . DoNet also provides a rule editor based on Accord ’s [ 9 ] puzzle editor interface . The interface consists of a puzzle piece choice area , an actual rules area and a proposed rule area . While a user is building the puzzle through this application the system builds intermediate rule representations , which are then persisted as OWL representations . Each puzzle piece has a set of editable properties which frequently contain function invocation parameters . Rules can be defined both at item or abstracted location level . appropriately , on command ,
4 . RULES & REASONING All DoNet agents are capable of interpreting ECA rules . These rules define the reactive behaviour of the agent . When an event matches a trigger , the agent reacts and performs the necessary actions . Using the OWL class hierarchy relationships and a general OWL Reasoner the system can reason on a number of relationships between locations and other entities ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 – Location function and state flow include
The three primary relationships which are used in DoNet to define a domotic function propagation and state propagation . Rule based reasoners are used for energy saving and proximity while a case based approach is taken for device and rule detection . A sample consumption related rule is shown below : subsumption , space , spatial
( ?item1 ditems:consumesLess ?item2 ) <(?item1 ditems:consumptionDegree ?v ) , ( ?item2 ditems:consumptionDegree ?w ) , lessThan(?v,?w ) .
The ability to quickly develop functionality within this framework is essential . For example to add media playing functionality the first step is to develop an agent which is capable of starting and stopping a media player and playing any file or play list . The software component must extend the DoNetAgent class . Alternatively one could re use an existing agent and add the needed behaviour . The next step is to add structures in the space in OWL abbreviated xml format which define the agent , playing functions and services . After definition the function puzzle pieces architecture with coupled distributed are available for use in the editor and one can define rules based on the new functionality . 5 . CONCLUSION This work takes home control systems to a new level , through a loosely intelligent capabilities . It provides the resident users with important information to help them reduce their energy consumption , secure their space and monitor and control devices as they see fit . It provides developers with means to plug in modules and to re use reasoning and communication mechanisms which are not otherwise available . DoNet steps away from the commonly used script based approaches to a well defined semantic core , opening the door to a multitude of extension possibilities and powerful home applications . 6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Alferes , JJ and W . May , Evolution and reactivity for the web , in Reasoning Web , N . Eisinger and J . Maluszynski , Editors . 2005 , Springer .
[ 2 ] Berlo , Av , Design Guidelines on Smart Homes , in A
COST 219bis Guidebook , PRW Roe , Editor . 2001 .
[ 3 ] Chen , H . , T . Finin , and A . Joshi , An Intelligent Broker Architecture for Context Aware Systems Adjunct Proceedings of Ubicomp 2003 , 2003 : p . 183 184 .
[ 4 ] Chen , H . , et al . SOUPA : Standard Ontology for Ubiquitous in International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems : Networking and Services . 2004 . Boston , MA .
Pervasive Applications . and
[ 5 ] Hobbs , JR and F . Pan , An ontology of time for the semantic web . ACM Transactions on Asian Language Information Processing ( TALIP ) , 2004 . 3(1 ) : p . 66 85 . [ 6 ] Martin , DL , et al . Bringing Semantics to Web Services : The OWL S Approach . in SWSWPC . 2004 : Springer .
[ 7 ] Mekibes , B . How to assess IT in housing ? in Conference on IT and Architecture . 2001 . Aarhus , Denmark .
[ 8 ] REWERSE . Reasoning on the Web with Rules and Semantics . 2005 [ cited 2005 December ] ; Available from : http://rewersenet/
[ 9 ] Rodden , T . , et al . Between the dazzle of a new building and its eventual corpse : Assembling the ubiquitous home . in DIS '04 : Proceedings of the 2004 conference on Designing interactive systems . 2004 . Cambridge , MA , USA : ACM Press .
[ 10 ] Venkatesh , A . , E . Kruse , and EC F Shih , The networked home : an analysis of current developments . and future trends . Cogn Tech Work , 2003 . 5 : p . 23
