Mobile Web Publishing and Surfing Based on
Environmental Sensing Data
Daisuke Morikawa Masaru Honjo Satoshi Nishiyama Masayoshi Ohashi
3 10 10 Iidabashi Chiyoda ku Tokyo , 102 8460 , Japan
KDDI Corporation
+81 49 278 7883
{da morikawa , ms honjou , sa nishiyama , ma oohashi}@kddi.com
ABSTRACT This paper presents a framework for mobile web publishing and surfing of mobile content based on the environmental sensing data , which is recognized by a cell phone equipped with active RFID transmitter/receiver , GPS and so on . Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ World Wide Web ( WWW ) ] General Terms : Experimentation , Human Factors Keywords : RFID , GPS , web publishing , web browsing , location , sensor , personalization
1 . INTRODUCTION The excess and wide distribution of digital content on the WWW makes it difficult for users to efficiently access their desired content under the environment of cell phone based web access . At the same time , the demand for personalized , life style enhancing services ( eg , publishing and/or surfing the customized contents ) on a daily life will increase . This paper proposes the sensing mechanism of the user ’s situational information captured only “ at that place ” and “ at that time ” via a cell phone , and also describes the mechanism of the content publishing and content surfing based on such sensing data .
2 . SENSING USER’S SITUATION Cell phone terminals equipped with a camera , a GPS receiver , active RFID transmitter/receiver ( reader ) have been developed by KDDI for trial purpose . Java application software can control these all functions and the web browser can be called by this java application . The snapshot of a cell phone equipped with activetype RFID tag transmitter/receiver and its features are shown in Figure 1 and Table 1 , respectively . A cell phone has a capability of both receiving and broadcasting the tag ID and the number of tag ID can be controlled by a java application on a cell phone . Stand alone type RFID transmitter/receiver also has the same functions . We first assume that three types of active tags are set every room in a building . First one is associated with the indoor location ( Indoor location ID ) , the second one with the recommended information ( Content ID ) , and the last one with nearby person ( User ID for identifying the user ) illustrated in Figure 2 . When a cell phone the corresponding receives tag IDs ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 . information is got from a networked database called ID management server . Thus environmental information around the user can be captured via a cell phone [ 1 ] . ( There are some related works such as [ 2] . ) A mobile commerce using a contact less smart card system such as FeliCa will come into fashion in the near future . From this system , we can get the histories of user ’s purchased items . In combination with the parameters of time , location captured by GPS receiver and nearby information captured by active ID tags , the snapshot captured by this cell phone is shown in Figure 3 . Moreover , by using this cell phone , histories of user activities described below are collected : information displayed on a ) Browsing recommended a cell phone ( automatic web access ) Instant publishing of its annotation with the environmental situation ( eg time , location and nearby person ) favorites pictures and b )
RFID transmitter/receiver
Figure 1 . Active RFID transmitter/receiver . A cell phone attachment type ( left ) and a stand alone type ( right ) .
Table 1 . Table captions should be placed above the table . Operating frequency tag ID bit length Read ranges communication protocol Physical Characteristics Rechargeable battery operation
315MHz variable ( 64 to 128 bit ) < 10m RS 232C 38mm*80mm*10mm Up to 10 hours
Content ID Content ID
GPS location GPS location and time and time
ID manager ID manager
Indoor Indoor Location ID Location ID
User ID User ID
Real Space Real Space
Purchasing Purchasing
The content is also selected via the matching process between the user situation/usage history the content meta data . Each time user movement from one area to another is detected , http request occurs automatically by a Java application and at the same time the situational information would be sent to a server , then the personalized content would be transmitted to a user ’s cell phone terminal .
Information Information
Access Access
Taking Picture and Taking Picture and
Annotation Annotation
User activities User activities
Figure 2 . Resolving received tag ID to corresponding information . nearby persons indoor semantic location recommended information
GPS based information
Figure 3 . A screenshot of cell phone display .
3 . NOVEL MOBILE WEB PUBLISHING AND SURFING 3.1 Mobile Publishing Figure 4 is an example of an instant publishing of a small content . This content is generated by time and location information , nearby persons , a favorite picture , detailed object information by using the technologies mentioned above . Blog like web GUI could be also constructed by collecting these kinds of small contents generated by the user [ 3 ] . User activities in a daily life have been registered based on the user ’s intention via the proposed system . When a user comes back to the location where a user had registered some activities , a mobile terminal detects a current location and transfers this location information to this server via a web interface ( http post/get ) . And then this server can get this user ’s current location , user activity information regarding previous activities at this location could be returned to the user ’s mobile terminal .
3.2 Personalized Content Surfing The type of content that should be distributed to users may mainly depend on the user's current activities and/or demands . However it is difficult to obtain this information directly from users themselves . We therefore propose content recommendation according to the user's situational information and history of application usage on a cell phone .
Figure 4 . A screenshot of cell phone based application .
4 . CONCLUSION This paper consists of a cell phone terminal equipped with an active RFID transmitter/receiver . The functions of capturing of both user situation and history of application usage on a cell phone have been developed and the typical publishing and surfing application have been also described . In disseminating ( publishing ) user information , users are concerned about privacy issues . This reflects the tradeoff between permitting access to personal information and obtaining these kinds of services . So we are now in the progress of designing the privacy control mechanism using XACML [ 4 ] .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was performed under the research project of Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications in Japan .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Morikawa , et al . , “ A proposal of user profile management framework for context aware services , ” In Proc . of SAINT2005 Workshop , Jan . 2005 .
[ 2 ] G . Jim et al . , “ The MyLifeBits Lifetime Store , ” In Proc . of
ETP 2003 , Nov . 2003 .
[ 3 ] M . Honjo , et al . , “ Profile Blog : Blog based Life Log Viewer Capable of Profile Associations , ” In Proc . of Mobisys 2005 Poster , June 2005 .
[ 4 ] XACML ( eXtensible Access Control Markup
Language ) , http://wwwoasis openorg/committees/ tc_ home.php?wg_abbrev=xacml
