Context Orientated News Filtering for Web 2.0 and Beyond
David Webster
Centre for Internet Computing
The University of Hull Scarborough Campus
United Kingdom
DEWebster@dcshullacuk
Weihong Huang Faculty of Computing ,
Information Systems , and
Mathematics
Kingston University
Kingston Upon Thames
United Kingdom
WHuang@kingstonacuk
Darren Mundy , Paul Warren
Centre for Internet Computing
The University of Hull Scarborough Campus
United Kingdom
DMundy@hullacuk , pjwarren@hullacuk
ABSTRACT How can we solve the problem of information overload in news syndication ? This poster outlines the path from keywordbased body text matching to distance measurable taxonomic tag matching , on to context scale and practical uses .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information filtering ; H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Relevance feedback ; H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Clustering
General Terms Algorithms , Human Factors , Standardization
Keywords Aggregation , Context , RSS , Tags , Web 2.0 , Word Senses
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The practical use of RSS news syndication is where users can subscribe to a web site ’s RSS feed using a desktop news aggregator . One of the problems of desktop news aggregation is the issue of information overload[2 ] . If , for example , 5 RSS news feeds are subscribed to by a user , and each news feed produces 10 news items per day on average , then the user will have to filter through 50 news items in total per day . Depending on the user , this number may ( or may not ) be manageable . For all of RSS ’s convenience , the need can , be seen for intelligent filtering in client side aggregation .
2 . PROBLEM SOLUTION APPROACHES
As has been previously noted , the need can , therefore , be seen for intelligent filtering on the client side of news aggregation . Existing news aggregation software lets users manually create categories and add news feeds to them . Recently , however , news aggregators , such as NewsFire and NetNewsWire have used the idea of ’s mart lists’ , where users create categories based upon criteria and keywords they choose ; these are then matched against the content of incoming news items . This is similar to setting up an
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 .
Approaches
Keyword to item body
Keyword to item category/topic tag
Namespaced keyword to namespaced item category/topic tag
Taxonony keyword to taxonomy item category/topic tag
Advanced context modelling
Level
1
2
3
4
5
Figure 1 : Approaches Stack email filter or virtual folder . The RSS 1.0 , 2.0 and ATOM standards include category information for each news item , which enables a more elegant way to determine the topic of a news item than matching keywords against the item ’s text body . It is worth noting that during the time of publication of our previous paper[6 ] , topic categorization was scarcely utilized by RSS content providers , but is now increasingly used by RSS blogging software , such as Wordpress .
2.1 Word Sense Disambiguation
When a user creates a category/topic annotation for a news feed , or any other web object for that matter , word sense disambiguation becomes a concern . When a user enters the keyword into a computer , the system needs to identify and understand the sense of the word . One could easily think of three senses of the word Java for example ; programming language , coffee or island . There is also the issue of basic level variation , polysemy and synonymy . [ 5 ] A nice quotation from Dave Winer [ 3 ] , states :
You guys want users to enter metadata , I’m looking for ways to get around that , because I have found that people don’t even spell things right , much less label things .
To aid in this process a public folksonomy , such as Technorati can be utilized . Similarly , a knowledge base can be used , such as the DMOZ and WordNET . Taking the coffee sense of the word Java , taking a path through the DMOZ tree would give us : http://dmozorg//Coffee and Tea/Coffee . By explicitly identifying the sense of a word , the system does not have to determine the sense of the user ’s category annotation or query . A problem that still remains is that of being able to communicate this to the user . It is unlikely that a user will want to search for , and enter , the path manually for every noun in their query . In order to solve this issue we have developed a graphical interface between the user and the DMOZ knowledge base .
2.2 Context
The Oxford English Dictionary defines context in two ways : the circumstances that form the setting for an event , statement , or idea , and in terms of which it can be fully understood . and ; the parts that immediately precede and follow a word or passage and clarify its meaning . Therefore , in the area of SW information we can say that context is used , not just in word sense disambiguation , but also to expand data to give it more meaning . This notion is not that different from providing metadata about information in an environment in order to enrich its meaning . We can therefore make the connection between context and metadata and imply that metadata can be used to provide additional contextual information for an entity .
Often related to information searching in information retrieval , context can be used to increase the quality of search results[8 ] . Recent works in this area have revolved around the utilization of context from work tasks for information retrieval and , historic contexts of the user ’s IR[7 , 10 ] and acquiring context from implicit sources of evidence[1 ] .
3 . PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
A simple use for RSS news topic extraction is the autocategorization of news feeds ( and also that of individual news items ) in a desktop news aggregator . In this scenario , the news aggregation software requests the RSS news feed from the provider ’s web server . The RSS feed is then parsed by the news aggregator , which then extracts category tags from the news items . From this information , new category folders can be created in the client software and new news items can be assigned to these categories . Whilst this approach works well for simple keywords , the keyword matching system does not match contextually related topic keywords . A combination of the idea of ’s mart lists’ ( or a user topic interests profile ) with a taxonomy based related keyword finder the filter will provide two things : avoid polysemy mis matches ; and to match against related topics in a user profile . With the combination of taxonomy based topic matching and a word distance measure , it is possible to measure the distance between sense derived keywords in the user ’s profile and words matched in the news feed[9 ] . Work involving this method of taxonomy based word distance calculation will form a significant component of a future paper we are preparing . In this approach , we will consider the discussion of context information in news aggregation from two perspectives ; the client side and the service provision side . Just as in the previous example , filtering happens on the client side ; this filtering could easily be transfered to a server based solution . Just as a user can create a set of category/smart folders in his client , these options could be saved as a user profile and uploaded to a server . The server based approach has the advantage of being usable with a dumb client , which can be used to subscribe to a single aggregated and filtered RSS feed . [ More details on the wall poster ]
4 . SUMMARY AND LIMITATIONS OF THE
APPROACH
The above technique illustrates one possible method of adding contextual information to an XML information source : a news feed , in the form of topic information for each news item . As can be demonstrated in the narrow domain of news syndication , there are a number of discrepant formats , each with their own methods of storing topic/category information for news items , and the feeds themselves . Our approach could be extended from simple RSS news to WWW page annotations and/or RDF document or multimedia descriptions . In order to be able to intelligently and pragmatically store and process topic/context information , we must consider two things : firstly , that topic is just one form of context information ; and secondly , how to capture , then store and process context information for a web object , ( such as an RSS news item ) in a standardized and communicable way . For the scope of this poster , we consider context as an array of topic information for a given web object , but are actively working towards dealing with context in a much richer and high level manner , to be presented in future work . An important direction for the approach is in testing and validating against current information filtering and text matching techniques used in RSS and email filtering . Issues that need to be considered include the quality and accuracy of the filtered result news items . A limitation of testing would be the availability of test source data , although , as previously stated , RSS providers are now starting to use topic information in their feeds . The next step will be to use namespaced tags , such as Technorati in their news feeds , with the progression to using tags from a taxonomy knowledge base such as DMOZ , which will give the advanced ability to measure the distance between tags . The scope of the approach presented here should be explored with related projects such as user interest clustering[4 ] and profiling to provide a piece of a much larger solution to information overload .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] N . J . Belkin , G . Muresan , and X . M . Zhang . Using user ’s context for ir personalization . In SIGIR 2004 Information Retrieval in Context , pages 23–25 . ACM , 2004 .
[ 2 ] H . Berghel . Cyberspace 2000 : dealing with information overload . Comm . ACM , 40(2):19–24 , 1997 .
[ 3 ] M . Canter . Attaching meta data or not , 2006 . [ 4 ] D . Godoy and A . Amandi . User profiling for web page filtering . IEEE Internet Computing , 9(4):56–64 , 2005 .
[ 5 ] S . Golder and B . A . Huberman . The structure of collaborative tagging systems , 2005 .
[ 6 ] W . Huang and D . Webster . Enabling context aware agents to understand semantic resources on the wwwand the semantic web . In Web Intelligence , pages 138–144 . IEEE Computer Society , 2004 .
[ 7 ] P . Ingwersen and K . Jarvelin . Information retrieval in contexts . In SIGIR 2004 Information Retrieval in Context , pages 6–9 . ACM , 2004 .
[ 8 ] G . J . F . Jones and P . J . Brown . The role of context in information retrieval . In SIGIR 2004 Information Retrieval in Context , pages 20–22 . ACM , 2004 .
[ 9 ] S . Patwardhan , S . Banerjee , and T . Pedersen . Using measures of semantic relatedness for word sense disambiguation . In Fourth International Conference on Intelligent Text Processing and Computational Linguistics ( CICLING 03 ) , 2003 .
[ 10 ] I . Ruthven . and this set of words represents the user ’s context In SIGIR 2004 Information Retrieval in Context , page 10 . ACM , 2004 .
