Community Discovery and Analysis in Blogspace
Ying Zhou , Joseph Davis
School of Information Technologies , The University of Sydney , Australia
{zhouy , jdavis}@itusydeduau
ABSTRACT Weblog has quickly evolved into a new information and knowledge dissemination channel . Yet it is not easy to discover weblog communities through keyword search . The main contribution of this paper is the study of weblog communities from the perspective of social network analysis . We proposed a new way of collecting and preparing data for weblog community discovery . The data collection stage focuses on gaining knowledge of the strength of social ties between weblogs . The strength of social ties and the clustering feature of social network guided the discovery of weblog communities . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Clustering and Retrieval models . General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Keywords Weblog , Community , Social Network , Social tie 1 . INTRODUCTION
Weblogging has been the latest Internet killer application , with thousands of blogs added to the Internet everyday . For a simple definition , weblogs are web pages with several dated entries usually arranged in reverse chronological order [ 3 ] . Each entry of a blog has its own “ permalink ” ( Permanent URL address ) . In most cases , all entriess of a particular weblog are written by a single author . Sometimes , a weblog can have a few co authors . The authors of blog entries are called bloggers . The rapid growth in weblogs promotes a new , dynamic and loosely organized on line community activity . Such communities are usually formed by bloggers listing each other on the side bar of their weblogs and especially by commenting on and citing each others ’s entries . The prominent feature of those communities is the speed and accuracy of capturing the latest discussion and information on an array of t opics ranging from politics to specific technologies . More and more Internet users are keen on locating and following the discussion of topics of their own interest from particular communities . Yet it is very difficult to discover such online communities , especially those that discuss less popular topics . Currently , people get to know those communities either through word of mouth , or through limited categorization or search services provided by well known websites such as New York Times which maintains a list of popular blogs under different categories . There are also a few specialized search
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 . is engines such as Google's BlogSearch , bloglines.com , daypop.com and blogdexcom Those specialized blog search services perform page level retrieval and are similar from traditional web keywords based search except that they have more focused content . Internet users perform web search and weblog search for entirely different purposes . They use web search to obtain information . For instance , we may enter keyword like “ Voronio partition ” in Google to get the explanation or definition of this term . This is most likely an one off action . Only on rare occasion , we might bookmark the result page for further reference . Weblog search , on the other hand is meant to be the first step of a sustainable publish/subscribe process . For instance , if we type “ web services ” in bloglines.com , our purpose is to find the community of bloggers that actively write on “ web services ” and keep tracking what they are talking about for a certain period of time . We are not looking for one off information . The contribution of the study of weblog this project communities from the perspective of social network analysis . We proposed a new way of collecting and preparing data for community search which emphasizes gaining information on the strength of social ties between weblogs . The social tie strength data are used as key knowledge in discovering closely knitted communities from a large set of interwoven weblogs . 2 . METHODOLOGY 2.1 Blog Communities and Social Networks A blog community is the network of bloggers who write on similar topics and from time to time read , write and comment on each others' posts . A blog community can be viewed as a special type of social network which is defined as a set of people or groups connected with each other under a particular relationship [ 4 ] . Examples of typical social network include the friendship network of high school students and scientific coauthorship network of academics . In social network terminology , the people or groups are called "actors" and the connections are called "ties" . In a blog community context , the bloggers who write weblogs are the actors and the hyperlinks between weblogs are ties . Bloggers generally have read and respond relations with each other . These are indicated by hyperlinks between weblogs . The blogroll lists the read relations while hyperlinks appear in the entry bodies or entry comments represent the respond relations . Each hyperlink is a communication instance between two bloggers . The number of instances would indicate the strength of tie between bloggers . Bloggers in a community should have strong ties with other members [ 2 ] . 2.2 Blogspace acquisition The starting point of weblog community identification is a connected blogspace with relatively similar topic . Since weblog rather than individual web page is the unit of analysis,a special weblog crawler is developed to construct the blogspaces .
33000 lines . Pajek ( http://vladofmfuni ljsi/pub/networks/pajek/ ) is used to perform the partition and the visualization .
The weblog crawler takes a weblog URL as seed and incrementally adds ties between weblogs in the collection . Let us consider the simplest case which finds all tie instances from the seed to other weblogs . The simple algorithm has two steps :
1 . Construct a large candidate set of hyperlinks find in all pages of the seed weblog .
2 . Remove hyperlinks pointing back to the seed ( including home page , entry pages , or archive pages ) and hyperlinks not pointing to weblogs . The remaining set consists of hyperlinks pointing to other weblogs . These hyperlinks may appear in the blogroll , entry body or comment section . Each hyperlink in the remaining set is considered as an instance of some certain tie .
The basic algorithm will generate a star shaped graph with seed in the center and all edges coming out from it . To construct the blogspace , we can repeat the basic algorithm for each distinct weblogs appear in the target end of the edges discovered so far . Table 1 gives the crawling algorithm . In implementation , step 1 and step 2 are executed in pipeline style for efficiency and a variable depth is used to control the size of the blogspace . Table 1 The main weblog crawler algorithm crawl ( link , depth )
1 Url = seed url ; depth = 0 ; 2 method crawl ( Url , depth ) 3 if ( depth < maxDepth ) 4 for all hyper links link in Url 5 if link belongs to the same weblog 6
7 else if link points a weblog entry 8
9
10 11 end if 12 end for 13 end if 14 end method . find the home page of link as link.home add a record Url.home and link.home crawl(link.home , depth + 1 )
2.3 Blog community extraction The blogspace constructed usually contains several thousands or more unique weblogs . We expected to discover community structure from it . To construct the directed graph , we first removed the multiple lines between two vertices and assign the line value as the number of lines . This is interpreted as the strength of tie between weblogs . We adopt the island partitioning algorithm developed by Vladimir Batagelj [ 1 ] to extract blog communities . Here island is defined as a connected small sub network of size [ min , max ] with stronger internal line weight than line weight to vertices outside the subnetwork . Island partition is a hierarchical clustering method . The algorithm first orders all ties in decreasing order of their strength . It then , in the sorted order , merges ties to form sub network , based on common vertex of sub networks . All sub networks form a hierarchical structure , with possibly a common root . Desirable sub networks were chosen from the hierarchy based on the size range . It was set to [ 5 , 50 ] in the experiment . 3 . EXPERIMENTS As a case study , we took Savas Parastadist ’s weblog ( savasparastatidistname ) as seed to get an interconnected blogspace . It contains around 3800 unique weblogs and over
Figure 1 Web Services blog communities
15 communities were identified from the blogspace , each with its own theme . Figure 1 is a visual display of the communities and members . We only illustrate the communities of "general web services" and community with a focus on ".NET and XML" technology . Majority of the community members we discovered are not able to be located through current blog search engines . We used the keyword "web services","NET","ASPNET" in Google's BlogSearch , bloglines.com , blogdex.net and daypop.com and checked the top 20 results returned . Except for blogdex.net , which contains some web services weblogs , none of the rest has those members returned . 4 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we studied the elements of social ties between weblogs and use the tie strength data as key knowledge to discover closely related communities from large and loosely connected blogspace . There are many applications for the methods we proposed . For instance it can be used to prepare and search local copy of web pages to build the blogspace . There are also opportunities for future work to improve the clustering techniques we used here . 5 . REFERENCE [ 1 ] Batagelj V . Analysis of large networks – Islands Presented at Dagstuhl seminar 03361 : Algorithmic Aspects of Large and Complex Networks Dagstuhl , 2003
[ 2 ] Granovetter M . The Strength of weak ties : network theory revisited . Sociological Theory , Vol . 1 ( 1983 ) , 201 233
[ 3 ] Kumar R . , Raghavan P . , and Tomkins A . Trawling the Web for emerging cyber communities . In Proc . 8thth WWW Conference , 1999
[ 4 ] Wasserman S . and Faust K . , Social Network Analysis ,
Cambridge University Press , Cambridge , 1994
