Logical Structure Based Semantic Relationship Extraction from
Semi Structured Documents
Zhang Kuo
Department of Computer Science ,
Tsinghua University , Beijing , 100084 , China zkuo99@mailstsinghuaeducn
Wu Gang
Li JuanZi
Department of Computer Science ,
Department of Computer Science ,
Tsinghua University , Beijing , 100084 , China wug03@mailstsinghuaeducn
Tsinghua University , Beijing , 100084 , China ljz@kegcstsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT Addressed in this paper is the issue of semantic relationship extraction from semi structured documents . Many research efforts have been made so far on the semantic information extraction . However , much of the previous work focuses on detecting ‘isolated’ semantic information by making use of linguistic analysis or linkage information in web pages and limited research has been done on extracting semantic relationship from the semistructured documents . In this paper , we propose a method for semantic relationship extraction by using the logical information in the semi structured document ( semi structured document usually has various types of structure information , eg a semistructured document may be hierarchical laid out ) . To the best of our knowledge , extracting semantic relationships by using logical information has not been investigated previously . A probabilistic approach has been proposed in the paper . Features used in the probabilistic model have been defined .
Categories and Subject Descriptors Intelligence ] : Knowledge Representation I24 Formalisms and Methods Relation systems , Semantic networks
[ Artificial
General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Languages . structure , Relationship
Keywords Semi structured document , Logical extraction , Ontology 1 . INTRODUCTION Currently , there are a few semantic annotation platforms which extract information from web pages and annotate them with ontology . For example , S CREAM [ 1 ] supports the semiautomatic annotation for web pages . KIM [ 2 ] provides a novel Knowledge and Information Management infrastructure and services for automatic semantic annotation , indexing , and retrieval of documents . WebKB [ 3 ] extracts instances of classes and relations based on web page contents and their linkage path . However , few of the previous works focus on detecting semantic relationships . Furthermore , the existent semantic annotation systems mainly discover the relationships making use of web linkage or sentence structures . As a result , only relationships
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 . between pages or within a sentence can be extracted . There also exist a large amount of semi structured documents other than web pages , such as academic papers , enterprise reports . This kind of documents is different from web pages , because they usually do not contain hyperlinks , and authorized in strict logical structure . Therefore , we need a new algorithm that fits into the features in this kind of documents . In this paper , we propose an approach that exploits document logical structure to extract relationships . We first extract text pieces as data type property values with iASA [ 4 ] . Then we compute the probability that two property values are related by the same instance using logistic regression . And then we find the relationships between the property values that maximize the loss function . 2 . Problem Statement Now we formally define the relationship extraction problem that we are solving . We first give the definition of knowledge base in our scenario . A knowledge base can be viewed as a three tupel :
KB =
PCI ,(
,
) where C denotes a set of concepts ; P denotes a set of property ; I let denotes a instance set of all concepts . Specifically , c C∈ denote a concept , p P∈ denote a property and ic I∈ denote an instance of concept c , ie ci We now illustrate the problem of relationship extraction by an example . Say we have a document snippet about hotel information : 1 . Hotel description : c∈ .
The task is to annotate the snippet by the following ontology :
1.1 Name : Holiday inn
1.2 Name : Beijing hotel
111 112
121 122
Address : Beilishi road . Phone number : 12345678
Address : Chang’an road . Phone number:87654321
Figure 1 : Ontology snippet
By semantic information extraction tool ( eg iASA ) , we can obtain :
Name : Holiday inn , Beijing Hotel Address : Beilishi road , Chang’an road Phone number : 12345678 , 87654321 Then the task is to associate the information correspondingly ( ie in this example , we need associate the hotel name , address and phone number ) . This is exactly the problem semantic relationship extraction addresses . Finally , the output might be : logical_distance =
∩ l * level l ( 2 1 2 level l level l ( ( )+ 1
) )
2
2 l∩ denotes their closest common ancestor , and level(l ) l where 1 means the length from l to the root node . 3.2 Instance construction For each concept c , we associate property values with instances so as to maximize the loss function :
Figure 2 : Constructed instances
| p domain p m n c }
( =
(
)
)
= c
Loss
=
∑ p { , m domain p , ∑ p { , m domain p p domain p m n c }
( =
(
) n
| n log(P( r mn
( l a
, l b
) ) )
+ i l ( , b
)} log(1 P(
− r mn
( l a
, l b
) ) )
3 . Our Approach Before explaining our approach assumptions : 1 . Property values for the same instance are usually in the same relative position in logical structure . For instance , hotel name is usually in the parent logical level of hotel address . in detail , we give two
2 . Two property values usually appear in a document in a constant order . For instance , hotel address usually appears before phone number .
2
2 j
,
, l i l l
(
)
)
)
) np mp r mn mnr l ( , 1 i l ( , 1
P∈ , np i l ( , c∈ , c C∈ , mp for any property value pair (
Definition1 . For any property values l1 and l2 , they are called relevant if and only if there exist i P∈ . In other words , l1 and l2 are property having values for the same instance . We use to denote the relevant relation . Our approach has two main steps . At the first step , we use property values extracted by iASA and their logical structure information as input , and exploit logistic regression to predict the probability of . At the second step , we use the relevant probabilities to construct the instances by maximizing a loss function defined in 3.2 section . The output is constructed instances which is similar to figure 2 . 3.1 Relevant Probability Estimation We consider one implementation of our approach . We employ logistical regression [ 5 ] in the relation probability estimation . It has not been investigated previously to the best of our knowledge . The learning based probability estimation consists of two stages : training and prediction . In training , we train a regression model mnλ for each property pair pm , pn that have the same domain concept . Table 1 shows the major features used in the regression model .
) l
, l i j
Table 1 : Features used in regression model
Features
Higher_logic_level Same_logic_level Lower_logic_level
Appear_before Logical_distance Same_sentence Same_paragraph comments
Whether l1 is in a higher logical level than l2 Whether l1 is in the same logical level than l2 Whether l1 is in a lower logical level than l2
Whether l1 appears before l2
The distance in the logical structure tree Whether l1 and l2 are in the same sentence Whether l1 and l2 are in the same paragraph
Where , the logical distance is defined :
∑ i , p n
| ∃ ∧ m l l { , b a i l p ( , ) a ∑ i , ∨ ¬
| ∀ ) a
)
= c l , { , a b i l ( , ¬ l m p p n i l ( , b
)} where p(i , l ) means the value of property p of instance i is l , and P(rmn(la , lb ) ) represents the probability that la and lb are relevant . Obviously , it is impossible to enumerate all the instance list candidates {ic1,ic2,…,ick} , and select the one which maximize the loss function . So we propose an algorithm to construct the instances : Step1 . for each text value l of property p , construct instance i , st p(i,l ) . Step2 . for each text value l of property pn , find instance i* that maximize : loss l ( )
=
∑ ∑ p l p { | m a m i l ( , a
( log(P( r nm l l ( , a
) ) )
− log(1 P(
− r nm l l ( , a
)) ) )
)} then attach l to i* , ie , set l as the value of property pn of i* , and detach l from the original instance . Step3 . compute Loss(k ) . If Loss(k ) Loss(k 1 ) < ε , then stop , otherwise repeat step2 . 2 ) , where nl is the number of property The complex of step2 is O(nl values . A property value l may be reattached to instances more than one time , because the attachment changing of other property values may affect l . 4 . Conclusion In the problem of semantic this paper , we relationship extraction from semi structured documents . We give a definition of relationship extraction problem . We proposed an approach for the problem by using logistic regression . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Handschuh , S . Staab , and F . Ciravegna . S CREAM investigated
Semi automatic CREAtion of Metadata . In Proceedings of EKAW 2002 .
[ 2 ] P . Borislav , K . Atanas , K . Angel , M . Dimitar , O . Damyan , G .
Miroslav : KIM Semantic Annotation Platform . International Semantic Web Conference 2003 : 834 849 .
[ 3 ] C . Mark , D . Dan , F . Dayne , M . Andrew , M . Tom , N . Kamal and S . Seán . Learning to Construct Knowledge Bases from the World Wide Web , Artificial Intelligence , 118(1 2 ) : 691132000
[ 4 ] J . Tang , JZ . Li , HJ . Lu , BY . Liang , XT . Huang , KH . Wang . iASA : Learning to Annotate the Semantic Web . Journal on Data Semantics ( 4 ) : 110 145.2005
[ 5 ] DH Freeman . Applied Categorial Data Analysis . Dekker ,
New York , 1987
