BuzzRank . . . and the Trend is Your Friend
Klaus Berberich
Max Planck Institut f¨ur Informatik
Saarbr¨ucken , Germany kberberi@mpi infmpgde
Michalis Vazirgiannis
Athens University of Economics and Business
Athens , Greece mvazirg@aueb.gr
ABSTRACT Ranking methods like PageRank assess the importance of Web pages based on the current state of the rapidly evolving Web graph . The dynamics of the resulting importance scores , however , have not been considered yet , although they provide the key to an understanding of the Zeitgeist on the Web . This paper proposes the BuzzRank method that quantifies trends in time series of importance scores and is based on a relevant growth model of importance scores . We experimentally demonstrate the usefulness of BuzzRank on a bibliographic dataset .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms : Algorithms , Measurement
Keywords : Web graph , Web dynamics , PageRank 1 . MOTIVATION
Link based ranking methods like PageRank [ 7 ] play a crucial role in today ’s search engines . In this context , such methods indicate the importance of individual Web pages based on the current state of the Web graph . This current state contains all pages and links that were added but not yet removed and is thus the result of the Web ’s entire evolution . However , methods like PageRank do not properly reflect the evolutionary trajectory of the Web ( ie , links and pages recently removed or added ) , which is substantial as reported in [ 2 , 5 , 6 ] . As a consequence , PageRank and the like are not appropriate to serve information needs on timelines and trends as the following example demonstrates . We use a bibliographic network derived from the Digital Bibliography & Library Project ( http://dblpuni trierde ) as a showcase here , since obtaining an adequate Web dataset would involve frequent crawling of a significant fraction of the Web . Let us , on the one hand , consider an information need for seminal publications in database research . In our bibliographic network , PageRank identifies E . F . Codd ’s A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks as the most important publication , which is reasonable given this information need . On the other hand , the information need could be for publications in databases that are not yet very important but currently gain a lot of importance ; a scenario for which PageRank fails as the example demonstrates . Figure 1 plots PageRank scores of the aforementioned publication and Agrawal et al . ’s Mining Association
Max Planck Institut f¨ur Informatik
Srikanta Bedathur Saarbr¨ucken , Germany bedathur@mpi infmpgde
Max Planck Institut f¨ur Informatik
Gerhard Weikum Saarbr¨ucken , Germany weikum@mpi infmpgde
Figure 1 : Time series of PageRank scores
Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases for the years 1990 through 1999 . Although , for any of the depicted times Codd ’s paper is ahead in terms of importance by an order of magnitude at least , its importance score is close to stagnation . In contrast , the other paper improves its importance score in the considered period by a factor of more than ten . If the second information need arises at any point between 1993 and 1999 , Agrawal et al . ’s paper could be identified as a better result by means of the trend contained in its time series of PageRank scores .
The BuzzRank method proposed in this work builds on this idea . It analyzes time series of importance scores and quantifies the contained trends based on a growth model of importance scores . Thus , for instance , in a bibliographic network , the method identifies those publications that have significantly increased their importance in a specific time interval , which –more colloquially– are the publications that caused significant buzz in that period . Therefore , BuzzRank ’s objectives differ from earlier related work [ 1 , 3 , 8 ] that sought to improve link based importance ranking by means of temporal features . However , BuzzRank is complementary rather than a replacement to PageRank , and thus seeks to serve information needs as the one above . 2 . BUZZRANK
BuzzRank exploits the fact that importance scores coevolve with the Web graph and considers the following time series of importance scores for individual pages .
Let Gt(Vt , Et ) denote the graph snapshot at time t consisting of the set of nodes Vt and the set of edges Et . The vector of PageRank scores computed on the graph Gt is referred to as rt . Since PageRank scores are not comparable across graphs from different points in time ( with different graph sizes ) , a new kind of normalization problem arises that we solve as follows . The vector rt is normalized dividing by
X d∈Dt
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . rlow,t =
1
|Vt| ( + ( 1 − ) rt(d ) )
1990199119921993199419951996199719981999100101102103TimeLog(PageRank)A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data BanksMining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases with the damping factor and Dt as the set of dangling nodes ( ie , nodes without outgoing edges ) at time t . The value rlow,t is the lower bound for the PageRank score assigned to a node without incoming edges .
For an individual node v we consider the time series of importance scores r(v , t ) =
 rt(v)/rlow,t v ∈ Vt otherwise
: :
.
1
Thus , if a node is not present at time t , the time series assumes 1 , ie , treats the node as if it was present but had no incoming edges . The time series shown in Figure 1 were obtained using this definition . The BuzzRank method quantifies trends in the time series for observations in a time interval [ tbegin , tend ] , which is an input parameter to the method . For the time series , we assume that observations are available for a series of timestamps ht0 , . . . , tni ⊂ [ tbegin , tend ] . In a Web search engine , as an example , these could be the times when PageRank scores were updated .
The growth of PageRank scores over time has been modeled by Cho et al . [ 4 ] using the logistic growth model ( aka . Verhulst growth model ) – a specific case of the following generic growth model :
R t
ˆr(v , t ) = e
0 αv ( t)dt
In this model the parameter αv(t ) gives the growth rate of the node ’s PageRank score at time t .
We assume for the growth rate αv(t ) that it is timeinvariant as αv within [ tbegin , tend ] . Later this assumption is empirically substantiated . Using the time invariant growth rate we obtain the following exponential growth model for times in the considered time interval tbegin ≤ t ≤ tend . ˆr(v , t ) = r(v , tbegin ) e αv ( t−tbegin ) Since the series of observation times ht0 , . . . , tni does not necessarily include tbegin , the value r(v , tbegin ) may be unknown . Therefore , an additional parameter Av,tbegin is introduced to the model , so that we obtain the final model tbegin ≤ t ≤ tend .
ˆr(v , t ) = Av,tbegin e αv ( t−tbegin ) Using the method of least squares we fit the model to the
:
: observed time series values , ie , we minimize
X
( r(v , ti ) − ˆr(v , ti))2 . ti
This growth rate α∗
Applying a log transformation to both r(v , ti ) and ˆr(v , ti ) the problem is reduced to fitting a straight line . The optimal parameter value A∗ v,tbegin , on the one hand , estimates the node ’s PageRank score at time tbegin and is not considered further . The optimal parameter value α∗ v , on the other hand , estimates the growth rate of the node ’s PageRank score in the considered time interval . v quantifies the trend in the time series of the node ’s importance scores and thus , as we argued in the introduction , is a good indicator for the buzz caused by the node in the considered time interval . BuzzRank provides its final ranking assigning every node v its estimated growth rate α∗ 3 . EXPERIMENTS v as a score .
Since no adequate Web dataset is available ( ie , time series of periodically repeated Web crawls ) , we use the free DBLP bibliographic dataset for our preliminary experiments . We only consider the period from 1989 through 1999 as this period has the most densely recorded citations in DBLP . In the graph that we derive from DBLP nodes represent publications and edges represent citations .
As input to BuzzRank we computed PageRank vectors for the graphs at times corresponding to the begins of the years 1989 through 1999 yielding a total of eleven observations per time series . The damping factor for the PageRank computations was set to = 015
In the first of our experiments , we empirically analyze our assumption that αv(t ) can be considered as time invariant . Note that if αv(t ) is nearly constant over a period of k successive observations , there must be a strong linear relationship observable between hti , . . . , ti+ki and the log transformed time series values hlog r(v , ti ) , . . . , log r(v , ti+k)i . Therefore , we computed correlation coefficients for varying k across all nodes . Since we are only interested in the strength of the linear relationship but not in its direction , we computed average absolute correlation coefficients for different values of k . For three successive observations ( ie , k = 2 ) this yields a value of 091 For four up to seven successive observations , slightly lower but consistent values about 0.85 are observed . Thus , there is a strong linear relationship and therefore assuming time invariance for αv(t ) is reasonable .
As a second experiment we computed rankings using BuzzRank for two year intervals ( ie , three successive observations ) . For most publications in DBLP only the year of publication is known , consequently granularities more finegrained than the year level are not meaningful . In Table 1 the publications top ranked by BuzzRank for the two year intervals are given .
Years
Title
[ ’89 , ’90 ] The Object Oriented Database System Manifesto [ ’90 , ’91 ] CYC : Toward Programs With Common Sense [ ’91 , ’92 ] ARIES : A Transaction Recovery Method Supporting Fine Granularity Locking and Partial Rollbacks Using Write Ahead Logging Simplifying Decision Trees
[ ’92 , ’93 ] [ ’93 , ’94 ] World Wide Web : The Information Universe [ ’94 , ’95 ] The Power of Languages for the Manipulation of
Complex Values
[ ’95 , ’96 ] Towards Heterogeneous Multimedia Information Sys tems : The Garlic Approach Implementing Data Cubes Efficiently
[ ’96 , ’97 ] [ ’97 , ’98 ] Modeling Multidimensional Databases [ ’98 , ’99 ] XML QL : A Query Language for XML
Table 1 : Publications top ranked by BuzzRank
The results indicate that BuzzRank indeed brings publications related to hot topics in the respective period to the top . For the intervals [ 1993 , 1994 ] and [ 1998 , 1999 ] , for instance , publications related to the Web and XML are ranked at the top respectively . In marked contrast , the use of PageRank resulted in the publication by E . F . Codd mentioned in the Motivation to be the top ranked item in each time interval .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Amitay , D . Carmel , et al . Trend Detection Through
Temporal Link Analysis . JASIST , 55(14):1270–1281 , 2004 . [ 2 ] Z . Bar Yossef , A . Z . Broder , et al . Sic Transit Gloria Telae : Towards an Understanding of the Web ’s Decay . WWW ’04 . [ 3 ] K . Berberich , M . Vazirgiannis , et al . Time aware Authority
Ranking . Internet Mathematics , 2006 .
[ 4 ] J . Cho , S . Roy , et al . Page Quality : in Search of an
Unbiased Web Ranking . SIGMOD ’05 .
[ 5 ] D . Fetterly , M . Manasse , et al . A large scale study of the evolution of web pages . Software : Practice and Experience , 34(2):213–237 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] A . Ntoulas , J . Cho , et al . What ’s New on the Web ? : The Evolution of the Web from a Search Engine Perspective . WWW ’04 .
[ 7 ] L . Page , S . Brin , et al . The PageRank Citation Ranking :
Bringing Order to the Web . Stanford Tech . rep . , 1998 . [ 8 ] P . S . Yu , X . Li , et al . On the Temporal Dimension of
Search . WWW ’04 .
