Determining User Interests About Museum Collections
∗
Lloyd Rutledge Telematica Instituut
PO Box 589
Enschede , The Netherlands LloydRutledge@cwinl
†
Lora Aroyo
Technische Universiteit
Eindhoven PO Box 513
Natalia Stash
Technische Universiteit
Eindhoven PO Box 513
Eindhoven , The Netherlands
Eindhoven , The Netherlands
LMAroyo@tuenl
NVStash@tuenl
ABSTRACT Currently , there is an increasing effort to provide various personalized services on museum web sites . This paper presents an approach for determining user interests in a museum collection with the help of an interactive dialog . It uses a semantically annotated collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam to elicit specific user ’s interests in artists , periods , genres and themes and uses these values to recommend relevant artefacts and related concepts from the museum collection . In the presented prototype , we show how constructing a user profile and applying recommender strategies in this way enable dynamical generation personalized museum tours for different users .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Information filtering ; I24 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Knowledge Representation Formalisms and Methods—Semantic networks
General Terms Design , Documentation , Human Factors , Standardization
Keywords Recommender systems , User profiling , Semantic browsing , Museum collections , Personalization
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Personalization enables changing the museum mass communication paradigm into a user centered interactive information exchange , where the “ museum monologue turns into a dialogue ” , and personalization is “ a new communication strategy based on a continuous process of collaboration , learning and adaptation between the museum and its visitors ” [ 2 ] . In 1997 , Picard outlined the need for personalization of online museum collections [ 3 ] . Now there are various examples of museum websites attempting to meet the needs of individual users .
∗Lloyd Rutledge is also affiliated with CWI , Amsterdam †Lora Aroyo is also affiliated with CWI , Amsterdam
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 .
Figure 1 : CHIP demonstrator display
Personalization improves museum website usability by supporting user navigation and assisting them in finding appropriate and interesting information . On the other hand , it also considers personal characteristics , such as age , education , previous knowledge , to support better comprehension of the collection . Studies show that understanding is stimulated when the system uses concepts familiar to the users ( considering their interests and knowledge level ) [ 2 ] . Thus , museums automatically adapt the content presentation using user data stored in a user profile . Users can explicitly fill in online forms to provide such data . Additionally , the system can monitor their activities to infer and record their preferences . We present an interactive approach for collecting user data and building user profiles for online museum collections .
The CHIP demonstrator1 , shown in Figure 1 , uses content based filtering techniques to track user behavior and preferences when they rate museum artefacts . Our demo then recommends both artefacts and related concepts that reflect the latest state of the user profile . The user can rate each item as either “ interesting ” or “ not interesting ” . Based on those ratings , the system recommends related artefacts . The system also lets users rate their interest in concepts related to each artefact , enriching further the system ’s user profiles .
2 . MUSEUM COLLECTIONS
While able to make quick impressions on novices , museum
1available at http://wwwchip projectorg/demo/ artefacts occur in the context of a rich and complex knowledge structure developed by experts such as art theoreticians and art historians . Although requiring such knowledge can hinder novice users , this knowledge can help the recommendation process . It does so by providing a structured vocabulary for describing artefacts , thus defining properties for artefacts that content based recommendation can use . Furthermore , because a large community developed these concepts to describe what they find interesting and important about artefacts , these properties are likely to correspond often to user interests . For example , when a user rates many paintings favorably that experts describe as “ Impressionist ” , the system can then recommend web pages about Impressionism , even though the user had no previous knowledge of it .
The expert annotations of artefacts that the CHIP demonstrator processes originate from the ARIA database of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam ( “ Explore the Collection ” 2 ) . We use the RDF translation of this database that we have done in earlier work [ 4 ] . It annotates 740 artefacts , their artists , locations , other related concepts and related images .
We use Semantic Web queries and inferencing ( via the Jena reasoner ) to identify the related artefacts based on the domain model of ARIA . For example , we identify artefacts that relate to a common theme , period or location . We can deduce a selection of artefacts by a specific artist ( eg all paintings by Rembrandt van de Rijn ) or artefacts that represent a specific objects ( eg ‘women’ ) or are of a specific type ( eg ‘male portraits’ , ‘oil on canvas’ , etc )
3 . USER PROFILE
In the user profile we store property values ( eg artist names , period/location of the artifacts , topics associated with them ) for each artefact presented in the rating dialog ( eg property “ artist ” — property value “ Rembrandt ” ) . We also store the user ’s rating for each of those entries .
The rating “ 1 ” for an artefact or concept indicates a positive interest , “ 0 ” indicates no opinion and “ 1 ” negative interest . The system calculates predicted interests and lets the user confirm or change them , resulting in the system storing these new ratings . When a highly rated resource has a property that falls within a broader concept , the system adds that broader concept to the resource ’s clustering property set . We applied similar inheritance to clustering search results in earlier work [ 4 ] .
4 . PERSONALIZED INTERACTION
The CHIP prototype recommends concepts related to the artefacts that the user rated positively . For each concept recommendation , the user can see why it was recommended . The user can see which artefacts related to this concept were rated positively . Here users can also directly alter recommendations by indicating that , although the artefacts were rated high , they are still not interested in that specific theme . For each artefact presented by the system , the user can see the concepts ( eg themes , periods and locations ) that are related to it , and can indicate in which concepts are interesting . We implement this in a dialog with the user with which the system dynamically builds the user profile and uses it to generate further recommendations dynamically for the user to rate . This lets the user immediately 2http://wwwrijksmuseumnl/collectie/ see the result of the latest ratings in the user profile , thus providing fast validation of the profile and recommendation strategy .
5 .
IMPLEMENTATION
The CHIP demonstrator has Java servlets serve HTML pages . The domain model and user models are represented in RDF and are stored on the server . The Jena API3 is used to process the RDF data . The utterances in the dialog are executed as SPARQL4 queries to the RDF data model .
6 . CONCLUSION
The CHIP prototype demonstrates elicitation of user interests from rating the semantically enriched Rijskmuseum collection items . It offers an interactive way for users to indicate their preferences for selected artefacts as well as for specific concepts from their annotations . This information is then stored in a simple user profile , which is further used to recommend related concepts and artefacts from the collection . We intend to combine the current content based filtering technique with a rule based filtering , which would allow us to specify rules based on static and dynamic user profiles [ 1 ] and recognize situations and patterns in users navigation and interests , associations and correlations among sets of items , clustering and classification of concepts and artefacts . The user interaction and the concept based recommendation strategy have been evaluated with experts from the Rijksmuseum . Further work involves user studies with various visitor user groups on the Rijksmuseum website .
Acknowledgments This work is done in collaboration with the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam within the CHIP project5 , funded by the Dutch Organization for Scientific Research ( NWO ) . We would like to thank Rogier Brussee , Mark van Assem , Antoine Isaac , Jacco van Ossenbruggen and Mark van Setten for their advice on repository design and recommendation systems . The Rijksmuseum gave permission for the use of its images .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . C . B . Mobascher and J . Srivastava . Automatic personalization based on web usage mining . Commun . ACM , 43(8):142–151 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] J . Bowen and S . Filippini Fantoni . Personalization and the web from a museum perspective . In Museums on the Web 2004 , 2004 .
[ 3 ] R . W . Picard . Affective Computing . MIT Press ,
Cambridge , MA , 1997 .
[ 4 ] L . Rutledge , M . Alberink , R . Brussee , S . Pokraev ,
W . van Dieten , and M . Veenstra . Finding the Story — Broader Applicability of Semantics and Discourse for Hypermedia Generation . In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia , pages 67–76 , Nottingham , UK , August 23 27 , 2003 . ACM Press .
3http://jenasourceforgenet/ 4http://wwww3org/TR/rdf sparql query/ 5http://wwwchip projectorg/
