Generating Summaries for Large Collections of Geo
Referenced Photographs
Alexander Jaffe1 , Mor Naaman1 , Tamir Tassa2 , Marc Davis1,3
1Yahoo! Research Berkeley
2Department of Mathematics and
3School of Information
1950 University Ave . , Suite 200
Berkeley , CA 94704 1024
Computer Science
The Open University of Israel
University of California , Berkeley Berkeley , CA 94720 4600
USA
Ra’anana , Israel ajaffe@yahoo inc.com , mor@yahoo inc.com , tamir_tassa@yahoo.com , marcd@yahoo inc.com
USA
ABSTRACT We describe a framework for automatically selecting a summary set of photographs from a large collection of geo referenced photos . The summary algorithm is based on spatial patterns in photo sets , but can be expanded to support social , temporal , as well as textual topical factors of the photo set . The summary set can be biased by the user , the content of the user ’s query , and the context in which the query is made . An initial evaluation on a set of geo referenced photos shows that our algorithm performs well , producing results that are highly rated by users . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Storage and Retrieval – Information Search and Retrieval
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Human Factors
Keywords Geo referenced photographs , photo collections , semantic zoom , photo browsing , collection summary , geo referenced information
1 . INTRODUCTION With the popularization of digital photography , people are now capturing and storing far more photographs than ever before . These large collections of photographs are inherently difficult to navigate , due to their size and the inability of computers to understand the content . Yet , viewing and interacting with such collections has a broad social and practical importance . Today , we are moving towards Susan Sontag ’s 1977 vision [ 1 ] of a world where “ everything exists to end up in a photograph ” . As a result , users are experiencing a content overload , in which the prospect of viewing some photo collections becomes genuinely infeasible . Some steps forward have been made through geo referencing of digital photographs [ 2,3 ] . An increasing number of photographs on the web are associated with the exact coordinates at which they were taken . Such geo referenced photos can be categorized geographically or displayed on a digital map , providing a rich spatial context in which to view subsets of a collection . Yet even then , the viewable space inevitably becomes obscured after the data set has surpassed a certain size , with overlapping photographs making viewing impossible .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 .
Our goal is thus to facilitate a system which can automatically select representative and relevant photographs from a particular spatial region . This system will enable users to navigate through large scale geo referenced photo collections using map visualizations ( and other spatial browsers ) in a manner that improves rather than degrades with the addition of more photos .
Figure 1 . Most representative photos of San Francisco , as chosen by our system . One photo is enlarged for illustration . Selecting the most representative photos from a given region is a difficult task for several reasons . For instance : • Image analysis alone is historically poor at capturing the semantic concepts in an image , making purely visual relevance insufficient for summarization .
• In multi user sets , the biases of one user ’s data may weigh the data towards generally insignificant subjects .
We have designed and implemented a simple algorithm that attempts to satisfy the goals stated above . We use metadatafacilitated heuristics that capitalize on patterns in photography behavior . Foremost among these heuristics is the premise that photographs taken at a location imply the presence of something interesting . Previous work has suggested that frequencies of photography correspond to levels of interest over time [ 4 ] . However , our algorithm analyzes geographical rather than temporal frequency , and looks at a multitude of spatial temporalsocial as well as textual topical patterns . Furthermore , the algorithm can be tuned to bias the results using various factors , such as the social network proximity of the photographers . Our method can be used in a number of applications . A key example is that of semantic zoom . This is an interface for browsing photos from a global geo referenced collection on a map . At any zoom level , panned to any region , the user sees a subset of photos that best represent that region . For example , Figure 1 shows a map of San Francisco , in which a limited set of eight photos selected by our system are marked on the map . local
2 . OUR METHOD We first describe the insight into how we approach the problem of selecting summary photos from a region . We then describe an algorithm that implements these principles . 2.1 Basic Framework To choose the most representative photos from a region we follow a few simple heuristics that try to model and capture human attention , as reflected in the set of photos taken in that region . Among these heuristics are the notions that : • More photographs are taken at locations that provide views of some interesting object or landmark .
• A location is more relevant if the photos around it were taken by a large number of photographers .
• If available , textual tags can reflect the presence of interesting landmarks in a location , for example via a tag that appears frequently in that location , but rarely elsewhere .
In addition to following these heuristics , a desired solution could also follow these guidelines : • In a summary , it is preferable to represent a broad range of subjects than to thoroughly display a few .
• Personal or query bias should be easily introduced to modify the algorithm ’s results .
Indeed , our system is flexible enough to allow users to specify a personal bias , or preference , towards any of the features above or to utilize implicit bias in the query context and history . We allow for biasing by any quantifiable feature of the photographs , such as the social proximity of the photographer to the user , preference for weekend photos or tourist photos , or the externally determined quality of the image . 2.2 Algorithm We formalize our problem as that of producing a ranking on the collection in question . In other words , we summarize a set of photos by ordering the set and selecting the top ranked photos . Producing an ordering is a two step process . 1 . We apply a modified version of the Hungarian Clustering Method [ 4 ] to our collection of photographs . The clustering assigns every photo to one of several clusters , based solely on the geographic locations of the photos . The clustering algorithm generates a hierarchical cluster structure ; other hierarchical clustering methods could potentially work here as well . 2 . We recursively rank the photos of a cluster based on orderings of its subclusters . At the leaf cluster level , photos are assigned a basic relevance score that could reflect any parameterized bias . For clusters in the higher level of the hierarchy , the scores incorporate several factors , including the summed weights of their subclusters , inter cluster variance among tags and users , and cluster density . An ordering of photos in a cluster is generated by interleaving photos from its subclusters . We first select a small number of photographs from each of the subclusters . We then go into depth , selecting photos in proportion to the subclusters’ scores . Though the Hungarian Clustering Method runs in worst case O(n3 ) time , the resultant hierarchy can be cached , allowing new queries to be run in O(n log n ) time . tags , and repetition of
2.3 Initial Evaluation The goal of our evaluation was to determine whether our system generates a satisfactory selection of photos from a given spatial region . Our dataset consisted of approximately 1100 photos from Flickr [ 5 ] , taken in San Francisco and associated with exact location coordinates . This number appears to be sufficient for effectively ranking photos at the city scale . We focus on the user experience of the results , and compare them to results achieved by three baseline systems : a ) recency , b ) random selection and c ) Flickr ‘interestingness’ . Recency simply selects the most recent photographs from a region . Flickr interestingness is the website ’s measure of the attention given by other users to photographs . We used two different random selections for a total of five conditions , including our system . The implementation of our algorithm used for the evaluation calculates cluster weights based on three criteria : number of photos , local diversity of photographers . We performed an inter subject evaluation of the results from the different methods . We presented 15 users each having some familiarity with San Francisco with the top nine photographs from each of the five summarizations . Users were asked to rate each result on a 1—9 Leikert scale for a number of different criteria : relevance to the city , attractiveness of the photos , usefulness for showing the city to a friend , and the extent to which the entire city is represented . 2.4 Results For lack of space , we supply a brief overview of the results here . Our method ’s summary received better scores than all others , on each of the criteria , in a statistically significant manner . The only exception is ‘attractiveness’ , for which the ‘interestingness’ condition did equally well . Most importantly , for the ‘relevance’ criterion , the mean score for our algorithm was 679 The closest condition was ‘interestingness’ , with 5.53 , ( n=15 , p<05 ) The score for the two random conditions and recency were 4.8 , 5.27 , and 2.93 respectively . 3 . CONCLUSIONS The phenomenal growth of personal and shared digital photo collections presents in building navigation and summarization applications . By utilizing our hierarchical clustering algorithm , which can be parameterized by user and contextual bias , we enable users to view the most relevant samples from large scale photo collections , with little to no effort . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Susan Sontag . On Photography . Picador , 1977 . [ 2 ] Toyama , K . , Logan , R . , and Roseway , A Geographic considerable challenges location tags on digital images . In Proc . , ACM MM 2003 .
[ 3 ] Naaman , M . , Song , YJ , Paepcke , A . , and Garcia Molina , H .
Automatic Organization for Digital Photographs with Geographic Coordinates . In Proc . , JCDL 2004 .
[ 4 ] Nair , R . , Reid , N . , and Davis , M . Photo LOI : Browsing Multi User Photo Collections . In Proc . , ACM MM 2005 .
[ 5 ] Goldberger , J . and Tassa , T . The Hungarian Clustering
Method . Submitted for publication .
[ 6 ] Flickr . http://wwwflickrcom
