An Integrated Method for Social Network Extraction
Masahiro Hamasaki
Yutaka Matsuo
Keisuke Ishida
National Institute of Advanced
National Institute of Advanced
National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and
Technology ( AIST )
2 41 6 Aomi , Tokyo , Japan hamasaki@niaistgojp
Industrial Science and
Technology ( AIST )
2 41 6 Aomi , Tokyo , Japan ymatsuo@aistgojp
Tom Hope
Takuichi Nishimura
National Institute of Advanced
National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and
Technology ( AIST )
2 41 6 Aomi , Tokyo , Japan ksk ishida@aistgojp
Hideaki Takeda National Institute of
Informatics ( NII )
2 1 2 Hitotsubashi ,
Chiyoda ku , Tokyo , Japan
Industrial Science and
Technology ( AIST )
2 41 6 Aomi , Tokyo , Japan tom hope@aistgojp
Industrial Science and
Technology ( AIST )
2 41 6 Aomi , Tokyo , Japan taku@niaistgojp takeda@niiacjp
ABSTRACT A social network can become bases for information infrastructure in the future . It is important to extract social networks that are not biased . Providing a simple means for users to register their social relation is also important . We propose a method that combines various approaches to extract social networks . Especially , three kinds of networks are extracted ; user registered Know link network , Web mined Web link network , and face to face Touch link network . In this paper , the combination of social network extraction for communities is described , and the analysis on the extracted social networks is shown .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous ; D.2 [ Software ] : Software Engineering
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords social network , Web mining , user interaction
1 .
INTRODUCTION
This paper presents an integrated method for social network extraction . Social networks play important roles in our daily lives . Our lives are enormously influenced by social networks without our knowledge of the implications , and there are many applications using social networks [ 6 ] . In the context of the Semantic Web , social networks are crucial to realize a web of trust , which enables the estimation of information credibility and trustworthiness [ 2 ] . Ontology construction is also related to a social network [ 4 ] . Also in
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . studies on computer mediated communication , social networks have been examined with keen interest .
Social networking services ( SNSs ) have become popular . Friendster and Orkut are among the earliest and most successful SNSs . An interesting point of SNSs is that a user can see not only others’ personal attributes ( eg , name and affiliation , hobby ) but also social networks ( acquaintance lists ) . Acquaintance lists reveal information about users’ personalities . On the other hand , acquaintance lists are proof that acquaintances can track activity within the SNS . We can expect that the purview of acquaintances restrict deviant behavior within a community ( eg , assume a false name , abusive language ) . An SNS that manages and stores social networks can become a base of information infrastructure in the future . Social networks should reflect actual social networks in that community and should be unbiased if we use SNS as an information infrastructure of one community . There are several ways to obtain social networks : FOAF ( Friend of a Friend ) is a vocabulary to describe information on a person and the relation to others . Both SNS data and FOAF data is created by users themselves . On the other hand , automatic detection of relation is also possible from various sources of online information such as e mail archives , schedule data , and Web citation information [ 1 ] . There is another stream of work to obtain social networks ; observing persons’ behaviors in ubiquitous and wearable devices [ 5 ] .
Whichever method we will take for obtaining a social network , it suffers from some degree of flaws : For example , SNSs data and FOAF data , which is based on self report survey , suffers from data bias and sparsity . Automatically obtained network , eg , Web mined social network , brings us a good view of prominent persons , but does not work well for novices , students , and other ” normal ” people . Social networks observed using wearable devices is constrained by device specific characteristics ; it may have detection errors , limitation of detection scopes , and the bias of usage by users .
This paper describes our attempt to combine three ways to extract social networks and analyzes obtained social networks .
2 .
INTEGRATION OF SOCIAL NETWORK EXTRACTION
Figure 1 shows our model to extract and combine social networks . We take three approaches : ( 1 ) The first is based on web mining techniques . It can create initial networks automatically from available web information . ( 2 ) The second is based on real world user interaction ( eg face to face communication ) in communities . It extracts social network with capturing user interactions . ( 3 ) The last is based on user interaction on the Web system , similarly as in SNSs . Users can describe own social network by themselves .
579 authors ( including co authors ) . About 500 participants joined that conference .
One of the interesting findings through our analysis is : Figure 3 shows the number of Web hit ( by putting a person ’s name to a search engine ) versus the number of three kinds of links . The more authoritative people ( with lots of hit count ) tend to have more number of Web links . While the most authoritative people do not use Knows links the most ; active middle authoritative users use the most . They may know well about the community , and feel interesting . Touch links are used by the less authoritative users more ; especially , the persons with the same level of authoritativeness are likely to have meets link . It is natural because persons who have fewer acquaintances want more acquaintances , and people are likely to meets people with the same social level .
Figure 1 : Illustration of the integrated method for social network extraction .
’Know Link’ means users who have undirected Know link and
’Add Know Link’ means users who added Know link .
Figure 3 : Ratio of Link Users
We implement this model for community support system which targets an academic conference . We apply Web mining techniques using a search engine [ 3 ] to extract Web links ( 1 ) . We settle information kiosks at the conference site , and deliver name cards ( IC cards ) for participants . When users put their IC cards at an information kiosk , we regard them as connected by Touch links ( 2 ) . Users can build own acquaintance lists . We regard the registered acquaintances as connected by Know links ( 3 ) .
Figure 2 is a screenshot of our system . When two users put name cards on an information kiosk , they can see a social network including the two .
Figure 2 : Social network among two persons .
3 . FIELD TEST
We operated our system at a three day Japanese domestic conference . That conference had 297 presentations and
4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we proposed an integrated method to extract social networks and implemented it to the conference support system . It can realize extraction of social networks that are not biased and provide a simple means to register social networks for users . It is important to promote communication and discussion among community members . Future works include improvement of network integration and advanced applications .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research has been supported by NEDO ( New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization ) as the project ID of 04A11502a .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . A . Adamic and E . Adar . Friends and neighbors on the web . Social Networks , 25(3):211–230 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] J . Golbeck and J . Hendler . Inferring trust relationships in web based social networks . ACM Transactions on Internet Technology , 2005 .
[ 3 ] Y . Matsuo , H . Tomobe , K . Hasida , and M . Ishizuka .
Finding social network for trust calculation . In Proccedings of 16th European Conference on Artificial Intelligence ( ECAI2004 ) , pages 510–514 , 2004 .
[ 4 ] P . Mika . Ontologies are us : A unified model of social networks and semantics . In Proceedings of ISWC2005 , 2005 .
[ 5 ] A . Pentland . Socially aware computation and communication . IEEE Computer , 2005 .
[ 6 ] S . Staab , P . Dmingos , T . Finin , P . Mika , A . Joshi ,
J . Golbeck , A . Nowak , L . Ding , and R . R . Vallecher . Social network applied . IEEE Intelligent systems , pages 80–93 , 2005 .
