Why is Connectivity in Developing Regions Expensive : Policy
Challenges more than Technical Limitations ?
Rahul Tongia
Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU ) School of Computer Science ( ISRI )
Pittsburgh , PA 15213 USA
+1 412 268 5619 tongia@cmu.edu
ABSTRACT I present analysis examining some of the causes of poor connectivity technoeconomic analysis and design , I show that technical limitations per se are not the bottleneck for widespread connectivity ; rather , design , policy , and regulatory challenges dominate . in developing countries . Based on a
Categories and Subject Descriptors C21 [ Computer Communication Networks ] : Network Architecture and Design – network communications , network topology , wireless communication .
General Terms Management , Design , Economics .
Keywords Digital Divide , Broadband , Internet and Telecom Access , Wireless , Optical Fibers , Techno economics , Open Access , Africa
1 . INTRODUCTION – DIGITAL DIVIDE Mobile phones are often thought of as the bridge across the digital divide . However , they cannot easily provide broadband connectivity , especially not at low cost ( claims of 3G wireless notwithstanding ) .
What the digital divide is depends on whom you ask . Is it the ability to make a phone call ? Get on the Internet ? Through personal means ( eg , in home ) or in a shared ( kiosk ) mode , and if the latter , how close by ? Unfortunately , almost all studies on the digital divide suffer from methodological flaws , especially related to granularity . Eg , [ 1 ] finds correlations between incomes and penetration , or [ 2 ] between competition and penetration . While indicative in terms of overall trends , specifics should not be drawn from these because national data , suspect or outdated in many cases , never apply across wide population segments . Average incomes are based heavily on a small population subset , often in the capital . Similarly , while there may be 2 or 3 mobile providers , they may not all have footprints in the same areas , especially rural areas . A bottom up analysis of components of costs , presented here , can show what factors matter when considering costs .
2 . ACCESS TECHNOLOGIES 2.1 Developing Region Issues Digital divide statistics abound , and show most ICT usage is in developed countries . Even in more advanced developing countries , such as China , the growth has been asymmetric . Focusing on Africa , we find teledensity as low as 5.3 per 100 population in 2002 ( fixed plus mobile ) , growing to over 11 by
Copyright is held by IW3C2 . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , UK .
2005 end , mainly from mobiles . Investments are large , estimated around $30 billion between 1995 2002 [ 2].1 But , if mobiles are successful , what about the Internet ?
Studies have shown that the majority ( ~70 % ) of ICT differentials can be shown by income levels , with additional variation explained by urbanization , regulatory regime , literacy , and age [ 2 ] . Thus , costs of access to the Internet matter . The ITU ” s Digital Access Index is one composite metric that factors in affordability when comparing ICT ( in addition to quality , infrastructure , and knowledge ) . However , it only studies basic ( 20 hours ) dial up , and uses average numbers across nations .
2.2 Broadband techno economic framework Tongia [ 3 ] presents a generalized model for analyzing broadband connectivity , which includes stochastic or parametric elements for many of the variables . The four major components of the monthly costs are , [ with subcomponents/factors that matter in brackets ] :
1 ) Capital expenditure ( amortized into monthly payments ) [ turnover or churn rate , interest rate , financing period ( which is linked to churn and market competitiveness ) ]
2 ) Operating
Expenses
[ customer relations , billing , maintenance ]
3 ) Uplinking costs [ transit or backbone fees , rated or advertised speeds , oversubscription ratio , applications allowed ( eg , peer to peer , voice , etc . ) and ( where does contention and sharing occur) ? ] topology
4 ) One time costs [ installation , activation , customer premises equipment ( if bundled with service , else is a capital or subscriber cost ) , marketing , rights of way charges or spectrum , as applicable ] .
Importantly , this model focuses only on costs , and not price . Retail prices often have very little to do with costs , for various market , competitive , and social reasons .
Under the generalized framework as above , how does one reduce the digital divide ? The first step is determining which services ( and thus , technologies ) apply . Availability of existing infrastructure is vital to low costs . Cable modems and DSL utilize copper that was laid to carry other , revenue bearing services . The success of mobiles across Africa ( landlines are only ~3 per 100 people , mainly in urban areas [ 4] ) . limits migration paths for broadband .
1 Only a fraction of investments went into new infrastructure ; the through into buying existing remainder went privatization , or licensing/regulatory fees . stakes
Table 1 : Indicative Broadband access technologies and costs for consumers ( residential ) ( US$ )
Typical speeds ( mbps )
[ Down/up ]
First hop
Capital ends
Customer premises equipment
Operating costs per subscriber/
Uplinking costs
/subscriber
Onetime costs
Typical prices seen in developed countries
Typical prices
Tech .
Maturity
( developin g regions ) or deploymen t
DSL
0.64 100 both
Central
Office ( CO )
Cable
.1 10/lower
Head end
Broadband over Powerlines
Fiber to the Home
1 4/lower
Distribution Transformer
100/100 ; lower if
Access cabinet or shared ( PON )
CO
~1000 ( western figure )
Satellite
0.64 45/lower
Satellite
~500 1000
300 500
3G cellular
0.384 2/lower Base Station
~300+
~200 expenditure/ subscriber excluding
CPE
40
~100
~300
( CPE ) Costs
10
10
20 month
/month
Operating costs are assumed to be
Uplinking costs are strongly a function of comparable location across technologies , differentiate d more by business model and location than technology . Costs range from 1 6 typically . and of rated consumer speed , instead of technology .
Ranges from 2 10 typically , but higher in some locations .
Low
20 50
5 100
High
( assumin g existing copper )
( varies with speeds )
Medium
30 60
High
30 40
5 100
NA
High
Low
Highest
30 70
NA
Low
High
High medium
70 90
60+
200+
40+
High
Low
( limited throughput )
Fixed wireless
WiFi ( mesh )
( 802.11b example )
1 11 ( raw , lower in practice )
Neighboring
~100 node
10
Low
20+
WiFi
( access
1 11
Access point
~100 ( no
10
Low
20+ point ) tower )
WiMax/802.16
.5 10
Base station
100 200
250
Medium
30+
? ?
? ?
? ?
Medium
High
Low
We see capital expenses are only a fraction of total monthly costs , especially for reasonable costs of capital ( 10 15 % interest rates ) . Tongia [ 3 ] goes through the above exercise in detail for a particular technology ( broadband over powerlines ) .
Given different design options and commercial choices providers can make , comparing technologies and providers is difficult at best , and meaningless in many cases . Once we determine the reasons for the varied ( and high ) costs , we can determine new designs and policies to reduce the costs of connectivity .
221 Policy and Add on Distortions Cost per user clearly depends on chosen technology , penetration level , user distribution , as well as factors outside the broadband domain , including availability of complementary infrastructure . A further distortion in access costs occurs when we consider how policies ( especially governmental ) lead to artificial increases in the cost of connectivity ( or other ICT ) . If one starts with the equipment ( hardware , software , and installation ) for an ideal network ( optimized for user conditions ) , there is an associated cost to end users ( which we can extrapolate from Table 1 ) . Any policy decisions on top , for whatever reason , create additional costs , distortions , or rents . Below are policies I identify that make connectivity more expensive for the end user ( not in any particular order ) : ISP licensing fees , Spectrum , Rights of Way charges , Import Duties , User Taxes and Surcharges , Uplinking and interconnection restrictions , Limits on applications and services , Limits on sharing connectivity , Lack of clarity / consistency on “ affiliate transactions ” , Low density of target users , Design without scalability or upgrading possibilities , Proprietary or
National only standards , High costs of regulatory compliance , Higher failure rates and/or maintenance , High costs of capital .
3 . CONCLUSION New technologies continue to evolve , and this will help push deployment of Internet access across the world . Not only will costs fall , but capabilities will continue to expand , especially in wireless technologies . Even then , the generalized techno economic model shows that equipment costs are only a fraction of the total costs , and new designs must be considered that integrate innovations in policy and business models . Our work shows that new designs of technology and of business models can to overcome policy distortions , such as through open access networks .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ]
B . Oyelaran Oyeyinka and K . Lal , "Internet diffusion in sub Saharan Africa : A cross country analysis," Telecommunications Policy , vol . 29 , ( 7 ) , pp . 507 527 , 2005 . C . Kenney , "Financing Information and Communication Infrastructure Needs in the Developing World : Public and Private Roles ( Draft)," World Bank , Washington , DC 2005 . R . Tongia , "Can broadband over powerline carrier ( PLC ) compete ? A techno economic analysis," Telecommunications Policy , vol . 28 , ( 7 8 ) , pp . 559 578 , 2004 . ITU , "African Telecommunication Indicators 2004," ITU , Geneva May 2004 2004 .
[ 2 ]
[ 3 ]
[ 4 ]
