Extracting News Related Queries from Web Query Log
Michael Maslov , Alexander Golovko , Ilya Segalovich , Pavel Braslavski
119991 Moscow , Russia
{maslov , algo , iseg , pb}@yandex team.ru
Yandex
Vavilova 40
ABSTRACT In this poster , we present a method for extracting queries related to real life events , or news related queries , from large web query logs . The method employs query frequencies and search over a collection of recent news . News related queries can be helpful for disambiguating user information needs , as well as for effective online news processing . The performed evaluation proves that the method yields good precision .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval .
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Verification .
Keywords Query Log Analysis , Web Search . for technique improving a powerful
1 . INTRODUCTION The query log of a web search engine is a rich source of valuable information about user preferences , search strategies , etc . There is a large body of publications on web query log analysis , which became retrieval effectiveness and end user interaction with a search engine . A number of scientific publications focused on temporal query log analysis have appeared recently . For example , study [ 1 ] discovers topical variations of queries throughout the course of the day . Chien and Immorlica [ 2 ] cluster semantically related queries based on similar temporal behavior of their popularities . In this poster we present a method for extracting queries related to recent , ongoing , or upcoming real life events reflected in the news , or news related queries . Our approach is complementary in a certain sense to the method described in [ 3 ] . Whereas Henzinger et al . extract queries from current TV broadcast transcripts , thus enabling ‘query free news search’ , we aim at extracting queries related to real life events from a general purpose web search engine log , using relative query frequencies and validating them against current news feeds . News related queries can be used for disambiguating user information needs ( eg prompting the user with a link to an online news service ) , as well as for highly effective online news processing , including news clustering , summarization , and ranking .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , UK . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 .
The poster briefly describes the method for extracting newsrelated queries service ( http://newsyandexru ) that uses the query log and infrastructure of the general purpose search engine Yandex ( wwwyandexru ) in Yandex News implemented
2 . EXTRACTION METHOD Query significance in a time interval as against to another interval is defined as a ratio of respective query frequencies : qS ,(
=∆∆ 1
2
)
, qF ,( qF ,(
∆ 1 ∆
2
) )
, where F(q , ∆ ) is the frequency of q in time interval ∆ . Momentary query novelty can be defined as query significance in the last hour as against to the preceding day :
MQN(q ) = S(q , ∆last_int , ∆prec_day ) .
To suppress some hourly irregularities ( like weather queries in the morning and porn queries in the night ) , we define hourly query novelty as query significance in the last hour compared to the same hour of the day averaged over the preceding week :
HQN(q ) = S(q , ∆last_int , ∆prec_week ) , where ∆prec_week is a union of time intervals corresponding to seven hours in the preceding seven days . Final query novelty is defined as the minimum of momentary and hourly query novelty :
QN(q)=min{MQN(q ) , HQN(q)} .
To detect novel queries , very rare queries are removed ; the rest is normalized ( this step includes stemming , capitalization , and removal of some characters , eg quotation marks ) . Queries with novelty score exceeding the pre defined threshold are considered to be novel . News related queries are a subclass of novel queries . To extract them , first , very broad queries are removed ( ie queries with more than 0.1 % of relevant documents in Yandex web database ) . Second , there must be relevant news that arrived within the threehour time window around the query timestamp . For queries with more than 0.01 % of relevant documents in Yandex web database , the search over news collection is restricted to headings only . 3 . RESULTS The described procedure extracts up to tens of thousands of novel queries and subsequently tens to hundreds of news related queries from about one million queries hourly . We estimate that the fraction of news related queries is about 001 01 % ( however , the fraction grows tenfold when an important event occurs ) . We intentionally extract a narrow class of queries from the stream for reasons of productivity , aiming at achieving high precision rather than high recall . Extracted queries have a number of interesting features . First , news related queries have different length distribution compared to general web queries . Figure 1 represents the length distribution of queries related to Beslan tragedy on September 1 3 , 2004 ( however , this kind of distribution is typical for newsrelated queries in general ) . The web query statistics originate from a one hour log of one of the Yandex front end machines . The majority ( 33 % ) of web queries are single word queries , whereas the main share ( 37 % ) of news related queries consists of bigrams . There are 81 % multi word queries in the total of newsrelated queries .
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0 news related web
1
2
3
4
5
6+
Figure 1 . News related / web queries length
News related queries are not simply longer : they are very condensed event descriptors , often tying together important aspects of an event ( eg location , date , actors , or type of event ) . This feature is illustrated by three pairs of sample queries related to three events ( President Putin ’s press conference , Oscar nominees announced , and computer virus warning ) ( see Table 1 ) . News clustering implemented in Yandex News enables to cluster lexically different queries related to an event . Hence , by using a relatively straightforward technique we can obtain important additional information that makes news processing more robust and precise . Extracting multi word tokens from news stories alone would require exhaustive linguistic methods . Table 1 . Sample extracted event related queries ( Jan 31 2006 )
Original query
English equivalent putin ’s press conference press conference in kremlin computer virus february 3 nyxem virus brokeback mountain ang lee oscar nominees
пресс конференция путина пресс конференция в кремле компьютерный вирус 3 февраля вирус nyxem горбатая гора энга ли номинанты на оскар Moreover , the intensity of the extracted queries is a good indicator for the current user information needs . As proved by our results , internet users’ interest ( seemingly provoked by TV ) is more reactive than Internet news sources’ response , which makes news related queries a useful parameter for news ranking . 4 . EVALUATION Yandex processes about one million queries per hour in daylight hours , which makes manual evaluation of a significant portion of the log unfeasible . We chose four one hour intervals between 10 am and 7 pm in two consequent workdays in December 2005 . The test sample included all queries automatically detected as news related plus randomly selected 2 % of the remaining queries within the respective intervals . The test sample contained 831 queries , 244 ( 30 % ) of which were automatically detected as news related . The test sample was presented to an assessor who evaluated queries in sequence . The assessor answered the question : “ Is it safe to presume that the vast majority of the users making the query at the given time were interested in current news ? ” The results of the evaluation are summarized in Table 2 ( the number of misses is multiplied by 50 ; due to lack of space we do not refer to frequency weighted recall and precision values that are about 10 % higher ) . The data allow us to make some observations . First , the agreement between the assessor and automaton grows gradually from the first evaluated portion to the last one . This fact can be explained by an increase in the assessor ’s competence during the evaluation , since moving from early queries further the assessor is getting a more complete view of the relevant events . Second , in both cases , recall for morning queries is considerably lower than for evening queries . This can be explained by the design of the algorithm . For productivity reasons , novel queries are detected based on query statistics for the whole preceding day ( see Section 2 ) . Thus , if an event occurred yesterday and there are both related articles and queries dated yesterday , then the algorithm often fails to detect the queries as news related next morning .
Table 2 . Evaluation Results
Misses TruePos FalsePos Precision Recall
F1
Dec 7 : 1 pm 9*50 122 30 0.80 0.21 0.34
Dec7 : 6 pm 7*50 130 25 0.84 0.27 0.41
Dec 8 : 10 am 7*50 101 12 0.89 0.22 0.35
Dec 8 : 3 pm 5*50 145 27 0.84 0.37 0.51
5 . CONCLUSION The presented methodology for extracting news related queries from a general purpose search engine yields good precision . The extracted queries can be effectively used for improving user interaction with the search engine and in online news processing . The results outlined in Section 4 suggest that news related query detection in the morning can be improved by comparing query statistics not with the preceding day but with a sliding interval . Additionally , we are going to experiment with processing intervals of about 15 minutes in order to increase the sensitivity of the method , which is important for the news processing tasks .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Beitzel , SM , Jensen , EC , Chowdhury , A . , Grossman , D . , and Frieder , O . Hourly Analysis of a Very Large Topically Categorized Web Query Log . In SIGIR’04 , July 25–29 , 2004 , Sheffield , South Yorkshire , UK , 321 328 .
[ 2 ] Chien , S . and Immorlica , N . Semantic Similarity Between
Search Engine Queries Using Temporal Correlation . In WWW2005 , May 10 14 , 2005 , Chiba , Japan , 2 11 . [ 3 ] Henzinger , M . et al . Query Free News Search . In
WWW2003 , May 20 24 , 2003 , Budapest , Hungary , 1 10
