Estimating Required Recall for Successful Knowledge
Acquisition from the Web ∗
Wolfgang Gatterbauer
Database and Artificial Intelligence Group Vienna University of Technology , Austria gatter@dbaituwienacat
ABSTRACT Information on the Web is not only abundant but also redundant . This redundancy of information has an important consequence on the relation between the recall of an information gathering system and its capacity to harvest the core information of a certain domain of knowledge . This paper provides a new idea for estimating the necessary Web coverage of a knowledge acquisition system in order to achieve a certain desired coverage of the contained core information . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms : Measurement , Theory Keywords : Information extraction , Recall , Redundancy , Quantitative performance measures , Web metrics
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recall is a well established measure in information retrieval ( IR ) and information extraction ( IE ) for evaluating the effectiveness of either retrieving relevant documents or extracting relevant statements with statements considered to be the smallest bits of information about entities [ 5 ] . For information gathering ( IG ) or knowledge acquisition from the Web [ 3 , 4 ] – which can be modeled as a consecutive process of IR , IE and Information Integration ( II ) – the actual goal is not to locate and extract all appearances of relevant information , but to extract as much unique information as possible , disregarding all similar or redundant appearances . For domains with large portions of redundant information on the Web , such as digital consumer products or news , the dominant part of relevant information can be gathered even with low overall recall . As an example , a domain specific recall of r = .0001 would probably be enough for learning the information that Shizuka Arakawa won the gold medal in figure skating at the Winter Olympic Games 20061 .
Therefore , this paper argues to shift the attention from the redundant representation of information to the actual core information stripped off of all redundancy ( Fig 1 ) .
∗This research has been supported in part by the Austrian
Academy of Sciences through a DOC scholarship , and by the Austrian Federal Ministry for Transport , Innovation and Technology under the FIT IT contract FFG 809261 . 1Approximately 10,000 hits for ’Shizuka Arakawa gold skating olympic games 2006’ in Google on February 23 , 2006 Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 .
Figure 1 : The actual target of IG is the core information Au , not its redundant representation A .
2 . UNIQUE RECALL
In what follows , we consider relevance to be a binary decision . Similarly , we disregard the issue of conflicting information and assume two statements to either express the same information , and hence be redundant , or not .
Definition 1 . ( Redundancy ) Let a be the number of relevant statements and au be the number of unique statements among them , which is the smallest number of statements that contain all relevant information or the core relevant information . We define the term redundancy as
ρ = a au
.
( 1 )
Definition 2 . ( Unique recall ) Let au be the number of unique statements within the total set of relevant statements , and let bu be the number of gathered unique relevant statements , stripped off of all redundancy . We define the term unique recall as ru = bu au
.
( 2 )
Proposition 1 . ( Unique recall formula ) Assume redundancy ( ρ ) to be equal among all subsets of relevant statements . Further assume the probability of each occurrence of relevant information to be extracted by a given mechanism equal and expressed by the measure recall ( r ) . Then the expected value of unique recall ru can be approximated by ru = 1 − ( 1 − r)ρ .
( 3 ) uAuBBARelevant unique or coreinformationInformationDissemination(with redundancy )Redundant represen tation of relevantinformationRetrieved & extracted relevantinformationGathered relevantcore informationEffectiveness of Information Gathering from the Web : ru= InformationIntegration(assumed perfect)InformationRetrieval & Extraction(with recall r )ruBuAuBuA ( a ) ru(r , ρ )
( b ) ru(r = 0.5 , ρ = 2 , n )
( c ) Example canonical f ( η )
( d ) ru for example f ( η )
Figure 2 : Relations between recall r , unique recall ru and varying distributions f ( η ) of redundancy ρ .
Figure 2(a ) shows equation 3 for example values of ρ . Despite the apparent innocence of this formula , its derivation is not straightforward . The proof succeeds by applying a limit value consideration to a geometric model of a probabilistic lottery . Figure 2(b ) illustrates this approximation to be suitable and to hold strongly for n → ∞ with n being the number of unique occurrences of relevant information .
By building on Proposition 1 , we can formulate the general equation for arbitrary redundancy distributions with ρmax layers of partly redundant information as ru = 1 − ρmax:i=1
αi ( 1 − r)i ,
( 4 ) st2n i=1 αi and2n i=1 iαi = ρ , with αi being the fractions of the total amount of unique information contained within a block with redundancy ρ = i = const , i ∈ {1 , 2 , ρmax} Calculating the first derivative and then taking the limit value for r → 0 , we further learn the approximation ru ≈ ρr , for r → 0 .
( 5 )
Figure 2(d ) depicts equation 5 together with the closed solutions for the three canonical redundancy distributions homogeneous , linear and geometric from Fig 2(c ) .
3 . DISCUSSION AND FUTURE WORK
To the author ’s best knowledge , no prior attempt has been made to incorporate the effects of redundant information sources into a single effectiveness measure for the whole knowledge acquisition process , nor is the seemingly simple proposition 1 contained in major mathematical literature .
To demonstrate its practical relevance , assume we want to know the fraction r of available redundant information instances we have to retrieve and extract in order to learn a certain portion of the core information from a given domain of interest . Further assume the redundancy distribution of information within this domain to follow a known function 0 f ( η)dη = ρ . The inverse function −1(r ) of equation 4 then gives us the required joint recall f ( η ) with η ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] and4 1 ru rreq of the IR and IE steps of our IG system .
Deriving a particular analytic solution is not always simple , mainly due to the required transitions between discrete and continuous viewpoints . However , given our derived approximation of ru(r ) for r → 0 from equation 5 , which holds even stronger for ru → 0 with ru ≥ r , we can state the following approximation , independent of the actual distribution f ( η ) : rreq ≈ ru ρ
, for small ru .
( 6 )
Figure 2(d ) shows that this relation holds well for small ru , and since we defined ρ as the average redundancy , this result seems to contrast claims that the feature ’mean’ has little practical value for skewed distributions [ 1 ] .
The intriguing open and relevant problem is to derive the analytic solution for a generalized Zipf redundancy distribution , as this distribution is generally assumed to approximate well the frequency of appearance of individual pieces of information on the Web [ 6 , 7 ] . A more playful formulation of the research question is as follows : Assume the Zipf distribution with exponential parameter γ ≈ 2 of Fig 2(c ) adequately describes the redundancy distribution of information on the Web [ 2 ] . What is the generalization of the 20/80 rule [ 8 ] that holds for the Web ?
Acknowledgement . The author would like to express his gratitude to Professor Georg Gottlob for overall motivation of this research , and to Konrad Richter for always having time to discuss some interesting mathematical problems .
4 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] Z . Bi , C . Faloutsos , and F . Korn . The ” DGX ” distribution for mining massive , skewed data . In Proc . KDD , pages 17–26 . ACM , 2001 .
[ 2 ] S . Bornholdt and H . Ebel . World Wide Web scaling exponent from Simon ’s 1955 model . Physical Review E , 64:035104 , 2001 .
[ 3 ] M . Craven , D . DiPasquo , D . Freitag , A . K . McCallum , T . M .
Mitchell , K . Nigam , and S . Slattery . Learning to construct knowledge bases from the World Wide Web . Artificial Intelligence , 118(1/2):69–113 , 2000 .
[ 4 ] O . Etzioni , M . J . Cafarella , D . Downey , A M Popescu ,
T . Shaked , S . Soderland , D . S . Weld , and A . Yates . Methods for domain independent information extraction from the Web : An experimental comparison . In Proc . AAAI , pages 391–398 . AAAI , 2004 .
[ 5 ] W . Gatterbauer , B . Kr¨upl , W . Holzinger , and M . Herzog . Web information extraction using eupeptic data in Web tables . In Proc . RAWS , pages 41–48 . VSB TU Ostrava , 2005 .
[ 6 ] P . G . Ipeirotis and L . Gravano . Distributed search over the hidden web : hierarchical database sampling and selection . In Proc . VLDB , pages 394–405 . Morgan Kaufmann , 2002 .
[ 7 ] D . A . Shamma , S . Owsley , K . J . Hammond , S . Bradshaw , and
J . Budzik . Network arts : exposing cultural reality . In Proc . WWW . ACM , 2004 .
[ 8 ] Wikipedia . Pareto principle , 2006 . Available : http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Pareto principle ( February 2006 ) .
00510051RecallUnique recall ρ=2 ρ=5 ρ=10 ρ=11101001000050751Number of total units of relevant informationUnique recall ru → 1−(1−r)ρru with ρ=2 , r=0.55th and 95th perc00Amount of unique InformationRedundancy of Information1/ρρ2ρhomlingeozipf ( γ=2)00510051RecallUnique recall ρ=10homlingeoApprox . for r << 1
