Learning and Inferencing in User Ontology for
Personalized Semantic Web Services
Xing Jiang
Nanyang Technological University
Nanyang Avenue , Singapore 639798
Ah Hwee Tan
Nanyang Technological University
Nanyang Avenue , Singapore 639798 jian0008@ntuedusg asahtan@ntuedusg
ABSTRACT Domain ontology has been used in many Semantic Web applications . However , few applications explore the use of ontology for personalized services . This paper proposes an ontology based user model consisting of both concepts and semantic relations to represent users’ interests . Specifically , we adopt a statistical approach to learning a semantic based user ontology model from domain ontology and a spreading activation procedure for inferencing in the user ontology model . We apply the methods of learning and exploiting user ontology to a semantic search engine for finding academic publications . Our experimental results support the efficacy of user ontology and spreading activation theory ( SAT ) for providing personalized semantic services .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Retrieval models
General Terms : Algorithm , Performance
Keywords : User Ontology , Spreading Activation Theory
INTRODUCTION
1 . In the Semantic Web , domain ontology is commonly used to describe web resources . Containing semantics in the form of concepts , relations and axioms , domain ontology enables software agents to perform more sophisticated tasks automatically . Specifically , many applications have been developed for information retrieval . For instance , Guha et al . [ 2 ] used ontology to improve traditional web search by augmenting search results with related concepts in the ontology . Although there have been many applications of domain ontology , relatively few are concerned with providing personalized information services . In this paper , we propose using an ontology based user model for representing a personalized view of the target domain to capture a user ’s interests and a set of statistical methods for learning the user ontology . We further incorporate the proposed user ontology model and the SAT [ 1 ] based inferencing procedure into a semantic search engine for searching academic publications .
2 . USER ONTOLOGY MODEL Considering the sample domain ontology given in Figure 1 , that represents a basic conceptualization of the Italian soccer teams . We see that “ AC Milan ” and “ Inter Milan ” are Italian soccer teams belonging to different leagues . But this
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 .
Team
I
S
A
IS A
League
I
S
A
IS A
Inter Milan
AC Milan
Join
Champion
League
Serie
A
Join
Join
Figure 1 : A partial domain ontology for the Italian soccer teams .
Team ( 0.2 )
IS A ( 0.5 )
I
S
A
( 0 . 5 )
Inter Milan ( 0.4 )
AC Milan ( 1.0 )
League
( 0.5 )
Join ( 0.7 )
IS A ( 0.5 ) Champion
League
( 0.4 )
I
S
( 0
.
A
5 )
Serie
A
( 0.4 )
Join ( 0.3 )
Join ( 1.0 )
Figure 2 : An illustration of the user ontology . domain ontology may be too general for individual ’s interests . For instance , I can be a big fan of the AC Milan team . Therefore , the concept “ AC Milan ” is more important to me than the concept “ Inter Milan ” . Meanwhile , joining Champion League is more important to me than joining the Serie A League . The existing user modelling methods only consider the importance of the concepts for capturing user ’s interests . A user ontology , on the other hand , can capture all necessary semantics from a domain ontology for user modelling . Specifically , each concept and relation in the domain ontology will be given certain values for indicating user ’s interests . It is a personalized view of the conceptualization and is more comprehensive than the existing types of user models . An illustration of the user ontology is given in Figure 2 , in which concepts and relations have been given specific values to indicate their relevance to a user .
A user ontology can be defined formally as a structure
Θ = ( C , R , θ , C , R ) consisting of
• two disjoint sets C and R , whose elements cx and rxy are the concepts and relations in the domain ontology , • a function θ : θ(C|R ) , which assigns weights to concepts and relations in the domain ontology , representing an individual ’s view of the particular domain ,
• a vector C = [ C1 , . . . , Cn ] , in which Cx represents a user ’s interests to concept cx , and
Keyword Based Query
Traditional Search
Engine
Initial Document
Result
User
Final Document
Result
+
Vector C
SpreadingActivation process
Matrix R
Concepts Activated
User Ontology
Figure 3 : The procedure for exploiting user ontology in document retrieval .
• a matrix R = [ Rxy ] , in which Rxy represents a user ’s interests to relation rxy and
Rxy = 1 .
3 . LEARNING USER ONTOLOGY y
3.1 Learning Concepts of Interests Estimating the interest factor Cx of a user on a concept is relatively straightforward . For instance , we can record the concepts of interests to the user and their frequencies when a user searches information in the web . Meanwhile , we use a decay function [ 1 ] , given by Cx(ti+1 ) = Cx(ti ) × δ−b , to prevent saturation of the interest factor Cx in the user ontology . 3.2 Learning Relations of Interests Learning relations of interests to a user is similar to learning concepts of interests . Initially , an estimated value R0 xy is assigned to each relation rxy . Then , an empirical value is computed for each relation by analyzing the historical record . We used a Bayesian solution to compute a weighted average of the initial value and the empirical value as follows :
Rxy =
,
( 1 ) a × R0 xy + F ( rxy ) a + y F ( rxy ) where a is a constant to normalize the empirical value and the initial estimation , and F ( rxy ) is the frequency of the relation rxy obtained from the user ’s historical record .
4 . EXPLOITING USER ONTOLOGY We present a procedure ( Figure 3 ) wherein a user ontology is used to re rank the search results of a search engine below . Similar to that of a traditional search engine , a user submits a query consisting of keywords to the system . The search engine then returns an initial list of documents obtained using the classical keyword based search method . With the documents pre annotated with concepts , we can obtain a set of associated concepts besides the documents retrieved . These concepts together with their occurrence frequencies form a vector I = [ I1 , I2 , . . . , In]T as the input for inferencing in the user ontology , where Ix , the input to F ( cx ) , where F ( cx ) represents the frequency of the concept cx in the initial document list . the concept cx , is calculated by Ix = F ( cx ) cx
Upon receiving the input vector I , the spreading activation process is performed on the user ontology to infer the concepts of relevance . Using simplified SAT in which the output of a concept cy at time ti is the input of the concept keyword domain ontology user ontology
0.90
0.80
0.70
0.60
0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00 i i n o s c e r P
1
2
3
4
5
Figure 4 : Average precision of the semantic search engine with and without the use of user ontology in document retrieval compared with keyword based method . cy at time ti , Ocy ( ti ) = Icy ( ti ) , the spreading activation process can be expressed using the following formula :
O = [ E − ( 1 − α)RT ]
−1
I ,
( 2 ) where R is the relation matrix of the user ontology , α is the decay factor , E is an n × n identity matrix , and O = [ O1 , . . . , On]T is the final output vector of the spreadingactivation process in which Ox is the value of concept cx obtained from the spreading activation process .
Next , the relevance factor Ox is combined with the user ’s long term interest factor Cx to derive a final score Sx for the concept cx . The score strikes a balance between long time interest and current relevance . In our application , the score Sx is computed by Sx = Ox + Cx × δ−b , where δ represents the time interval since the last query and b is a real valued constant to simulate the decay function .
Finally , documents with high rankings in the initial list and annotated with concepts with high S values are moved towards the top of the list for presentation to the user .
5 . EXPERIMENT A semantic search engine that incorporates user ontology and SAT has been developed for searching academic publication in a database . All documents collected are annotated using the ACM Computing Classification System , which also serves as the domain ontology .
5 users are involved in evaluating the user ontology ’s ability for providing personalized services . Each user provides two sets of queries , one for training the model and the other for testing . We experiment with the semantic search engine , first using the traditional keyword based method , then augmented with domain ontology , and finally enhanced with user ontology to provide recommendation for the test queries . The performance of the search engine , in terms of the average precision of the top 10 documents retrieved , is summarized in Figure 4 . We see that the user ontology based system consistently outperforms or produces equivalent performance compared with the two methods , validating our approach of using user ontology as user models in the Semantic Web .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Anderson , R . J . A spreading activation theory of memory . Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 22 ( 1983 ) , 261–295 .
[ 2 ] Guha , R . , McCool , R . , and Miller , E . Semantic search . In WWW ’03 , ACM Press , pp . 700–709 .
