Beyond XML and RDF :
The Versatile Web Query Language Xcerpt∗
Sacha Berger
Institute for Informatics ,
University of Munich Oettingenstrasse 67
81543 Munich , Germany
François Bry
Institute for Informatics ,
University of Munich Oettingenstrasse 67
81543 Munich , Germany
SachaBerger@ifilmude
FrancoisBry@ifilmude
Tim Furche
Institute for Informatics ,
University of Munich Oettingenstrasse 67
81543 Munich , Germany TimFurche@ifilmude
Benedikt Linse
Institute for Informatics ,
University of Munich Oettingenstrasse 67
81543 Munich , Germany
Andreas Schroeder Institute for Informatics ,
University of Munich Oettingenstrasse 67
81543 Munich , Germany
BenediktLinse@ifilmude
AndreasSchroeder@ifilmude
ABSTRACT Applications and services that access Web data are becoming increasingly more useful and wide spread . Current main stream Web query languages such as XQuery , XSLT , or SPARQL , however , focus only on one of the different data formats available on the Web . In contrast , Xcerpt is a versatile semi structured query language , ie , a query language able to access all kinds of Web data such as XML and RDF in the same language reusing common concepts and language constructs . To integrate heterogeneous data and as a foundation for Semantic Web reasoning , Xcerpt also provides rules . Xcerpt has a visual companion language , visXcerpt , that is conceived as a mere rendering of the ( textual ) query language Xcerpt using a slightly extended CSS . Both languages are demonstrated along a realistic use case integrating XML and RDF data highlighting interesting and unique features . Novel language constructs and optimization techniques are currently under investigation in the Xcerpt project ( cf . http://xcerptorg/ ) Categories and Subject Descriptors : H23[Database Management ] : Languages—query languages General Terms : Languages , Performance Keywords : XML , RDF , Web , query languages , versatility , Xcerpt
1 . XCERPT : A VERSATILE WEB QUERY
LANGUAGE
Web querying has received considerable attention from academia and industry culminating in the recent development of the W3C Web query languages XQuery and SPARQL . These main stream languages , however , focus only on one of the different data formats available on the Web . Integration of data from different sources and ∗This research has been funded by the European Commission and by the Swiss Federal Office for Education and Science within the 6th Framework Programme project REWERSE number 506779 ( cf . http://wwwrewersenet/ )
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . in different formats becomes a daunting task that requires knowledge of several query languages and to overcome the impedance mismatch between the query paradigms in the different languages . Xcerpt [ 7 ] addresses this issue by garnering the entire language towards versatility in format , representation , and schema of the data , cf . [ 4 ] . It is a semi structured query language , but very much unique among such languages ( for an overview see [ 1] ) :
( 1 ) In its use of a graph data model , it stands more closely to semi structured query languages like Lorel than to recent mainstream XML query languages .
( 2 ) In its aim to address all specificities of XML , it resembles more mainstream XML query languages such as XSLT or XQuery . ( 3 ) In using ( slightly enriched ) patterns ( or templates or examples ) of the sought for data for querying , it resembles more the “ query by example ” paradigm [ 8 ] than mainstream XML query languages using navigational access .
( 4 ) In offering a consistent extension of XML , it is able to incorporate access to data represented in richer data representation formats . Instances of such features are element content , where the order is irrelevant , and non hierarchical relations .
( 5 ) In providing ( syntactical ) extensions for querying , among others , RDF , Xcerpt becomes a versatile query language , cf . [ 4 ] .
( 6 ) In its strict separation of querying and construction . visXcerpt [ 2 ] is Xcerpt ’s visual companion language related to it in an unusual way : visXcerpt is a visual query language obtained by mere rendering of Xcerpt without changing the language constructs or the runtime system for query evaluation . This rendering is mainly achieved via CSS styling of Xcerpt ’s constructs . The authors believe that this approach is promising , as it makes those languages easy to learn—and easy to develop .
2 . SETTING OF THE DEMONSTRATOR
Excerpts from DBLP1 and from a computer science taxonomy form the base for the scenario considered in the application . DBLP is a collection of bibliographic entries for articles , books , etc . in the field of Computer Science . DBLP data is a representative for standard Web data using a mixture of rather regular XML content com
1http://wwwinformatikuni trierde/˜ley/db/
Figure 1 : Exemplary visXcerpt Query Patterns bined with free form , HTML like information . A small Computer Science taxonomy has been built for the purpose of this demonstration . Very much in the spirit of SKOS , this is a lightweight ontology based on RDF and RDFS . Combining such an ontology as metadata with the XML data of DBLP is a foundation for applications such as community based classification and analysis of bibliographic information using interrelations between researchers and research fields . Realizing such applications is eased by using the integrated Web and semantic Web query language ( vis)Xcerpt that also allows reasoning using rules .
3 . REALIZING VERSATILITY
Query and construction patterns in ( vis)Xcerpt are used , both for binding variables in query terms and for reassembling the variables in so called construct terms . The variable binding paradigm is that of Datalog : the programmer specifies patterns including variables . Interactive behavior of variables in visXcerpt highlights the relation between variables in query and construct terms . Arguably , pattern based querying and constructing together with the variable binding paradigm make complex queries easier to specify and read .
To cope with the semistructured nature of Web data , ( vis)Xcerpt query patterns use a notion of incomplete term specifications with optional or unordered content specification . This feature distinguishes ( vis)Xcerpt from query languages like Datalog and query interfaces like QBE [ 8 ] . Simple , yet powerful textual and visual constructs of incompleteness are presented in the demonstrator application , cf . Figure 1 showing two exemplary visual query patterns and a breakdown of used language constructs .
An important characteristic of ( vis)Xcerpt is its rule based nature : ( vis)Xcerpt provides rules very similar to SQL views . Arguably , rules or views are convenient for a logical structuring of complex queries . Thus , in specifying a complex query , it eases the programming and improves the program readability to specify ( abstract ) rules as intermediate steps—very much like procedures in conventional programming . Another aspect of rules is the ability to solve simple reasoning tasks .
Referential transparency and answer closedness are essential properties of Xcerpt and visXcerpt , surfacing in various parts of the demonstration . They are two precisely defined traits of the rather vague notion of “ declarativity ” . Referential transparency means that within a definition scope all occurrences of an expression have the same value , ie , denote the same data . Answer closedness means that replacing a sub query in a compound query by a possible single answer always yields a syntactically valid query . Referentially transparent and answer closed programs are easy to understand ( and therefore easy to develop and to maintain ) , as the unavoidable shift in syntax from the data sought for to the query specifying this data is minimized .
4 . EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY
Currently , two main threads are considered in the Xcerpt project : ( 1 ) A careful review of language constructs is underway that aims at an improved effectiveness for query authoring , cf . [ 6 ] . Related is a better support for RDF , including proper handling of b nodes in results and incomplete data specifications . Furthermore , a type system [ 3 ] for Xcerpt is under development that eases error detection and recovery . ( 2 ) Novel evaluation methods for Xcerpt , enabled by high level query constructs , are being investigated . Xcerpt ’s pattern matching is based on simulation unification . An efficient algorithm of simulation unification that is competitive with current main stream Web query languages both in worst case complexity and practical performance is described in [ 5 ] . Optimizations of the rule chaining algorithm are also investigated , partially based on dependency analysis provided by the above mentioned type system .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . Bailey , F . Bry , T . Furche , and S . Schaffert . Web and Semantic Web Query Languages : A Survey . Reasoning Web Summer School 2005 . Springer , 2005 .
[ 2 ] S . Berger , F . Bry , S . Schaffert , and C . Wieser . Xcerpt and visXcerpt : From
Pattern Based to Visual Querying of XML and Semistructured Data . In 29th Intl . Conf . on Very Large Data Bases , 2003 .
[ 3 ] S . Berger , E . Coquery , W . Drabent , and A . Wilk . Descriptive Typing Rules for
Xcerpt . In Proc . of Workshop on Principles and Practice of Semantic Web Reasoning . 2005 .
[ 4 ] F . Bry , T . Furche , L . Badea , C . Koch , S . Schaffert , and S . Berger . Querying the
Web Reconsidered : Design Principles for Versatile Web Query Languages . Journal of Semantic Web and Information Systems , 1(2 ) , 2005 .
[ 5 ] F . Bry , A . Schroeder , T . Furche , and B . Linse . Efficient Evaluation of n ary
Queries over Trees and Graphs . Submitted for publication , 2006 .
[ 6 ] T . Furche , F . Bry , and S . Schaffert . Initial Draft of a Language Syntax .
Deliverable I4 D6 , REWERSE , 2006 .
[ 7 ] S . Schaffert and F . Bry . Querying the Web Reconsidered : A Practical
Introduction to Xcerpt . In Extreme Markup Languages , 2004 .
[ 8 ] M . M . Zloof . Query by Example : A Data Base Language . IBM Systems
Journal , 16(4):324–343 , 1977 .
Terms as formulas : Terms may contain boolean connectives , variables , negation , etc.Subterm negation : Some subterms may be required not to occur in matching dataOptional subterms:Local form of disjunction essential for variable schema dataValue Joins:Expressed through multiple variable occurrencesOptional construction:Limited form of conditional construction based on variable bindingsAccessing Web resources : arbitrary XML documents can be accessed using their URLIncomplete patterns in depth : descendant allows additional intermediary elementsGrouping collects alternative bindings for variables:essential for structural assembly Incomplete patterns in breadth : partial patterns allow additional child elements
