Visualizing An Historical Semantic Web with Heml
Bruce G . Robertson
Dept . of Classics , Mount Allison University
402 Hart Hall , 63D York St .
Sackville , NB , Canada E4L 1G9 brobertson@mta.ca
ABSTRACT This poster presents ongoing efforts to enrich the RDF based semantic Web with the tools of the Historical Event Markup and Linking Project ( Heml ) . An experimental RDF vocabulary for Heml data is illustrated , as well as its use in storing and querying encoded historical events . Finally , the practical use of Heml RDF is illustrated with a toolkit for the Piggy Bank semantic browser plugin .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : J.5 [ Computer Applications ] : Arts and Humanities
General Terms : Experimentation
Keywords : ACM proceedings , Heml , RDF , History , Chronology
1 .
INTRODUCTION TO HEML
Since 2001 the Historical Event Markup and Linking Project
( Heml ) has explored the use of W3C markup technologies to encode and visualize historical events on the web.1 It has sought to provide a reasonably lightweight markup language suitable for encoding events and their associated participants and locations . In addition , the project offers a webapp which renders conforming documents into SVG and HTML visualizations[3 , 4 ] .
The project provides these tools in the form of Java code and XSLT style sheets integrated as a component for the Apache Group ’s Cocoon web development framework . All of this is offered under the LGPL ; and it may be downloaded from a SVN repository , available at svn://heml . mta.ca/home/heml/heml_svn , and from regularly published releases , now at version 072
Heml was originally conceived within the XML paradigm . Though its XML based tools have proved useful in presenting large scale research projects and even visualizing emergency messaging[1 , 5 ] , the Heml Project ’s goal is more universal : as we wrote in our original proposal , Heml aims ‘to add a historical component to the growing movement for a Semantic Web.’ To this end , in the past year , the project has refocused itself around RDF technologies . This poster presents the results of this work and some of the opportunities Heml ’s visualization tools offer to RDF data .
1The project website is at http://hemlmtaca
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 .
2 . THE HEML SCHEMA
The RDF representation used by the Heml webapp is based on the third and most recent schema developed by the project , assigned the namespace http://wwwhemlorg/ schemas/2003 09 17/heml . Originally written in W3C XML Schema , it has been translated to Relax NG and integrated into an XHTML profile language . These resources and their documentation are available at http://hemlmtaca/Schemas/ 2003 09 17/ .
Because this version associates the definitions of locations and persons with the events in which they participate through URI attributes , only a short XSLT stylesheet is required to transform conforming documents into similarlyintentioned RDF . In both cases , the basis of Heml markup is the historical Event , which , in its simplest form , associates a text label with an indicator of time and a reference to evidence , and it assigns a URI to the union . In RDF terms , this resource is the root node of the directed graph .
The schema permits a single location to be associated with each event . Locations are provided labels and geo:lat and geo:long coordinates . Events may be associated with one or more persons , either directly , or in combination with a ’role’ . Finally , one or more KeywordClassifications , with values such as ‘death’ or ‘battle’ , are possible properties of events . 2.1 Chronology
Naturally the encoding of time is critical to this project . Heml takes a pragmatic approach to this problem and deploys existing computational tools as they might best serve the purpose of historical indexing . In its schema , temporal primitives include dates recorded in W3C Schema ’s DateTime , Date or gYear formats . A more complex time primitive is the ‘bounded date’ which entails the properties TerminusPostQuem and TerminusAnteQuem in one of the above three formats . Finally all of these four elements can be used as property values of the starting or ending point in a DateRange , a construct which expresses a span of time .
3 . VISUALIZING RDF WITH THE HEML
WEB SERVICE
The Heml webapp transforms conforming data into various representations , both HTML and SVG . However , the most popular representations are the graphical ones : scaled timelines and , when appropriate , historical maps , both animated and rendered as in figure 1 . Through our project ’s REST based web services , these visualizations are available to conforming data across the web .
Figure 1 : Map generated With a SPARQL query
4 . ACCESSING HEML DATA IN RDF
To explore the use of RDF for storing and accessing Heml data , we have employed the Redland RDF database and used SPARQL queries to retrieve events in RDF . The results of this process is passed to the visualization web service . Figure 1 shows a map generated through this process . To produce this map , the SPARQL query retrieved events whose labels contained the word ‘Henry’ . These events included the election and death of US president William Henry Harrison , Spinoza writing Henry Oldenburg , and the escape of the indentured servant , Henry Watkins . The map drawing routine selects an appropriate SVG base map , plots dots for each location associated with an event and draws the window in which event label text appears . This text is hyperlinked to pop up HTML which provides links to the web resources encoded as evidence for the event .
4.1 Heml and Piggy Bank
The Heml project aims not merely to produce code that generates historical visualizations , but it also aims through that code to germinate a web of structured data relating to history . In this way it hopes to provide students and scholars with a truly historical means of searching the web , using search the axes of time , place and text . The true extensibility of RDF and the many experiments in data harvesting that go with it make the project ’s goal closer to reality . Our poster presents a Heml aware version of Piggy Bank , the semantic browser plugin devised by Simile at MIT[2 ] . This acts on invisible links and/or xslt stylesheets which export current ( XML ) Heml data as RDF . Using this , the student calls up a hyperlinked timeline of the events represented in the documents she has read ( and whose events she has stored in her personal ’bank’ ) . These might range from tags embedded in an archaeological new bulletin pertaining to early hominids in Europe , through to the Dublin Core publication date tags on an on line edition of Charles Dickens’ Hard Times , all the way to current events in Ukraine posted in the notes of a Political Science course . An example is offered in figure 2 .
5 . FUTURE WORK
The is just the first of many possible applications of the Heml visualization tools . Through an RDF query and transformation system Heml can provide visualizations of other , more complex , RDF vocabularies such as MEMECS ( Metadonnes et Mmoire Collective Systmatique)[6 ] . In fact , any labelled RDF resource with associated temporal properties of the appropriate property type could be treated as a Heml event and visualized alongside all others . For instance , just as Piggy Bank now provides ‘Calendar’ and ‘Map’ views for
Figure 2 : SVG Timeline generated from RDFencoded data its data bank , Heml ’s tools can offer a more deeply historical ‘Timeline’ view .
Similarly , as this project makes its RDF schema more concrete , it is hoped that other RDF vocabularies will find it useful to integrate into their vocabularies . For instance , the FOAF project , http://wwwfoaf projectorg , whose RDF vocabulary describes people and the links between them , might wish to use Heml visualization so that participants can publish Heml events in their life , and thereby provide each other with a brief life histories to compare and explore .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Costa , editor . The Geography of Slavery in
Virginia . University of Virginia , 2005 . http://wwwvcdhvirginiaedu/gos/indexhtml
[ 2 ] D . F . Huynh , S . Mazzocchi , and R . Lee . Piggy Bank .
Technical report , MIT and W3C , 2005 . http://similemitedu/piggy bank/
[ 3 ] B . Robertson . Dalla Fonte all Rete : Il linguaggio
XML e la codifica dei documenti storici , archeologici e archivistici , An Overview of the Historical Event Markup and Linking Project , pages 37–50 . Pisa , 2002 . [ 4 ] B . Robertson . Improving Ancient History Online with
Heml . Classics@ , 2 , 2004 .
[ 5 ] B . Robertson and K . Green . Visualizing APRS
Messaging with Heml . In Proceedings of the 24th Digitial Communications Conference . TAPR and ARRL , 2005 .
[ 6 ] K . H . Veltman . Cultural and Historical Metadata ,
MEMECS ( Metadonn´ees et M´emoire Collective Syst´ematique ) . Cultivate Interactive , 1 , 2000 . http://wwwcultivate intorg/issue1/memecs/
