Design and Development of Learning Management System at Universiti Putra Malaysia : A Case Study of e SPRINT
Sidek HA Aziz
Institute of Multimedia and
Software
Universiti Putra Malaysia
43400 UPM Serdang Selangor ,
MALAYSIA
603 89466682
Aida Suraya M . Yunus Institute of Multimedia and
Software
Universiti Putra Malaysia
43400 UPM Serdang Selangor , MALAYSIA
603 89468195 sidek@putraupmedumy aida@educupmedumy kamarab@educupmedumy
Kamariah A . Bakar & Hamidah B . Meseran Institute of Multimedia and
Software
Universiti Putra Malaysia
43400 UPM Serdang Selangor ,
MALAYSIA
603 89468196
• Difficulties in setting time for students to meet their lecturers due to the lecturer ’s hectic schedule .
• A need for a systematic database to store lecture notes and a platform for knowledge sharing among students and lecturers .
UPM has developed and implemented its own e learning platform the e SPRINT , since year 2000 . The development of eSPRINT was prompted by the need for a uniform and reliable system of implementing online courses for UPM . The eSPRINT was then further developed and implemented . It is developed using PERL and supported by standard flat files in Linux/UNIX environment . Lecturers and students are currently using this system for their online courses .
3 . BASIC FEATURES OF E SPRINT
The five main modules of e SPRINT ( Fig 1 ) are developed to address the problems stated earlier . Listed below are some of the guidance characteristic in developing the modules and feature of e SPRINT : • • •
Full implementation in Bahasa Melayu ( national language ) Easy contents maintenance for lecturers . To cultivate management . Easy access points for students . Secured document .
• • • An easy to use application . • Direct upload facilities for various file formats . • Required minimal ICT related skills . •
The features highlighted above are addressed in the development of the 5 main modules namely the News , Lecture Notes , Tutorials , Forums and Students . These modules provides the basic features in developing of learning management system [ 3 ] .
News – Official for instructors/lecturer to post notices and messages pertaining to courses taught .
Lecture Notes – A module for lecturers to post and edit lecture notes . Lecturers can also include brief information about the the culture of digitized
Interacive system lecture notes communication channel meant
1
ABSTRACT
This paper reports the design and development of the e SPRINT , Learning Management System , which has been derived from Sistem Pengurusan Rangkaian Integrasi Notakuliah dalam Talian – mod Elektronik ) and currently being implemented at Universiti Putra Malaysia ( UPM ) . The e SPRINTwas developed by utilizing PERL ( Practical Extraction and Report Language ) and was supported by standard database in Linux/UNIX environment operating system . The system is currently being used to supplement and complement part of the classroom based teaching . This paper covers the architecture and features of the e SPRINT system which consists of five main modules . Some general issues and challenges of such e learning initiatives implementation will also be discussed .
Categories and Subject descriptor : H . INFORMATION SYSTEMS H.4 INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS General Terms : Design , Management Keywords : Internet , Learning Management System
1 . INTRODUCTION
E learning is an educational process that leverages on the opportunities of digital technologies for delivering contents , assessing learners’ competences and for enhancing interaction among learners and between tutors and learners .
Internet has the ability to provide educators the opportunities for networking with colleagues , learning about developments in any fields of interest , finding new resources and establishing a sense of community among educators [ 1 ] .
The objective of this research is to establish a learning management system ( LMS ) that acts as a one stop teaching and learning resource centre for students and lecturers .
2 . DEVELOPMENT OF E SPRINT
Listed below are some of the findings done in UPM teaching and learning environment that motivates the development of eSPRINT [ 2 ] ; • Difficulties in monitoring students academic performance . •
Time taken to evaluate students academic performance .
Copyright
WWW 2006 , May 22 26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , UK . course such as course outline , list of lecture topics , schedules , references and further readings , methods of assessment and contact information .
Tutorials – A module for putting tutorial materials online .
Forum – A tool to allow two way communication between lecturers and students as well as among students themselves .
Student – A module for lectures to post lists of students , continuous assessment marks , and tutorial/laboratory groupings .
Figure 1 : Screen capture of the e SPRINT , a home grown learning management system .
4 . ISSUES AND CHALLENGES
Previous studies have identified best practices associated with the e learning implementation [ 4 6 ] . They uncovered three factors that contribute to readiness of organizations to embrace e learning : people , place and resources . Within these three areas there are a number of variables . For example in the people variable there is commitment and skill , for place there is stability and infrastructure , under the resources category we identified funds and knowledge .
People Commitment and skill are critical factors of readiness of an organization to embrace e learning :
• in
• Commitment . One way to measure commitment is by considering whether key decision makers the organization are serious about investigating the use of e learning . Skill . Project manager , instructional developers , software programmers , multimedia experts , graphics experts , and others , including information systems experts are required in developing the e learning program . Experienced people have had opportunities to develop their skills , so experience with e learning is a very desirable quality to seek .
Place The two factors under place that are critical indicators of readiness of an organization to embrace to e learning were flexibility and infrastructure .
•
Flexibility . In order to meet change effectively , diverse groups mainly academician , student as well
• together administrator must work Training project leaders must foster team spirit . Infrastructure . E learning does not necessarily require a huge infrastructure . Some successful programs are simple add ons to the enterprise wide intranet . effectively .
Resources the key variables selected by the team as critical indicators of readiness of an organization to embrace e learning are funds and knowledge .
•
Funds . The initial costs of developing e learning are higher than most equivalent leader led interventions . Faced with high costs might be tempted to cut corners . In the long run , however , a well designed elearning package shrinks high costs associated with travel , accommodation , and instructors .
• Knowledge . When deciding whether the organization is ready for e learning , assessment is needed whether there is sufficient knowledge about the range of elearning options , knowledge about the impact that using e learning will have on the organization and the people who work there .
5 CONCLUSION
This paper presents an overview of the development and the features of e SPRINT . Based on the feedback received in the implementation study of the e SPRINT , an approach has to be adapted to enhance the computer and lab facilities . Awareness should also be greatly enhanced and provide on the application of e SPRINT for students .
It is hoped that this will provide a way in managing e learning initiative in UPM . Its GUI based , user friendly and intuitive features make e SPRINT easy to use and is comparable to , if not better than , other commercially available online lecture systems .
In implementing the e learning system , three major factors that contribute to readiness of organizations to embrace e learning : people , place and resources must be carefully considered .
References
[ 1 ] Heinrich , V . , 1996 , “ Professional Development using the
Internet ” Adult Learning , 7(3 ) : 9 10 Sidek A . Aziz . , 2004 , “ AIPA Report for MAMPU ” , Public Service Department , Kuala Lumpur .
[ 3 ] Mohamed Amin Embi et . al , 2001 , ” Open Virtec : A Virtual
[ 2 ]
Instruction Delivery System . ” , Workshop on Developing Effectice Online Learning Delivery System for Institution of Higher Learning . Shah Alam .
[ 4 ] Capper , J . ( 2001 ) e Learning growth and promise for the developing world . TechKnowLogia 2(2)7 10 .
[ 6 ]
[ 5 ] Jackson , GB and J . Jones ( 2001 ) Web based simulations for science and math instruction . TechKnowLogia 2(2)3941 . Farrell , G . ( 2001 ) The Changing Faces of Virtual Education . The Commonwealth of Learning , Vancouver , Canada . Retrieved from http://wwwcolorg/virtualed/ on January 2006 .
2
3
