Web Annotation Sharing using P2P
Osamu Segawa
Chubu Electric Power Co . , Inc .
Nagoya , 459 8522 Japan
SegawaOsamu@chudencojp
ABSTRACT We have developed a system that allows users to add annotations immediately onto a Web page they are viewing , and share the information via a network . A novel feature of our method is that P2P nodes in the system determine their roles autonomously , and share the annotation data . Our method is based on P2P ; however , P2P nodes in the system change their roles and data transfer procedures , depending on their network topology or the status of other nodes . Our method is robust to node or network problems , and has flexible scalability .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Systems ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia
General Terms Algorithms , Design
Keywords Annotation , P2P
1 .
INTRODUCTION
In this paper , we propose a method of web annotation sharing using P2P . Several systems[1][2 ] have been proposed for web annotation sharing . Annotea[2 ] , for example , uses annotation servers for data sharing . On the other hand , our approach is based on P2P architecture , and there is no specific server that manages the whole annotation data . A novel feature of our method is that P2P nodes in the system determine their roles autonomously , and share the annotation data .
2 . WEB ANNOTATION SHARING USING
P2P
2.1 Architecture
Our method , which differs from “ Pure P2P ” , is based on a P2P model in which P2P nodes in the system change their roles autonomously , depending on their network topology or the status of other nodes . Each node in the annotation sharing system has a communication module and an annotation
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . database . A node in the system can update its database , synchronizing events , such as change of annotation data or participation of a new node . 2.2 Three layer data sharing by autonomous determination of role
P2P nodes in the system determine their roles , either a “ normal node ” , a “ primary node ” or a “ peer leader ” ( See Fig 1 ) . Their roles are changed , synchronizing with events , such as participation or withdrawal of a node . Determination and transfer of the role are performed by the following procedures . Here , a “ segment ” means a minimum network topology divided by routers .
( 1 ) Determination of role at participation of node When a new node joins the system , it asks all nodes in the segment that it belongs to about the existence of a primary node using multicast communication .
( cid:127 ) If a primary node responds , the new node is located under the primary node as a normal node , and it performs data synchronization with the primary node .
( cid:127 ) If no primary node responds , the new node becomes a primary node .
A node that has become a primary node asks peer leader candidates , whose addresses are previously known in a user group , using unicast communication , or the node asks an address server ( fixed role ) , which is network reachable , about the existence of a peer leader .
( cid:127 ) If a peer leader responds , the new node is located under the peer leader , and it performs data synchronization with the peer leader .
( cid:127 ) If no peer leader responds , the new node becomes a peer leader .
( 2 ) Transfer of role at withdrawal of node When a primary node withdraws from the system , it sends a role transfer requirement signal to all subordinate normal nodes in the segment that it belongs to . If a normal node responds to the signal , the primary node transfers its role to the normal node .
When a peer leader withdraws from the system , it sends a role transfer requirement signal to all subordinate primary nodes . If a primary node responds to the signal , the peer leader transfers its role to the primary node .
Peer Leader
( Representative of Primary Nodes )
Rise in rank
Transfer of role
Primary Node
( Representative of Normal Nodes )
Rise in rank
Transfer of role
Normal Node
Figure 1 : Category of roles .
Segment A
Segment B
Primary Node
Multicast data transfer
Unicast data transfer
Peer Leader
( Additonal role of Primary Node )
Multicast data transfer
Normal Node
Normal Node
Normal Node
Normal Node
Figure 3 : Example of page in which annotations are added .
Figure 2 : Three layer data sharing by autonomous determination of role .
Data sharing and synchronization between nodes are performed by the following procedure , depending on the network topology ( See Fig 2 ) .
( 1 ) Within segment When annotation data is changed ( added , edited or deleted ) in a node , the node updates its database and sends the difference data to the other nodes in the segment that it belongs to using multicast communication . A node that receives the difference data updates its database .
( 2 ) Between segments A primary node communicates with its peer leader at certain intervals on behalf of the segment that it belongs to , and performs data synchronization with its peer leader . Then , the peer leader sends the difference data to all subordinate primary nodes . 2.3 Description and data management of an notation
Data records of an annotation are shown in Table 1 . When an annotation data is generated , a unique ID in the system is provided . Data synchronization between nodes is performed by comparing annotation ID lists , and then each node exchanges the difference data .
When an annotation is deleted from a node , the node adds a “ delete flag ” into the annotation ID , and it sends the ID with the delete flag to the network . This causes the propagation of the deletion to all the nodes in the system .
Table 1 : Data records of annotation .
URL of page in which annotation is added Location of annotated words in page Annotation ID Delete flag Annotation information
Title , Author , Date , Last update , Description , Semantic label , Access permission
3 .
IMPLEMENTATION
We have implemented the proposed method as an IE browser plug in . A Sample execution of a browser with the plug in is shown in Fig 3 .
Figure 4 : Example of input dialog for annotation .
When users add a new annotation , they select text strings by dragging the mouse , and push the annotation button in the toolbar . Then an input dialog for annotation is opened ( See Fig 4 ) . The input dialog is also available from the pulldown menu that appears by clicking the mouse ’s right button . Texts in which an annotation was added are displayed with a blue marker and an icon . If users click the annotation icon , a display dialog for the annotation is opened . 4 . FUTURE WORK
We will also develop a search function of annotation data based on P2P architecture . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M.R¨oscheisen et al . “ Beyond Browsing : Shared
Comments , SOAPs , Trials , and On line Communities ” , in Proc . of the 3rd WWW Conf . , 1995 .
[ 2 ] J.Kahan et al . “ Annotea : An Open RDF
Infrastructure for Shared Web Annotations ” , in Proc . of the 10th WWW Conf . , pp.623 632 , 2001 .
