AutoTag : A Collaborative Approach to Automated Tag
Assignment for Weblog Posts
Gilad Mishne
ISLA , University of Amsterdam
Kruislaan 403 , 1098SJ Amsterdam , The Netherlands gilad@scienceuvanl
ABSTRACT This paper describes AutoTag , a tool which suggests tags for weblog posts using collaborative filtering methods . An evaluation of AutoTag on a large collection of posts shows good accuracy ; coupled with the blogger ’s final quality control , AutoTag assists both in simplifying the tagging process and in improving its quality .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Systems ] : Systems and Software General Terms Human Factors , Languages Keywords Blogs , tags
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Tagging is an old new method for organizing data by assigning descriptors to documents and other sources of information . These descriptors , or “ tags ” , are typically short textual labels , which provide an easy way to categorize , search , and browse the information they describe . The annotation of documents with keywords is nothing new by itself , but a collaborative form of this method with some unique properties is attracting a lot of attention on the web in recent years . The main characteristics of collaborative tagging differentiating it from traditional keyword annotation are its open vocabulary , non hierarchical nature , and the fact that tags are assigned by authors and users of the information rather than by professional annotators , with no rules or limitations [ 1 , 2 ] . Tagging is particularly popular in some web mediums such as photo sharing websites ( eg , Flickr ) and the blogosphere , where tags are often assigned to weblog posts to facilitate categorization and filtering .
This paper addresses the task of automatic assignment of tags to weblog posts ; while some work on weblog classification exists , we are not aware of published work about tag discovery . To this end , we describe a system—AutoTag— that , given a weblog post , offers a small number of tags which seem useful for it ; the blogger then reviews the suggestions , selecting those which she finds instrumental . More than just simplifying the tagging process , AutoTag also improves its quality : first , by increasing the chance that weblog
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . posts will be tagged in the first place , and second by offering relevant tags that may have not been applied otherwise . This in turn improves the tasks for which tagging is aimed at , providing better search and browse capabilities . 2 . TAG ASSIGNMENT
Our basic approach to automated tag assignment is that of collaborative filtering , or recommender systems [ 3 ] . In a nutshell , a recommender system helps users find desirable products or services by analyzing their profile and matching it with profiles of other users similar to them , or by finding products that are similar to the ones they expressed interest in ; it is assumed that similar users share similar tastes . Amazon , TiVo , Netflix and others are among the many successful applications of commercial recommender systems .
An application of collaborative filtering methods to automated tag discovery becomes clear when the “ user ” and “ product ” concepts are examined from a different angle . In AutoTag , the blog posts themselves take the role of users , and the tags assigned to them function as the products that the users expressed interest in . In traditional recommender systems , similar users are assumed to buy similar products ; AutoTag makes the same assumption , and identifies useful tags for a post by examining tags assigned to similar posts . Just as with traditional recommender systems , the recommendations are then further improved by incorporating external knowledge about the bloggers , the posts , or the tags .
Figure 1 : Flow of information in AutoTag
The different stages of the tag suggestion process in AutoTag are shown in Figure 1 . Once the user supplies a weblog post , posts which are similar to it are identified . Next , the tags assigned to these posts are aggregated , creating a ranked list of likely tags . In the next stage , AutoTag filters and reranks this tag list ; finally , the top ranked tags are offered to the user , who selects the tags to attach to the post . We follow with additional details about each step .
Similar Weblog PostsWeblog PostTag1Tag2Tag3Tag4Tag3Tag1Tag4Write blog entryFind similar postsAggregate tagsFilter and rerank Finding Similar Posts . AutoTag uses Information Retrieval measures to estimate the similarity between weblog posts . In practice , this means a large collection of posts is indexed by an IR engine , and a query generated from the original post is submitted to this engine . The most similar posts are then taken to be the highest ranking ones retrieved from the collection , using some retrieval model .
We experimented with a number of methods for generating queries from a post , including using the entire text of the post and using links in it to locate cocitations . The best results were obtained by using a “ distinctive term ” query : standard corpus comparison methods are first used to derive the most distinctive terms in the vocabulary of a post ( compared to the general vocabulary in the corpus ) ; the top ranking terms are in turn used as the query . A Tag Model . AutoTag uses simple heuristics for composing the ranked list of tags from the top retrieved posts : each tag is scored according to its frequency in the top results . Experimenting with more complex ways of scoring the tags , taking into account the retrieval rank or score , yielded only minor improvements in accuracy . Filtering and Reranking . One clear source of information we have about a blogger is the tags she already used prior to writing the post being analyzed . Therefore , if such previously used tags appear in the ranked list , AutoTag boosts their score by a constant factor . 3 . EVALUATION
For evaluating our method , we used the corpus distributed by Intelliseek for the 3rd Weblogging Workshop.1 The corpus contains 10M weblog posts collected during a period of 3 weeks ; of these , 1.8M posts are tagged , with a total of 2.3M tags . For indexing and retrieval , we used the open source engine Lucene which uses a rather simple vector space retrieval model ; text was stemmed with an English stemmer . Two methods were used to evaluate the effectiveness of the tag suggestion methods . First , we manually examined the tags assigned to a random subset of 30 posts from our collection ; for each tag , we decided whether the tag was indeed a relevant label for the post . This is the preferred method of evaluation , but due to its cost it can only be applied to a small number of posts ; additionally , it is difficult to use non automated methods to tune and improve a system . Because of this , we used an automated method to evaluate a much larger subset of posts : AutoTag was used to tag 6000 of the “ tagged posts ” in our corpus the posts which were assigned tags by their authors ( we used only posts with 3 or more tags ) . Then , AutoTag ’s output was compared to the actual post tags . To account for minor differences in tags ( “ blogs ” and “ blogging ” ) , we used string distance to compare the tags rather than exact string match . Even so , the automated precision scores are lower than manual ones , since tags which are useful for a post but were not originally used by its author are mistakenly taken to be incorrect . To demonstrate this , we evaluated the small test set with the automated method as well , resulting in substantially lower scores ; this indicates that the actual performance of AutoTag on the large set is likely to be much better than reported by the automated evaluation .
For the manual evaluation , we measured precision at 10 : the fraction of tags out of the top 10 suggestions by AutoTag which were judged as appropriate for the post by a human ;
1http://wwwblogpulsecom/www2006 workshop only the first 10 results are checked because it is assumed that users are unwilling to examine long result lists . For the automated evaluation , we measured recall at 10 as well : the fraction of tags offered by AutoTag in the top 10 suggestions which were also assigned by the blogger out of the total number of tags assigned by her .
Test Set 30 posts 30 posts 6000 posts Automated
Evaluation Automated Manual
Precision@10 Recall@10
0.38 0.59 0.40
0.47 — 0.49
Table 1 : Auto tagging accuracy
Results are shown in Table 1 ; an example of tags offered by AutoTag is given in Table 2 . On average , 4 to 6 suggestions out of AutoTag ’s top 10 suggestions are either considered useful by the blogger , or were actually used by her for the given post . Cursory examination of posts for which AutoTag scores low shows many non English posts ( for which much less data exists in the corpus , entailing lower success of datadriven methods ) , and many tags which are highly personal and used by few bloggers ( such as names of family members ) . http://wwwstillhqcom/diary/000959html
On pitching products to bloggers Anil comments on how to pitch a product to him as a blogger , and makes good suggestions as Lindsay agrees before getting distracted by how this applies to press releases . I have to wonder though how much of this promotional pitching actually happens . I certainly haven’t ever had a product pitched to me for this site . I’ve had people pitch advertising , and other spammy things , but not products . Does it really happen to us normal people bloggers ? Suggested tags : PR , blogging , weblogs , marketing , net , gripes , email , small business life , Anil Dash , PR pitching Original tags : blog , pitch , product , marketing , communications
Table 2 : Sample tags suggested for a post
4 . CONCLUSIONS
We proposed and evaluated AutoTag , a tool for tagging weblog posts based on a collaborative filtering approach . AutoTag offers suggestions for tags based on tags assigned to other , similar posts ; the final decision about a tag is left to the blogger . Despite a relatively small corpus for this type of task , AutoTag shows good results , and has the potential to benefit both the bloggers and others making use of tags assigned to weblog posts .
The different components of AutoTag provide fertile ground for further work : identifying effective ways to generate queries from a post and successful retrieval models to use ; improving the aggregation of tags from the retrieved posts ; and various methods for filtering and reranking the lists produced by AutoTag . In addition to the collaborative approaches described in this paper , we are currently investigating a “ local ” approach to tag suggestion , in which suggestions for tags are made without access to the entire blogosphere as is the case with AutoTag , but using deeper analysis of the contents of the post and the blog it belongs to . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Golder and B . A . Huberman . The structure of collaborative tagging systems . J . Inf . Science , 2006 .
[ 2 ] A . Mathes . Folksonomies : Cooperative classification and communication through shared metadata . Computer Mediated Communication , 2004 .
[ 3 ] P . Resnick and H . R . Varian . Recommender systems ( special section ) . Comm . of the ACM , 40(3 ) , 1997 .
