Generation of Multimedia TV News Contents for WWW
Hsin Chia Fu
Department of computer science National Chiao Tung University Hsinchu , Taiwan , 300 R O C
( 886 ) 3 571 2121
Yeong Y . Xu
Department of computer science National Chiao Tung University Hsinchu , Taiwan , 300 R O C
( 886 ) 3 573 1930
C . L . Tseng
Department of computer science National Chiao Tung University Hsinchu , Taiwan , 300 R O C
( 886 ) 3 573 1930 hcfu@csnctuedutw yyxu@csienctuedutw tsengcl@csienctuedutw
¤ Generating keywords and titles for each news stories ¤ Interactively displaying hierarchical TV news contents ¤ Providing users for searching related news stories .
3 . SYSTEM DESIGN The proposed hierarchical news content processing system consists three modules : ( 1 ) TV news acquisition , ( 2 ) news content analysis , and ( 3 ) user interface for news query and search . The major task of the acquisition module is to record TV news programs in proper video format , and fetch related news documents from Internet web . Content analysis module receives and segments the recorded news video into news story units , and then extracts keywords and news titles from each story . Providing a friendly searching and browsing environment for retrieving interested news is the task of user interface module . Figure 1 shows the architecture and data flow of the proposed TV news indexing system .
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a system we have developed for automatic TV News video indexing that successfully combines results from the fields of speaker verification , acoustic analysis , very large vocabulary video OCR , content based sampling of video , information retrieval , dialogue systems , and ASF media delivery over IP . The prototype of TV news content processing Web was completed in July 2003 . Since then , the system has been up running continuously . Up to the date when this message is written ( March 27 , 2006 ) , the system records and analyzes the prime time evening news program in Taiwan every day of these years , except a few power failure shutdown . The TV news web is at http://14011321664/NewsQuery/mainasp
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL ] : Online Information Services – Commercial services , Data sharing , Web based services
General Terms Documentation , Design , Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords TV news , video OCR , information retrieval , content analysis .
1 . THE EMERGENCE OF WEB TV NEWS The fierce competition among TV news programs make the news contents become more and more fruitful . However , people may not be patient enough to wait for the arrival of favored news events while a long series of uninterested TV news are on the air . Therefore , news on demand becomes an attracting service [ 1 ] . Since , some TV news programs are broadcasted around the clock , manually indexing news video into Web contents can be a boring and tedious work . Therefore , automatically indexing news stories becomes an emergent issue for multimedia information processing . Increasing computing power and gradually maturing multimedia technologies provide a powerful working environment for automatically semantically meaningful units such as stories and summaries , and then into hierarchical contents . segmenting news video into
2 . GOALS OF THE SYSTEM
In general , an automated hierarchical TV news web system needs to have at least the following features :
¤ Segmenting a TV news program into story based units
Copyright is held by IW3C2 . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , UK .
Figure 1 . The architecture and data flow of the proposed TV news indexing and browsing system .
The most technology intense part in the proposed web system is the TV news index generator [ 2 ] . Figure 2 depicts the processing flow of the indexing generator . At first , a TV news program is captured and encoded into stream video . In the meantime , a shot detector is used to segment the streaming video into shots for keyframe generation . Within a shot , speaker identification techniques [ 3 ] are then applied to detect anchor frames . Each closed caption on the anchor frames is then extracted and recognized by video OCR techniques [ 4 ] . By matching the characters from closed caption with news document retrieved from Internet , the proposed system can construct links between TV news stories and Internet news stories .
4 . SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION A prototype of the multimedia TV news WWW has been implemented on 1+N personal computers , where N is the number of TV News channels . The database and web server are installed in one ( 1 ) machine , called WebDB . The rest N PC ’s are called Indexers , which are used to generate news index , key frames , etc . All these PCs contain a Pentium III or higher grade CPU , with at least 256 MB of RAM . In addition , a database server is installed in WebDB as a news data manager . The Indexer automatically records prime time TV news programs every day , and in the mean time , segmenting and indexing news stories are also processed in parallel . Then , the Indexer produces hierarchical news contents , include news video , keywords , titles , and time code of a story .
Figure 2 . The flow of TV news indexing generation .
5 . SYSTEM DEMONSTRATION A snapshot of the TV news browsing results is shown in Figure 3 . A user can select a particular or a favor channel and dates at the pull down menu . Then , click the browse button to start the browsing processes . The lower left panel will show the news titles of the selected TV program . Key frames of each news story are shown at the lower right panel at the same time . ( S)he can select an interested news story by clicking on the news title , or on a keyframe , to activate the playing of the corresponding video clip and the displaying of the key frames of the selected news story . In addition , keyword query is also available in the user interface window .
6 . CONCLUDING REMARKS The prototype of the TV news WWW was completed in July 2003 . Since then , the system has been up running continuously . Up to the date when this report is written ( March 27 , 2006 ) , the system records and analyzes CTS evening News program daily , except a few short shutdown due to power failure . Recently , we have setup a new WWW site , http://14011321664/NewsQuery/PDAasp for PDA browsing .
Figure 3 . A sample of the TV news web page .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported in part by the National Science Council under Grant NSC 93 2213 E009 060 . The authors sincerely thank to the faculty and students associated with the Neural Network Multimedia laboratory of National Chiao Tung University for their suggestions and contributions . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Merialdo , B . , Lee , K . T . , Luparello , D . , and Roudaire , J .
Automatic construction of personalized tv news programs . In Proceedings of the seventh ACM international conference on Multimedia ( Part 1 ) , ACM Press , 1999 . 8 . , 323 331 .
[ 2 ] Chen , YH , Tseng , CL , Cheng , SS , Fang , TM , Chan ,
HY , and Fu , HC On the scene classification for the automated generation of hierarchical contents from broadcasting TV news . In : Proceedings of KES’02 , Milan , Italy 2002 .
[ 3 ] Cheng , S . , Chen , Y . , Tseng , C . , Fu , HC , and Pao , HT A self growing probabilistic decision based neural network with applications to anchor/speaker identification . In : Proceedings of HIS’02 , Santiago , Chile , 2002 .
[ 4 ] Sato , T . , Kanade , T . , Hughes , EK , Smith , MA : Video optical character recognition for digital news archive . In : Proc . Workshop on Content Based Access of Image and Video Databases , Los Alamitos , CA ( 1998 ) 52–60 .
