Requirements for Multimedia Document Enrichment Fabio Ciravegna Ajay Chakravarthy University of Sheffield University of Sheffield
Vitaveska Lanfranchi University of Sheffield
Regent Court , 211 Portobello Street ,
Sheffield , S1 4P , United Kingdom
Regent Court , 211 Portobello Street ,
Sheffield , S1 4P , United Kingdom
Regent Court , 211 Portobello Street ,
Sheffield , S1 4P , United Kingdom
+44 114 2221945
+44 114 2221945
+44 114 2221945 achakravarthy@dcsshefacuk vlanfranchi@dcsshefacuk fciravegna@dcsshefacuk
ABSTRACT Nowadays a large and growing percentage of information is stored in various multimedia formats . In order for multimedia information to be efficiently utilised by users , it is very important to add suitable metadata . In this paper we will present AKTiveMedia , a tool for enriching multimedia documents with semantic information .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.5 [ Information Systems ] Information Interfaces And Presentation General Terms Human Factors
Keywords Semantic annotation interfaces , multimedia enrichment .
1 . INTRODUCTION Nowadays a large and growing amount of information is stored in various multimedia formats , such as images , video , audio . Much research has been undertaken into the efficient and effective storage , access , usage and retrieval of textual information . Semantic annotation and enrichment has been proposed as a way to make information available in documents for effective and efficient use . For example , several activities focused on text annotation as a way to enrich a textual document , making it machine readable and also accessible to people [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 8 ] ; other projects focus more on annotation of images [ 4 , 5 ] . However , we believe that the separation of text and images is artificial and there is a real need for enabling true multimedia annotations that go across the division of text and images . As a matter of fact , a great deal of information , like websites , intranets or company reports often contain both text and images that are interrelated : usually the text in the document contains references to the image or describes it . It is therefore crucial to develop strategies and interfaces for cross media knowledge creation and sharing that will make these references explicit , increasing the value of the document itself . In the rest of this paper we will outline some requirements for multimedia document enrichment and then we will present AKTiveMedia , a tool for enriching multimedia documents that meets those requirements .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 .
2 . REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTIMEDIA DOCUMENT ENRICHMENT Different requirements can be identified for multimedia document enrichment in the various phases of the knowledge production , that is when the document is annotated ( ie knowledge acquiring ) and when the annotations are used to share the produced knowledge ( ie knowledge sharing and reuse ) . First all is important to outline which are the dimensions of the content that can be identified and enriched with annotations : ( 1 ) Metadata , that can be associated to the multimedia document , like creation date , time , author , and so on ; ( 2 ) Content : the annotation should semantically describe the content of the image or document so to make it available for retrieval . For example , marking up elements in a picture ( eg the person in the picture is Sam ) . ( 3 ) Contextual information , that is information about an instance in a precise time and occasion ( eg Sam is awaiting a taxi in Southampton ) ; ( 4 ) General knowledge , about the instances annotated , typically immutable knowledge , for example Sam was born on 26 07 1974 ; ( 5 ) Relations between the identified instance and other instances in the same document or in other document . Relations may be cross media , eg that may interrelate what is presented in the text with part of an image , eg “ Fabio ” mentioned in the text is_employer_of Sam that is the person in the picture ; ( 5 ) Comments about the instances or the information or the relations ( eg “ This is an artistic picture , in reality Sam doesn’t have pink hair ” ) . Following [ 6 ] we identified two main types of annotations that the content : ( 1 ) Ontology driven can be used annotations can be used to make available the document content or its context . They empower better retrieval and reasoning ; [ 1 ] and connect to semantically enabled services that are compatible with the ontology . ( 2 ) Free text annotations ( or comments ) add contextual knowledge to the document not explicitly mentioned within the content ( often referred to as braindump or freetext tagging , eg folksonomies ) . The task of annotating a document using an ontology may be tiresome [ 1 ] and overwhelming : usually ontologies are complex and users may find difficult to remember all the available concepts and to use them properly . As previous literature proved [ 7 ] , when dealing with vast quantities of information users may want to zoom and visualise only the sections they are interested in , or filter out what is not relevant for the current task . A main requirement for annotation of multimedia documents is therefore to make the ontology “ disappear ” , ie creating a more userfriendly annotation methodology can hide the complexity of an ontology whilst still maintaining its expressivity . Moreover it is possible to distinguish two main styles when annotating images : to enrich
( 1 ) Whole image annotation : the entire image is annotated ; this can be done for the single image or for image collections ; ( 2 ) Regional annotation : different regions of the image are annotated . The two different styles of image annotation are accomplished using both ontology based annotations and free text annotations . n the phase of knowledge sharing and reuse the annotations and comments inserted by are used by the system to provide a userfriendly interface . A first is to use the already acquired knowledge to provide suggestions to the user while annotating : this will make the annotation task more user friendly [ 1 , 2 , 8 ] . 3 . AKTIVE MEDIA AKTive Media is a user centric system for multimedia document enrichment , developed at the University of Sheffield , designed to meet the above mentioned requirements ; it uses Semantic Web and language technologies for acquiring , storing and reusing knowledge . The aim is to provide a seamless interface that guides the user through the process , reducing the complexity of the task . Languages technologies and a web service architecture are adopted to provide a context specific annotation mechanism that uses suggestions inferred from both the ontology and from the previously stored annotations to help the user : the ontology is prefiltered to present only the top level concepts ( the most generic ones ) ; when the users identify an instance of a top level entity the system suggests the possible relevant sub entities , eg when annotating a region of an image as a “ part ” , the system suggests all the possible parts present in the ontology for that engine and the user can select the right one . The same happens for relations , again inferred from the ontology and suggested to the user on the base of the concept selected : for example , when the part has been chosen , the user can select a “ has_fault ” relation and drag and drop the text in the document that describes the fault ( see Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 AKTiveMedia interface
When an instance has been identified it is possible to add free text comments , to highlights findings or opinions , or to state some generic or contextual information about the instance , eg findings on why the failure happened . The produced knowledge is then used as a way to establish connections with and to navigate the information space : when the user annotates a part of an image as a “ sand damage ” on a “ turbine ” the system uses those annotations to retrieve other related images and documents . New relationships can then be established with the found knowledge , eg the damage can be related to other previous cases , and through free text comments the relationship may be made explicit ( eg this type of failure happens constantly on this blade in hot conditions , and this is proved by document x ) . AKTiveMedia architecture uses a two steps persistence model to save the annotations : 1 ) the annotations are fist saved in a local repository , 2 ) then they are imported by a web service into a RDF central repository . 4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was carried out within the AKT project , sponsored by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council ( grant GR/N15764/01 ) and the X Media project ( grant FP626978 ) , sponsored by the EU IST Framework 6 . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Ciravegna F . , Dingli A . , Petrelli D . and Wilks Y . UserSystem Cooperation in Document Annotation based on Information Extraction . the 13th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management ( EKAW02 ) , 1 4 Oct 2002 Spain , Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2473 , Springer Verlag
In Proceedings of
[ 2 ] Handschuh S . , Staab S . , and Ciravegna F S CREAM Semiautomatic CREAtion of Metadata . In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management ( EKAW02 ) , 1 4 Oct 2002 Spain , Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2473 , Springer Verlag
[ 3 ] Kahan J . , Koivunen M . , Prud'Hommeaux E . , and Swick R Annotea : An Open RDF Infrastructure for Shared Web Annotations . International Conference , Hong Kong , 2001 . the WWW10
In Proc . of
[ 4 ] Kang , and
H . and
B . Visualization Methods for Personal Photo Collections : Browsing PhotoFinder Proc . IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo ( ICME2000 ) , New York City , New York .
Shneiderman ,
Searching in the
[ 5 ] Kuchinsky A . , Pering C . , Creech ML , Freeze D . , Serra B . , Gwizdka J . , FotoFile : A Consumer Multimedia Organization and Retrieval System , Proceedings of ACM CHI99 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , 496503 , 1999 .
[ 6 ] Lanfranchi V . , Ciravegna F . , Petrelli D . Semantic Web based Document : Editing and Browsing in AktiveDoc , Proceedings of the 2nd European Semantic Web Conference , Heraklion , Greece , May 29 June 1 , 2005
[ 7 ] Shneiderman B . The eyes have it : A task by data type taxonomy In Proceedings IEEE Visual Languages , pages 336 343 , Boulder , CO , Sept 1996 visualizations , information for
[ 8 ] Vargas Vera M . , Motta E . , Domingue J . , Lanzoni M . , Stutt A . , Ciravegna F . : MnM : Ontology driven semiautomatic or automatic support for semantic markup . In Proceedings of the 13th Int Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management , EKAW02 . Springer Verlag , 2002
