Topic Oriented Query Expansion for Web Search
∗
Shao Chi Wang and Yuzuru Tanaka Meme Media Laboratory , Graduate School of
Information Science and Technology , Hokkaido University
Kita 13 , Nishi 8 , Kita Ku Sapporo , Hokkaido , Japan 060 8628
{wang , tanaka}@memehokudaiacjp
ABSTRACT The contribution of this paper includes three folders : ( 1 ) To introduce a topic oriented query expansion model based on the Information Bottleneck theory that classify terms into distinct topical clusters in order to find out candidate terms for the query expansion . ( 2 ) To define a term term similarity matrix that is available to improve the term ambiguous problem . ( 3 ) To propose two measures , intracluster and intercluster similarities , that are based on proximity between the topics represented by two clusters in order to evaluate the retrieval effectiveness . Results of several evaluation experiments in Web search exhibit the average intracluster similarity was improved for the gain of 79.1 % while the average intercluster similarity was decreased for the loss of 360 % Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information search and retrieval—clustering , query formulation , retrieval models General Terms Theory , Experimentation , Measurement Keywords query expansion , topic oriented , information bottleneck , termterm similarity matrix , intracluster similarity , intercluster similarity 1 . One of the problems in selecting candidate terms for the query expansion strategy is the ambiguity of the original query term[2 ] . In the current research , we suppose that each query term can be separated into multiple concepts , and the identical concepts of a term shall be grouped into an identical cluster . In each cluster , a bundle of terms will keep a unique topic that only relates to one concept of the original query . In the cluster to which the query term concepts of our concern belong , other terms can be selected as candidates of the query expansion . We call this strategy “ topic oriented query expansion ” . We employ the Information Bottleneck ( IB ) method[5 ] for clustering purposes . Before performing the clustering technique , we first propose a new definition for the construction of a term term similarity matrix . The
INTRODUCTION
∗The first author is now in Yahoo Japan Corporation
E mail : swang@yahoo corp.jp
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . current work is based on the problem of word sense disambiguation[3][6 ] and its probabilistic solutions [ 7][8 ] . Furthermore , we propose intracluster and intercluster similarity measures to evaluate the relevance of the topic of the cluster associated with the candidate terms respectively to the retrieved documents in the cluster itself , and to the documents in the other clusters . The result shows that the clusters obtained by our method have higher intracluster cohesiveness and lower intercluster cohesiveness .
Figure 1 : The topic oriented query expansion model
2 . TOPIC ORIENTED QUERY EXPANSION
MODEL
Figure 1 describes the outline of the topic oriented query expansion model which consists of five steps . They are , ( 1 ) to collect pages that come from incoming links . ( 2 ) to extract extended anchor texts . ( 3 ) to construct a term term similarity matrix . ( 4 ) to establish a topic oriented cluster . ( 5 ) to rank terms . The first two steps can be readily achieved . In the following sections , we will introduce the three remaining steps . 2.1 Constructing a term term similarity ma trix
The conventional term term similarity matrix of reference[1 ] was redefined as follows : Definition 1 . The frequency of a term ti ( ti = qk , qk denotes a term of the query q ) in a mini document dj , is referred to as fti,j . At the same time , we suppose that a term qk of the query q is of divergent concepts when it appears in different mini documents . Hence , a query term qk in a minidocument dl is substituted by its concept ck,l(l ∈ j ) and its frequency is referred to as fck,l,j . A term document matrix is represented as m = ( mrj ) , where mrj = fti,jorfck,l,j . Here , the number of rows r is equal to |TL| + |Ck,L|(ti ∈ TL , ck,l ∈ Ck,L ) and the number of columns is |DL| , where TL denotes a term set that exclude the query terms , Ck,L the concept set of query k , and DL the document collection .
P k∈|q|
WWWWWW・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・Extract extended anchor textsConstruct a term term matrixIB ClusteringTerms rankingQueryExpansionPages from Incoming linksRetrieved pagesWWWWWW・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・Extract extended anchor textsConstruct a term term matrixIB ClusteringTerms rankingQueryExpansionPages from Incoming linksRetrieved pages Let mt be the transpose of m . The matrix s = m mt defines the local term term similarity matrix .
In this new matrix , we suppose that if a term appears in different documents , it will have different meanings . We then count the frequency of each concept rather than the term itself . After performing clustering , the identical mutually equivalent meanings of a term will be aggregated into the same cluster because this term is used in the same sense to describe a common topic . Note that we use an extended anchor text as a mini document . 2.2 Establishing a topic oriented cluster We employ sIB ( sequential Information Bottleneck)[4 ] to cluster the extracted terms in the proposed model . The input information structure is the obtained term term similarity matrix in Section 21 2.3 Ranking terms Based on the clustering results , we propose a conditional entropy to rank terms as follows . e(y|t ) = − p(t)p(y|t)log2p(y|t )
( 1 )
X t
The variables X(x ∈ X ) and Y ( y ∈ Y ) denote the same term collection . The formula ( 1 ) represents the probability distribution of each term being yielded in the obtained cluster . Table 1 : Term clustering(the conventional definition ) Cluster 1 business
Cluster 2
Cluster 4
Cluster 5 mining people offer
Cluster 3 committee chairman thesis member advisory discovery tip workshop project knowledge clustering research team development localization interface directory acquistion mine mission ma record risk management proceeding marketing goverment tree decision student conference consulting job expert library technique these data storm web link model suite intelligence software traffic
Table 2 : Term clustering(the proposed definition ) Cluster 1 Cluster 5 mining(8 ) mining(9 ) mining(8 ) mining(6 ) mining(10 )
Cluster 2
Cluster 3
Cluster 4
Web(8 ) data software research
Web(5 ) offer clustering
Web(5 ) business stand people technology
Web(2 ) perspective suite find
Web(6 ) ma track information text conjunction knowledge workshop link tip end risk database intelligence ole tree storm server expert system chairman committee advisory localization member retrieval review support format 3 . EXPERIMENT AND EVALUATION 3.1 Description of experiments Here , we report an example of searching Web documents with a query “ Web mining ” . We picked up top 10 valid pages and set the maximum number of the incoming links that point to one core document to 100 . Tables 1 and 2 show the top 10 terms corresponding to the conventional and the proposed definitions . Note that the number in the bracket after each query term denotes the number of its occurrences in each cluster . 3.2 Description of evaluation The intracluster and intercluster similarities which are based on proximity between topics are described as follows . q ( i ∈ C , C is the set of clusters ) associated A term vector V i with the expanded query is defined by the equation ( 2 ) and ( j ∈ C ) is defined by the equation a document vector V j dk
( 3 ) . wql and wdkl denote the weights of the terms associated with the expanded query and the document , respectively . N the set of the documents .
T erm vectors :
Document vectors : q = {wq1 , wq2 , , wqn}i ( i ∈ C ) V i = {wdk1 , wdk2 , , wdkn}j ( j ∈ C , k ∈ N )
V j dk
( 2 )
( 3 )
The average intracluster and intercluster similarities are defined as follows :
Average intracluster similarity : cosine(V i q , V j dk
)
( 4 )
X
1 |C| i=j∈C
X X k∈N
X
Average intercluster similarity :
1
|C| · ( |C| − 1 ) i,j∈C,i= k∈N cosine(V i q , V j dk
)
( 5 )
The larger intracluster similarity and the smaller intercluster similarity correspond to the higher cohesiveness of the cluster , namely the higher topic proximity of the retrieved documents in the cluster . The results are exhibited in Table 3 . In comparison with the conventional definition , the average intracluster similarity of the proposed definition is improved for the gain of 79.1 % whereas the average intercluster similarity is decreased for the loss of 360 % This shows that the new definition of the term term similarity matrix results in significantly better performance than the conventional one in the topic oriented query expansion model .
Table 3 : Average intracluster and intercluster similarities
Intracluster similarity Intercluster similarity
Old Definition New definition
1.101 1.972
1.038 0.763
4 . CONCLUSIONS In order to develop a topic oriented query expansion strategy , we have proposed a new definition of the term term similarity matrix to employ the IB clustering technique , and two measures to evaluate the relevance . Experimental results and evaluations have verified a significant improvement obtained by the proposed query expansion model . 5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The work presented in this paper has been supported by the 21st Century COE ( Center of Excellence ) Program of Japan Society of the Promotion of Science ( JSPS ) . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B Y Ricardo and R N Berthier . Modern
Information Retrieval , 1999 .
[ 2 ] E N Efthimiadis . Query expansion , 1996 . [ 3 ] M . Sanderson . Word sense disambiguation and information retrieval , 1994 .
[ 4 ] N . Slonim et al Unsupervised document classification using sequential information maximization , 2002 .
[ 5 ] N . Tishby et al . The information bottleneck method ,
1999 .
[ 6 ] S . Hinrich . Automatic word sense discrimination ,
1998 .
[ 7 ] T . Hofmann . Probabilistic latent semantic indexing ,
1999 .
[ 8 ] V . Lavrenko and W . B . Croft . Relevance based language models , 2001 .
