Integrating Ecoinformatics Resources on the Semantic Web
Cynthia Sims Parr csparr@umbc.edu
Andriy Parafiynyk andr1@umbc.edu
Joel Sachs jsachs@umbc.edu
Li Ding dingli@umbcedu
Sandor Dornbush sandor1@umbc.edu
Tim Finin finin@umbc.edu
Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering
University of Maryland Baltimore County
Baltimore , MD 21250 USA
David Wang
Dept . of Computer Science
University of Maryland
College Park , MD , 20742 USA
Tw7@csumdedu
ABSTRACT We describe ELVIS ( the Ecosystem Location Visualization and Information System ) , a suite of tools for constructing food webs for a given location . We express both ELVIS input and output data in OWL , thereby enabling its integration with other semantic web resources . In particular , we describe using a Triple Shop application to answer SPARQL queries from a collection of semantic web documents . This is an end to end case study of the semantic web ’s utility for ecological and environmental research . Categories and Subject Descriptors H . Information Systems H.4 Information System Applications H4m miscellaneous General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Human Standardization ,
Factors ,
Keywords Food webs – Ecological forecasting – Semantic web – Ontologies – Invasive Species – Biodiversity – Service Oriented Design
1 . INTRODUCTION SPIRE ( Semantic Prototypes in Research Ecoinformatics http://spireumbcedu ) is a distributed , interdisciplinary research project tasked with building semantic web prototypes for invasive species science . Our main integrating suite of tools is ELVIS ( the Ecosystem Location Visualization Information System ) . ELVIS is motivated by the belief that food web structure plays a role in the success or failure of potential species few ecosystems have been the subject of empirical food web studies , response teams are typically unable to get quick answers to questions like “ what are likely prey and predator species of the invader in the new environment ? ” The core data has been integrated from publicly available sources and is now available on the semantic web . We have constructed a platform for investigating multiple algorithms for food web prediction . Further , by exposing item level data through several rich sets of ecological and evolutionary ontologies , and by providing these tools as web services , we enable integration with other semantic web/web 2.0 applications , such as Swoogle . We developed a “ shopping cart ” application , Triple Shop , which invasions . Because very
Allan Hollander
Information Center for the Environment
University of California Davis
Davis , CA , 95616 USA adhollander@ucdavis.edu allows a user to select semantic web documents , and to issue SPARQL queries over their union . Thus , we are able to integrate diverse ecoinformatics data in response to ad hoc queries . 1.1 Related Work Previous work on data integration in ecological informatics includes online data repositories [ 2 ] and workflow [ 4 ] ontologies . Metadata allows only the discovery of possibly interesting datasets and does not provide the means to harvest the data itself . Individual food web researchers maintain and share their own digital data archives , in individualized data formats , though more accessible standardized archives are beginning to emerge [ 1 ] . There ( eg http://wwwissgorg/ ) but they are not automatically integrated with information about non invasive species with which they interacy ; nor is there web based support for modeling an invasive species , anywhere . are good databases on invasive species
2 . ELVIS The task of providing food web information for a user specified location breaks into two distinct problems : constructing a species list for a given location ; and constructing a food web from a given species list ( and habitat information ) .
Figure 1 . Nile Tilapia , an invader in Florida ecosystems , is predicted to eat algae and have no potential predators . Organisms predicted to be nearby in the food web ( to the right of algae ) could be impacted by or mediate the introduction of this competitor .
2.1 Species List Constructor Our goal is to allow a user to input a location , and get back a species list for that location . This is a hard problem , typically adhoc , and relying on expert knowledge . There are , in general , three kinds of information that can be used to generate a species list : ( i ) park locations , eg from specimen descriptions in museums and herbariums ; and ( iii ) distribution inventories ; ( ii ) point instance data ( collectively referred to as semantic web documents ) along a variety of parameters . Once documents are returned , a user can select certain of them for inclusion into her “ Triple Shop ” , a sort of shopping cart for RDF triples . We have built a stand alone version of the Triple Shop , which allows a user to specify the URLs of arbitrary semantic web documents , and to issue SPARQL queries against the union of those documents . 3.1 Using the Triple Shop to Integrate Food Web and Natural History Data ELVIS illustrates the potential of the semantic web to support rapid querying of distributed scientific databases for a variety of scenarios . For example ( Figure 3 ) : Determine known predatorprey relationships among an invader and a specific group of native species in a particular habitat , as reported in previous studies .
Figure 3 . SPARQL query on ETHAN and SpireEcoConcepts OWL documents . 4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported by NSF ITR 0326460 and matching funds received from USGS Nat . Bio . Information Infrastructure . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Dunne , J . A . The network structure of food webs . In : Ecological Networks : Linking Structure to Dynamics in Food Webs , eds . Pascual , M . and Dunne , J . A . Oxford University Press , 2005pp 27 86 .
[ 2 ] Jones , M . B . ; Berkley , C . ; Bojilova , J . ; Schildhauer ,
M . P . 2001 . Managing scientific metadata . IEEE Internet Computing . Vol : 5(5 ) . Pages 59 68 .
[ 3 ] Li Ding et al . , "Swoogle : A Search and Metadata Engine for the Semantic Web" , Proceedings of the Thirteenth ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management , November 2004 .
[ 4 ] Ludaescher , B . et al . 2004 . Scientific workflow management and the Kepler system . Concurrency and Computation : Practice and Experience . maps generated by applying statistical techniques to point locations . We are integrating all of the above for California , and expect that the ontologies and synthesis strategies we have developed will apply to other states , and enable ELVIS to quickly spread beyond California . 2.2 Food Web Constructor The Food Web Constructor ( FWC ) uses empirically known food web links to predict food web links not yet recorded . A user can choose which food web studies to use for prediction or exclude from 257 datasets we compiled from previously digitized literature . Taxa can be entered several different ways : simple text lists , XML files , or food web number . In this latter case we seek to reconstruct feeding links based on the rest of the database and can therefore assess the success rate of the different algorithms or model parameters . Each suspected link is reported , together with references to supporting evidence . Summary statistics of the food web are also reported . 2.3 Evidence Provider
Figure 2 . The Evidence Provider allows a user to drill down on a specific link to see the evidence for it .
Figure 2 shows the evidence for a predicted trophic link – namely , the actual link that was observed , the study in which it was published , and the relationship between the species in the observed link and the predicted link . 2.4 Technical Approach The Species List Constructor interacts with web services that provide a variety of species information . Our current Food Web Constructor algorithm uses to weight evidence supporting or links between organisms . All data input , output , and taxonomies for Food Web Constructor and Evidence Provider are available in OWL on demand . Calculations are performed on data residing in MySQL databases . Scripts generate OWL documents from Animal Diversity Web the ETHAN ontology . The triple shop is currently implemented using the joseki ( http://wwwjosekiorg/ ) 3 . Swoogle and Triple Shop Swoogle ( Google for the Semantic Web ) is our semantic web search engine [ 3 ] . It allows users to search for both ontologies and
( http://wwwanimaldiversityweborg ) via taxonomic distances failing to support
Copyright is held by IW3C2 . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , UK .
