DiTaBBu Automating the Production of Time based
Hypermedia Content
Rui Lopes
LaSIGE/University of Lisbon Campo Grande , Edifício C6 1749 016 Lisboa , Portugal rlopes@difculpt
Lu´ıs Carric¸o
LaSIGE/University of Lisbon Campo Grande , Edifício C6 1749 016 Lisboa , Portugal lmc@difculpt
Carlos Duarte
LaSIGE/University of Lisbon Campo Grande , Edifício C6
Lisboa , Portugal cad@difculpt
ABSTRACT We present DiTaBBu , Digital Talking Books Builder , a framework for automatic production of time based hypermedia for the Web , focusing on the Digital Talking Books domain . Delivering Digital Talking Books collections to a wide range of users is an expensive task , as it must take into account each user profile ’s different needs , therefore authoring should be dismissed in favour of automation . With DiTaBBu , we enable automated content delivery in several playback platforms , targeted to specific user needs , featuring powerful navigation capabilities over the content . DiTaBBu can also be used as testbed for prototyping novel capabilities , through its flexible extension mechanisms .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H52 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : User Interfaces ; H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/ Hypermedia ; I72 [ Document and Text Processing ] : Document Preparation
General Terms Design , Human Factors .
Keywords Hypermedia , Digital Talking Books , DiTaBBu , Automatic presentation generation , Multimodality , Accessibility .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
As the world switches from analog to digital media , blind or print disabled persons have the chance to access richer talking books , through a larger feature set and better sound quality , in comparison to analog talking books ( ie analog audio tapes ) . As such , the Digital Talking Books ( DTBs ) specification [ 3 ] appears as a solution for information technology targeted to visually impaired persons , based on subsets of XHTML and SMIL [ 4 ] . DTBs can also be a base for production of rich DTBs [ 1 ] , where new multimedia content and rich navigation capabilities are incorporated into the main content . These can be targeted to different user groups : visually impaired users can benefit from audio only books navigation features ; partially sighted users will have
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 22–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . an increased user experience through visual book presentation enhancement ; reading or writing disabled persons ( eg children ) can learn how to read , spell and speak correctly ; users in constrained environments benefit from alternative book versions , such as audio centred books for situations where visual focusing is hard ( eg while travelling by train ) . Based on each user group , different content features should be made available in a rich DTB , such as full audio and text , advanced navigation control , bookmarks , highlights and annotations . Such diversity must be reflected into a DTB player and dealt in design time [ 2 ] ( eg cues for audio tracks , multimodal inputs , etc ) Lastly , to increase rich DTB availability , different devices and platforms should be targeted by production frameworks .
Having such diversity on rich DTB targeting , for an immense available corpora it is unfeasible to author them by hand . Current DTB automated production is based on textto speech technologies , resulting in ambiguous interpretation of textual content [ 6 ] and low quality DTBs delivery . Web based multimedia presentation engines [ 8 ] are capable of delivering limited DTBs , as these engines do not cope with dynamic layout flow ( as DTBs are typically text based ) .
As such , rich DTBs should be produced automatically , by specifying high level processing tasks accordingly to each target user group , enabling consistent book collections production . Therefore , a set of requirements must be taken into including : provide a separation between book ’s account , content and reusable UI specifications ; integrate content along a timeline ; cope with different input sources and output formats ; lastly , allow different tasks to be performed by different users ( ie a digital library maintainer selects content and triggers production , a designer specifies production profiles , a developer creates processing components ) .
2 . DITABBU FRAMEWORK
DiTaBBu has been created as a framework for modular production of DTBs , in a fully automated process . It is composed by four conceptual stages ( as seen on figure 1 ) : structure repurpose , output format definition , interaction , and presentation . Each stage has a specific set of processing steps available ( defined in XSLT through XML pipeline technologies [ 5] ) , used to perform transformations over an initial content , towards book final output .
The structure repurposing stage is responsible for different structure manipulation tasks : content normalization , structure extraction , and granularity control . Content normalization allows supporting different input content formats ( eg PDF , XHTML , etc ) The normalized content is defined by to be available on an HTML+TIME player ( Internet Explorer 6 ) , with rich navigation mechanisms , synchronization presentation and complete presentation profile . The second version was targeted to a minimal playback platform ( SMIL was the chosen output format ) . Content structures were trimmed down to paragraphs . No navigation mechanisms were integrated , albeit displaying the current presentation status concerning the table of contents . Regarding presentation , a stripped down profile was selected , with dimensioning for handheld devices . Lastly , the third configuration was defined to be audio only , geared towards visually impaired users . This version was also stripped down to its bare minimums , although reproduceable on a SMIL player . After transformation into the SMIL output format , an audio cue was introduced ( in the form of a beep played in parallel with the main audio ) , to help on navigation tasks .
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK Accessibility is becoming a crucial issue for web based multimedia content , such as DTBs . As authoring tasks are error prone and time consuming regarding different kinds of users , as well as different usage scenarios , there is a need to automate production . DiTaBBu enables the production of complete book collections in an entirely automatic manner , with coherent UIs and interaction mechanisms , thus delivering more content to several target audiences .
Based on DiTaBBu , future directions are being delineated : transclusion mechanisms to support the integration of different kinds of external contents ; integrate other content formats both on the initial input content and the final output format a DTB will be delivered ; lastly , work is being done towards seamless integration between DiTaBBu and adaptive rich DTB playback platforms .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work is partially supported by FCT ( Funda¸c˜ao para a Ciˆencia e Tecnologia ) , grant POSC/EIA/61042/2004 .
6 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] L . Carri¸co , C . Duarte , R . Lopes , M . Rodrigues , and
N . Guimar˜aes . Building Rich User Interfaces for Digital Talking Books . In Computer Aided Design of User Interfaces IV . Kluwer Academic Publishers , 2005 .
[ 2 ] L . Carri¸co , N . Guimar˜aes , C . Duarte , T . Chambel , and H . Sim˜oes . Spoken books : Multimodal interaction and information repurposing . In Proceedings of HCII’2003 , International Conference on Human Computer Interaction , pages 680–684 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] Daisy 3.0 Specification , 2005 . http://wwwdaisyorg/z3986/2005/z3986 2005html
[ 4 ] Jeff Ayars , Dick Bulterman , et al . Synchronized Multimedia
Integration Language ( SMIL 20 ) W3C Rec . , 2001 . http://wwww3org/TR/SMIL2
[ 5 ] R . Lopes and L . Carri¸co . APP Architecture for Pipelined
Processing . IADIS International Conference WWW/Internet 2005 , 2005 .
[ 6 ] I . J . Pitt and A . D . N . Edwards . Improving the usability of speech based interfaces for blind users . In Assets ’96 : Proceedings of the 2nd annual ACM conference on Assistive technologies , pages 124–130 , New York , USA , 1996 . ACM Press .
[ 7 ] P . Schmitz , J . Yu , and P . Santangeli . Timed Interactive
Multimedia Extensions for HTML ( HTML+TIME ) . W3C Note , 1998 . http://wwww3org/TR/NOTE HTMLplusTIME
[ 8 ] J . van Ossenbruggen , J . Geurts , F . Cornelissen , L . Rutledge , and
L . Hardman . Towards second and third generation web based multimedia . The Tenth International World Wide Web Conference in Hong Kong , pages 479–488 , May 1 5 2001 .
Figure 1 : DiTaBBu stage definition and execution the book ’s main content and complementary contents and structures ( such as table of contents or indices ) . Linking and time synchronization is provided through XLink based documents . Structure extraction tasks infer over the normalized content to find implicit navigation structures ( eg producing a table of contents from the book ’s content structure ) . Lastly , granularity control tasks allows for content structures’ flattening ( geared towards low resources devices ) , reducing playback platform ’s synchronization efforts .
Afterwards , the output format stage is responsible for transforming the normalized content structures into different output formats , as well as integration of bookmarks , highlights and annotations mechanisms . DiTaBBu currently supports three output formats , HTML+TIME [ 7 ] , SMIL and DTB , but any other target format can be plugged into this stage , extending DiTaBBu ’s delivery range . As each format has different features , an output format must be chosen regarding the feature set a book producer wants to deliver . On the interaction stage , input device support ( currently mouse , keyboard and speech ) integration is performed in the book ’s content and navigation structures . Two interaction types may be applied : direct content navigation , and content navigation through auxiliar structures . The first enables the user to jump towards any location in a book content , whereas the second is based on predefined navigation patterns ( eg table of contents ) . As each output format has its specificities and constraints , different interaction mechanisms have been implemented for each format . Having this stage separate from the output format stage enables better configuration of DiTaBBu ’s automation process .
DiTaBBu ’s last processing stage defines how a book is presented to the user . The approach taken is based on the presentation profiles concept . These profiles are defined as a set of presentation rules , with an agnostic language regarding the chosen output format from the previous processing stage . These rules are applied to the book ’s contents and navigation structures , implementing a rich set of presentation features , thus opening the way for automated creation of DTBs with coherent UIs . Each rule specifies a presentation pattern for one of five settings : dimensioning , colouring , synchronization guidance , sound volume , and sound items .
3 . EXPERIMENTATION
To test DiTaBBu ’s flexibility , three different versions of an existing book ( “ O Senhor Ventura ” , by Miguel Torga ) were produced . Each version focused on different aspects on the automatic generation of DTBs , proving DiTaBBu ’s flexibility . The initial book content was composed by an audio file with the spoken text , the book textual content and a set of sidenotes , and synchronization information . This synchronization was performed automatically with speech recognition software . The first version created was defined
