System for Spatio Temporal Analysis of
Online News and Blogs
Angelo Dalli
211 , Portobello Str . , Sheffield S1 4DP , United Kingdom
University of Sheffield
( +44 ) 114 222 1800 angelo@dcsshefacuk
ABSTRACT Previous work on spatio temporal analysis of news items and other documents has largely focused on broad categorization of small text collections by region or country . A system for largescale spatio temporal analysis of online news media and blogs is presented , together with an analysis of global news media coverage over a nine year period . We demonstrate the benefits of using a hierarchical geospatial database to disambiguate between geographical named entities , and provide results for an extremely fine grained analysis of news items . Aggregate maps of media attention for particular places around the world are compared with geographical and socio economic data . Our analysis suggests that GDP per capita is the best indicator for media attention .
[ Information
Categories and Subject Descriptors Presentation ] : H54 [ Information Storage and Hypertext/Hypermedia ; H33 Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; J.4 [ Social and Behavioral Sciences ] : Economics and Sociology ;
Interfaces and
General Terms Algorithms , Theory , Performance , Design , Economics
Keywords Geolocation , disambiguation of geographical named entities , media attention , news , blogs , social behavior , spatio temporal to their influence
1 . INTRODUCTION Online news and , more recently , blogs , are increasingly becoming one of the most popular destinations for Internet users , slowly increasing those of traditional media [ 1 ] . Media attention and popular attention shifts continuously as new events happen in the world . Generally , media attention influences popular attention , although the reverse also occurs to a lesser degree . Attention in this context can be conveniently defined as the number of documents on a given subject , which is the same definition used by Zuckerman in his seminal paper on Media Attention profiles [ 5 ] . levels approaching
Existing news and blogs classification systems such as Google News and Blog Pulse usually focus on topic classification or keyword frequency tracking over time [ 6,7 ] . Previous work on georeferencing texts with a geospatial aware NER system has addressed the issues of spatial grounding of geographical entities
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 323 9/06/0005 . and geographical name disambiguation [ 9,10,11,12,13 ] utilizing input from text analysis or Internet IP and DNS data [ 14 ] . However , almost none of these systems have comprehensively accounted for the temporal aspect associated with geographical named entities . This work ( partly supported by EPSRC grant EP/C536762/1 and a small grant from Linguamine ) presents a system , cpGeo , which analyses mentions of different geographical locations over time in news texts and blogs , creating real time maps of shifting attention profiles that are convenient for highlighting current hot spots and determining what places capture the most attention in the world over time . Our interest is to find a set of indicators that are indicative of the level of attention enjoyed by different places in the world , and hence , the people living at those places .
2 . ANALYSIS SYSTEM The spatio temporal analysis system , called cpGeo , is made up of five components ( a high performance web crawler , distributed storage , knowledge extraction , geospatial processor and data mining system ) that allow download and analyze millions of items in a highly scaleable manner and generate summary reports . cpGeo currently downloads between 18,000 to 21,000 news items every day from around 6,000 sources . Our level of coverage is rapidly approaching 100 % of all online news published everyday . In order to have adequate coverage of news prior to 2003 , we supplemented news through the LDC English Gigaword corpus [ 14 ] . Blog entries are also being downloaded at a rate of around 156,000 blog items a day from around 90,000 authors . The cpGeo knowledge extraction subsystem performs various tasks related to basic text document processing and knowledge extraction . Documents are indexed and processed through a custom built multiple document summarisation system . Named entities and related events are identified and extracted to a temporal database . The geospatial processor identifies and disambiguates references to geographical locations around the world , and can produce graphical GIS like presentations of its output results . The clustering and data mining system , utilizes multivariate clustering with an integrated rule learning model [ 18,19,20 ] . A small world knowledge database is used to interpret results correctly . 3 . GEOSPATIAL PROCESSING The cpGeo geospatial processor has three main components namely , the Multilingual Geospatial Database , a Multilingual Geographical Named Entity Recognizer ( GNER ) and a Disambiguation Module . The database has entries in 139 different languages and 3 main hierarchical levels covering 251 countries , 4,815 administrative regions and 7,574,966 individual place names and features . The database allows us to take into account the element of time and the fact that place names sometimes regions change over time . Figure 1 shows the spatial database coverage , with shaded recognized geographical locations in the world . ( Some regions have lower coverage density , for example apparent for India , which has high population density but lower coverage in the spatial database ) . representing coverage likely to occur at any particular location in the world .
Figure 1 . Spatial Database Coverage .
The geospatial database also contains additional information such as the WGS84 latitude and longitude , feature type ( populated place , street , etc. ) , relative importance , and aliases . The GNER uses feature type information to determine the reliability of entries in the geospatial database , making it possible to identify , for example that “ Lascaux ” , “ Lascaux Cave ” , “ Cave of Lascaux ” , and “ La Grotte de Lascaux ” refer to the same location . The GNER also has a geographic anaphora resolver , enabling it to know , for example , that “ Bay Area ” is referring to “ San Francisco Bay Area ” . Surprisingly , there are also many duplicated place names in the world ( around 10 % to 25 % of all place names ) . The GNER uses a mixture of heuristics and statistics to successfully disambiguate between duplicates . Geographical proximity and relative importance of other place names mentioned in the same context are considered in the disambiguation process . The GNER also uses the knowledge extraction system to determine whether ambiguous names should be classified as person names or place names ( eg to determine whether “ Washington ” is referring to the city , state or surname ) , enabling it to successfully resolve ambiguities in over 98 % of cases . cpGeo achieved an F measure of 0.9965 compared to 0.904 for the Perseus system [ 13 ] .
4 . EVALUATION AND RESULTS We have evaluated the cpGeo system on our main news items database spanning from 1994 to 2005 ( a total of 4,197 days ) . On average , every day had mentions of around 500 unique location names with 16,500 mentions of geographical named entities . Figure 2 shows the output of the system for 1 January 2000 . Generally , when viewed on a global scale , the map changes slowly , although spikes and changes occur rapidly on local scales . The cpGeo system also keeps aggregate statistics of all place names mentioned together with their frequency , thus building up a map that indicates the regions in the world that are receiving the most media attention ( as shown in Figure 3 ) . In the United States it is apparent that North East states receive more attention than other states , with the exception of California . In Europe , the UK and Belgium also receive more attention , while in Asia , Japan gets mentioned most frequently ( with China catching up ) . The aggregate maps can be useful in predicting the background level of attention that a particular region usually receives , providing better means of identifying spikes and anomalies instead of using simple threshold or rate increase methods . Aggregate maps represent a probability density function for the amount of news
Figure 2 . System Output for 1 January 2000 .
Our results show that the top 80 mentioned place names consistently dominate the daily global news , generating more than 50 % of all mentions on average . The top 3 daily place names generate around 11 % of all mentions in the news .
Figure 3 . World Average News Media Attention . the cpGeo system on a small We have also evaluated geographical scale using a four year collection of news about the smallest EU member state of Malta . Based on this evaluation we have determined that the cpGeo system can produce accurate results at a global resolution of around 3m x 3m . Various statistical indicators were examined in an attempt to find correlations between statistical indicators and the cpGeo media attention ratings , with Number of Unresolved International Disputes , GDP Per Capita , and Number of Internet Users being the top three indicators that correlate with media coverage with GDP per capita being the most significant indicator of media attention . The clustering system also produced 26 distinct clusters of countries based on these indicators , showing that for poorer countries , the secondary determining indicator for media attention is their number of disputes , while for richer countries the secondary determining factor is the number of Internet users . Thus , poorer countries are often in the news whenever they are involved in some armed conflict or dispute , and are most likely to be portrayed in a negative fashion . The cpGeo system results also show that certain countries are abnormally represented in the media and blogs . The top 5 most over represented countries in the world ( with respect to their population levels ) are the Holy See ( Vatican ) , Monaco , Liechtenstein , Iceland and Luxembourg while the bottom 5 most under represented countries are India , China , Brazil , Indonesia and Pakistan . There is a huge disparity between the top and bottom countries , for example , each Liechtenstein citizen gets the same average media coverage equivalent to 4,800 Pakistanis .
