The Credibility of the Posted Information in a Recommendation System Based on a Map
Koji Yamamoto
Tokyo Institute of Technology 4259 Nagatsuta , Midori ku
Yokohama , Japan
Daisuke Katagami
Tokyo Institute of Technology 4259 Nagatsuta , Midori ku
Yokohama , Japan
Katsumi Nitta
Tokyo Institute of Technology 4259 Nagatsuta , Midori ku
Yokohama , Japan yamamoto@nttdistitechacjp
Akira Aiba
Shibaura Institute of
Technology
Hitoshi Kuwata Shibaura Institute of
Technology
307 Fukasaku , Minuma ku
307 Fukasaku , Minuma ku
Saitama , Japan
Saitama , Japan
ABSTRACT We propose a method for estimating the credibility of the posted information from users . The system displays these information on the map . Since posted information can include subjective information from various perspectives , we can’t trust all of the postings as they are . We propose and integrate factors of the user ’s geographic posting tendency and votes by other users . Categories and Subject Descriptors H42 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Decision support General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Human Factors Keywords credibility , posting , GIS , navigation , recommendation 1 .
INTRODUCTION
We have developed an information recommendation system which updates its information with postings and navigates user by using them . The problem of the system using posted information is that we can’t trust all of the postings as they are because posted information can include subjective information from various perspectives . Generally speaking , information which has high credibility is posted by the users who have much knowledge about certain areas . The user ’s expertise was estimated based on the credibility of past posting information in existing methods . However , even if the knowledge of a specific genre can be estimated using existing methods , knowledge in the region can’t be estimated . Our goal is to develop an information recommendation system using posted information with the method for estimating the credibility of posted information based on their regional characteristics . 2 . PROCEDURE TO ESTIMATE THE
CREDIBILITY
Our system assigns initial credibility to posted information if it is the user ’s first posting , as Ri(g ; x ; y ) = Rdef ault . Rdef ault is a default value determined in advance . If a new
Copyright is held by the author/owner . WWW 2006 , May 23–26 , 2006 , Edinburgh , Scotland . ACM 1 59593 332 9/06/0005 . posting , which is located at ( xp ; yp ) and whose genre is g , is posted , then Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) is determined by distance between ( xp ; yp ) and the location ( xq ; yq ) of past postings as the formula ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Pi is the set of posted information by user i . wpq fi Ri(g ; xq ; yq )
Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) = Pq2Pi=p
( 1 )
( 2 ) wpq
Pq2Pi=p
1 wpq = distf(xp ; yp ) ; ( xq ; yq)g
Formula ( 1 ) indicates weighted average of distance between the user ’s past postings and new posting . Function dist indicates distance between two postings . Thus , posting has influence to the same user ’s vicinal postings . This process gives new information initial credibility . If the credibility of user ’s posting is relative high , new posting also has high initial credibility .
After a user browses posted information , he can vote for it . When the user votes , he chooses his rating for posting ( helpful , moderate , not helpful ) . In case of \helpful" , credibility of the voted information increases .
When user j votes for user i ’s information p , the system updates credibility of information p by following formula ( 3 ) .
Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) + f 0(f ,1(Ri(g ; xp ; yp) ) ) fi Vj fi
XIj 3q
Rj(g ; xq ; yq ) fi exp , ,
( distf(xp ; yp ) ; ( xq ; yq)g)2
21
2
( 3 )
Where Vj is 1 when vote is \helpful" , or 1 when vote is \not helpful" . 1 is a parameter adjusting influence by distance . Magnitude of the effect of vote by voter j is expressed by product of distance damping function between voter ’s existing posting and voted posting and credibility of voter ’s existing posting . Therefore , when voter ’s high credibility postings exist near the voted posting , the effect by such vote increases . When vote is \not helpful" , Vj is negative and decreases updated value . f ( x ) is sigmoid function . f ( x ) =
1
1 + e,ffx
( 4 )
Map area1 area2
Table 1 : Coefficient of correlation between the average rating of subjects and model calculation
Case 1
Case 2
Case 3
Coorelation coefficient Rank correlation coefficient 0.403 0.549 0.780
0.430 0.509 0.731 posting by user A posting by user B user B is familiar with area1 user A is familiar with area2
Figure 1 : Geographical posting tendency : Scattered circles denote posting on a map .
This function is used to control increment of gradient when Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) is updated . Gradient is obtained using f ,1(x ) , when value of Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) is equal to f ( x ) . ff is the gain of sigmoid function . Increasing this value , gradient becomes steeply .
We defined geoip , which effects credibility of user i’ s post ing p , based on user i ’s geographical posting tendency . geoip = f 0(f ,1(Ri(g ; xp ; yp)))fi X(Pi=p)3q
Ri(g ; xq ; yq ) fi exp , ,
( distf(xp ; yp ) ; ( xq ; yq)g)2
22
2
( 5 )
2 is a parameter which adjusts effect by distance between the same user ’s postings . This effect geoip rises when much high credibility information are located near the information p . We will call geoip \posting tendency effect"(Fig 1 ) . In fact , this effect expresses the fact that a posting is more credible by the same user posted good information near it . This revision by formula ( 5 ) is performed when someone posts or votes ( formula ( 1 ) or ( 3) ) . Finally , we defined revised credibility of information p by user i as Iip .
Iip = Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) + Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) fi geoip
( 6 ) geoip is added after multiplied by Ri(g ; xp ; yp ) because we emphasize credibility of that point .
Procedure of our method is summarized as follows . We define either new posting or vote as one step .
At each step(either new posting or vote is done ) : If new information is posted f 1 . Determine initial credibility of new posting ( 1 ) 2 . Update posting tendency effect about the posting user ’s all postings ( 5 ) 3 . Update credibility about the posting user ’s all postings ( 6)g
Else if a posting is voted f 1 . Update credibility of voted posting ( 3 ) 2 . Update posting tendency effect about the voted user ’s all postings ( 5 ) 3 . Update credibility about the voted user ’s all postings ( 6)g
3 . EXPERIMENT
To confirm our model can estimate credibility , We conducted following experiment by using the system . At first , we gathered posted information from users as preparation for experiment . We asked 20 students to register their profile , and to post the information about 4 areas around Tokyo ( Shibuya , O okayama , Machida , Aobadai ) , Japan , using our system . We asked them not only to post the information but also to browse and vote for other user ’s information . We set parameters Rdef ault = 0:2 , ff = 0:2 , and considering scale of 4 areas , we used 1 = 30(km ) and 2 = 15(km ) at distance function . As a result , 134 posts and 412 votes are collected . Among them , 179 votes are \helpful" , 193 votes are \moderate" , and 40 are \not helpful" .
As the next step , we asked 15 students to assign the rate of credibility to each posted information from rating scale of 1(unreliable ) to 7(reliable ) . We performed the rating experiments for the following three cases . ffl Case 1 : Only posted information is displayed . Posting user ’s ID of information is invisible . ffl Case 2 :
In addition to posted information , posting user ’s ID is displayed . Therefore subjects can figure out who posted each information . ffl Case 3 :
In addition to the posted information and posting user ’s ID , position of posted information on map is displayed . Subjects can figure out not only who posted information but also where the user posted . In addition , voting user ’s IDs are disclosed .
In all cases , contents of information are the same .
Therefore , if subject ’s rating differs by cases , and if credibility calculated by our model can be approximate to rating by human at case 3 , then we can say our system determines credibility as substitute for users .
Table 1 shows results . We examined correlation coefficient and rank correlation coefficient between subject ’s rating and credibility which was calculated by our method . Both of them , correlation of case 3 is the highest . Consequently , we consider that subjects imagined what kind of person is the posting user from his posting , and their rating got closer to the model . In conclusion , rating by subjects is different according to the situation , and this model is effective and able to consider the change in human psychology , and to calculate close credibility to rating by human . 4 . CONCLUSIONS
We have proposed a method for estimating credibility of posted information on a map . From experimental results , we confirmed that our method can calculate credibility approximately to the rating by human . Our method can consider geographical posting tendency , which hasn’t been considered in existing works about credibility on the Web .
Having generality not depending on contents of informa tion , our method is applicable to various communities . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Michael Pazzani : A Framework for Collaborative ,
Content Based and Demographic Filtering . Artificial Intelligence Review , pp . 393 408 , 1999 .
[ 2 ] M . G . Vozalis and K . G . Margaritis : Collaborative Filtering enhanced by Demographic Correlation" , AIAI Symposium on Professional Practice in AI , of the 18th World Computer Congress , 2004 .
[ 3 ] G . Zacharia , A . Moukas , P . Maes : Collaborative Reputation Mechanisms in Electronic Marketplaces , Proceedings of the 32nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , 1999 .
