Discovering Representative Episodal Association Rules from Event Sequences
Using Frequent Closed Episode Sets and Event Constraints
Sherri K . Harms , Jitender Deogun
Department of CSCE University of Nebraska Lincoln , NE 68588 0115 sharmsfdeogung@cseunledu
Jamil Saquer CS Department
SWMS University
Springfield , MO 65804 jms481f@smsu.edu
Tsegaye Tadesse
NDMC
University of Nebraska Lincoln , NE 68588 0115 tadesse@unlserveunledu
Abstract
Discovering association rules from time series data is an important data mining problem . The number of potential rules grows quickly as the number of items in the antecedent grows . It is therefore difficult for an expert to analyze the rules and identify the useful . An approach for generating representative association rules for transactions that uses only a subset of the set of frequent itemsets called frequent closed itemsets was presented in [ 6 ] . We employ formal concept analysis to develop the notion of frequent closed episodes . The concept of representative association rules is formalized in the context of event sequences . Applying constraints to target highly significant rules further reduces the number of rules . Our approach results in a significant reduction of the number of rules generated , while maintaining the minimum set of relevant association rules and retaining the ability to generate the entire set of association rules with respect to the given constraints . We show how our method can be used to discover associations in a drought risk management decision support system and use multiple climatology datasets related to automated weather stations1 .
1 . Introduction
Discovering association rules is an important datamining problem . The problem was first defined in the context of the market basket data to identify customers’ buying habits [ 1 ] . The problem of analyzing and identifying interesting rules becomes difficult as the number of rules increases . In most applications the number of rules discovered is usually large . Two different approaches to handle this problem have been reported : 1 ) identifying the association rules that are of special importance to the user , and 2 )
1This research was supported in part by NSF Digital Government Grant
No . EIA 0091530 and NSF EPSCOR , Grant No . EPS 0091900 . minimizing the number of association rules discovered [ 2 ] . Most of these approaches introduce additional measures for interestingness of a rule and prune the rules that do not satisfy the additional measures , as a post processing step . A set of representative association rules , on the other hand , is a minimal set of rules from which all association rules can be generated , during the actual processing step . Usually , the number of representative association rules is much smaller than the number of all association rules , and no additional measures are needed for determining the representative association rules [ 4 ] .
Recently , Saquer and Deogun developed a different approach for generating representative association rules [ 6 ] . Similarly , Zaki [ 8 ] used frequent closed itemsets to generate non redundant association rules in CHARM .
We use closure as the basis for generating frequent sets in the context of sequential data . We then generate sequential association rules based on representative association rule approaches while integrating constraints into our approach . By combining these techniques , our method is well suited for time series problems that have groupings of events that occur close together in time , but occur relatively infrequently over the entire dataset . We apply this technique to the drought risk management problem .
2 . Frequent Closed Episodes
Our overall goal is to analyze event sequences , discover recurrent patterns of events , and generate sequential association rules . Our approach is based on the concept of representative association rules combined with event constraints . A sequential dataset is normalized and then discretized by forming subsequences using a sliding window [ 5 ] . Using a sliding window of size ffi , every normalized time stamp value xt is used to compute each of the new sequence values yt,ffi=2 to yt+ffi=2 . Thus , the dataset has been divided into segments , each of size ffi . The discretized version of the time series is obtained by using some clustering algorithm and a suitable similarity measure . Each cluster identifier is an event type , and the set of cluster labels is the class of events E .
The newly formed version of the time series is referred to as an event sequence . An event sequence is a triple ( tB ; tD ; S ) where tB is the beginning time , tD is the ending time , and S is a finite , time ordered sequence of events [ 5 ] . That is , S = ( etB ; etB+1p ; etB+2p ; : : : etB+dp = etD ) , where p is the step size between each event , d is the total number of steps in the time interval from time tB to time tD , and D = B + dp . Each eti is a member of a class of events E , and ti ti+1 for all i = B ; : : : ; D , 1p . A sequence of events S includes events from a single class of events E .
A window on an event sequence S is an event subsequence W = fetj ; : : : ; etk g , where tB tj , and tk tD + 1 [ 5 ] . The width of the window W is width(W ) = tk , tj . The set of all windows W on S , with width(W ) = win is denoted as W(S ; win ) . The width of the window is prespecified .
An episode in an event sequence is a combination of events with a partially specified order . The type of an episode is parallel if no order is specified , and serial if the events of the episode have a fixed order . An episode is injective if no event type occurs more than once in the episode . [ 5 ] to consider closed sets of episodes . We use formal concept analysis as the basis for developing the notion of closed episode sets [ 6 ] . Informally , a concept is a pair of sets : set of objects ( windows or episodes ) and set of features ( events ) common to all objects in the set .
We extend the work of Mannila et al .
Definition 1 An episodal data mining context is defined as a triple ( W(S ; win ) ; E ; R ) where W(S ; win ) is a set of all windows of width win defined on the event sequence S , and E is a set of episodes in the event sequence S , and R W . E .
Definition 2 Let ( W ; E ; R ) be an episodal data mining context , X W , and Y E . Define the mappings ff , fi as follows : fi : 2W ! 2E ; fi(X ) = fe 2 E j ( w ; e ) 2 R 8 w 2 Xg ; ff : 2E ! 2W ; ff(Y ) = fw 2 W j ( w ; e ) 2 R 8 e 2 Y g :
The mapping fi(X ) associates with X the set of episodes that are common to all the windows in X . Similarly , the mapping ff(Y ) associates with Y the set of all windows containing all the episodes in Y . Intuitively , fi(X ) is the maximum set of episodes shared by all windows in X and ff(Y ) is the maximum set of windows possessing all the episodes in Y .
It is easy to see that in general , for any set Y of episodes , fi(ff(Y ) ) 6= Y . A set of episodes Y that satisfies the condition fi(ff(Y ) ) = Y is called a closed set of episodes [ 6 ] .
The frequency of an episode is defined as the fraction of windows in which the episode occurs . Given an event sequence S , and a window width win , the frequency of an episode P of a given type in S is : f r(P ; S ; win ) = j w 2 W(S ; win ) : P occurs in w j j W(S ; win ) j
Given a frequency threshold min fr , P is frequent if f r(P ; S ; win ) min f r . A frequent closed set of episodes ( FCE ) is a closed set of episodes that satisfy the minimum frequency threshold . Closure of an episode set X E , denoted by closure(X ) , is the smallest closed episode set containing X and is equal to the intersection of all frequent episode sets containing X .
To generate frequent closed target episodes , we develop an algorithm called Gen FCE , shown in Figure 1 . GenFCE is a combination of the Close FCI algorithm [ 6 ] , the WINEPI frequent episode algorithms [ 5 ] , and the Direct algorithm [ 7 ] . Gen FCE generates F CE with respect to a given set of Boolean target constraints B , an event sequence S , a window width win , an episode type , a minimum frequency min fr , and a window step size p . The Gen FCE algorithm requires one database pass during each iteration .
1 ) Generate Candidate Frequent Closed Target Episodes of length 1 ( CF C1;B ) ;
2 ) k = 1 ; 3 ) while ( CF Ck;B 6= ; ) do 4 )
Read the sequence S , one window at a time , let F CEk;B be the elements in CF Ck;B with a new closure , and with a frequency min fr
5 ) Generate Candidate Frequent Closed Target Episodes
CF Ck+1;B from F CEk;B k++ ;
6 ) 7 ) return Sk,1 i=1 fF CEi;B:closureandF CEi;B:f requencyg ;
Figure 1 . Gen FCE algorithm .
We incorporate constraints similar to the Direct algorithm [ 7 ] . This approach is known to work well at low minimum supports and in large datasets [ 7 ] . This approach requires an expensive cross product operation , so for disjunctive singleton constraints , the candidate generation algorithm is used [ 5 ] .
3 Representative Episodal Association Rules
We use the set of frequent closed episodes F CE produced from the Gen FCE algorithm to generate the representative episodal association rules that cover the entire set of association rules [ 4 ] .
The cover of a rule r : X ) Y , denoted by C(r ) , is the set of association rules that can be generated from r . That is , C(r : X ) Y ) = fX [ U ) V j U ; V Y ; U \ and V 6= ;g . An important property of the V = ; ; cover operator stated in [ 4]is that if an association rule r has support s and confidence c , then every rule r0 2 C(r ) has support at least s and confidence at least c .
Using the cover operator , a set of representative association rules with minimum support s and minimum confidence c , RAR(s ; c ) , is defined as follows : RAR(s ; c ) = r 6= r0 and r 2 fr 2 AR(s ; c ) j C(r0)g : That is , a set of representative association rules is a least set of association rules that cover all the association rules and from which all association rules can be generated . Clearly , AR(s ; c ) = SfC(r ) j r 2 RAR(s ; c)g .
6 9r0 2 AR(s ; c ) ;
Gen REAR shown in Figure 2 , is a modification of the Generate RAR [ 6 ] that generates REAR for a given set of frequent closed episodes F CE with respect to a minimum confidence c . k = the size of the longest frequent closed episode in
1 ) FCE ; 2 ) while ( k > 1 ) do Generate REARk , by adding each rule X ) Z\X 3 ) such that ( Z:support=X:support c and X ) Z\X is not covered by a previously generated rule 4 ) 5 ) return REAR ; k + + ;
Figure 2 . Gen REAR algorithm .
Using our technique on multiple time series while constraining the episodes to a user specified target set , we can find relationships that occur across the sequences .
4 Empirical Results
We are developing an advanced Geospatial Decision Support System ( GDSS ) to improve the quality and accessibility of drought related data for drought risk management [ 3 ] . Our objective is to integrate spatio temporal knowledge discovery techniques into the GDSS using a combination of data mining techniques applied to geospatial time series data by : 1 ) finding relationships between user specified target episodes and other climatic events and 2 ) predicting the target episodes . The REAR approach will be used to meet the first objective . In this paper we validate the effectiveness of the REAR approach to find relationships between drought episodes at the automated weather station in Mead , NE , and other climatic episodes , from 1989 1999 . We compare it to the WINEPI algorithm [ 5 ] . We use data from nine sources , including satellite vegetation data and precipitation and soil moisture data .
We experimented with several different window widths , minimal frequency values , minimal confidence values , for both parallel and serial episodes . When using constraints , we specified droughts as our target episodes . The experiments were ran on a AMD Athlon 1.3GHz PC with 256 MB main memory , under the Windows 2000 operating system .
4.1 Gen FCE vs . WINEPI
Tables 1 and 2 represent performance statistics for finding frequent closed episodes in the drought risk management dataset for Mead , NE with various frequency thresholds for injective serial drought episodes with a 2 month window using the Gen FCE and WINEPI algorithms , respectively .
Iters
Table 1 . Gen FCE serial episode performance . time min fr Candidates ( s ) 2 1 1 0 0
Freq . Closed Episodes 77 24 10 6 5
0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25
525 335 153 93 83
3 2 2 2 2
Iters
Table 2 . WINEPI serial episode performance . time min fr Candidates ( s ) 6932 205 10 1 1
Freq . Closed Episodes 3950 629 229 102 58
17284 4687 1704 807 567
0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25
6 5 4 4 3
Gen FCE performs extremely well when finding the drought episodes . The number of frequent closed episodes decreases rapidly as the frequency threshold increases . For the sample dataset at a frequency threshold of 0.10 and a window width of 2 months , Gen FCE produces 6 frequent drought serial episodes while WINEPI produces 1600 % more ( 102 ) episodes .
Because we are working with a fraction of the possible number of episodes , our algorithms are extremely efficient . When finding all frequent drought episodes for the sample dataset using a window width of 5 months , the running time was 1 second for Gen FCE and 6 hours for WINEPI . This illustrates the benefits of using closures and constraints when working with the infrequently occurring drought events .
As the window size increases , so does the frequent frequent episode generation time and the number of episodes . When using drought constraints , the increase is at a much slower pace than WINEPI . For the sample dataset and a window width of 3 months , Gen FCE produces 53 frequent drought serial episodes while WINEPI produces 5779 % more ( 3116 ) episodes .
4.2 Gen REAR vs . WINEPI Association Rules
We next experimented with finding association rules in the drought risk management dataset for Mead , NE with various confidence thresholds and window widths using the Gen REAR and WINEPI AR algorithms for injective parallel and serial episodes . The number of rules decreases rapidly as the confidence threshold increases and increases rapidly as the window width widens . In all cases , GenREAR produces fewer rules than the WINEPI AR algorithm . Using the Gen REAR approach , all the rules can be generated if desired , even though the meaning of the additional AR ’s is captured by the smaller set of REAR ’s .
Gen REAR performs extremely well when finding drought episodal rules as shown in Table 3 . The number of REAR ’s decreases rapidly as the confidence interval increases . For the sample dataset at a confidence threshold of 0.20 and a window width of 2 months , Gen REAR produces 24 drought parallel episodal rules while WINEPI AR produces 20892 % more ( 5038 ) rules . With the same parameters , Gen REAR produces 14 drought serial episodal rules while WINEPI AR produces 16257 % more ( 2290 ) rules .
Table 3 . Gen REAR parallel and serial rules .
Serial Confidence Distinct Distinct rules 14 12 9 7 6 5 threshold 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40 0.45
Parallel rules 24 24 19 13 10 8
As the window width widens , Gen REAR overwhelmingly produces fewer rules than the WINEPI algorithm . The number of REAR ’s increases as the window width . For the sample dataset at a window width of 3 months , GenREAR produces 30 parallel drought episodal rules while WINEPI AR produces 53763 % more ( 16159 ) rules . With the same parameters , Gen REAR produces 8 serial drought episodal rules while WINEPI AR produces 24825 % more ( 1994 ) . The savings are obvious . The Gen REAR algorithm finds the drought REAR ’s for all reasonable window widths and confidence levels on the Mead , NE drought risk management dataset in less than 30 seconds . As the window widens , the WINEPI AR algorithm quickly becomes computationally infeasible to use for the drought risk management problem .
5 Conclusion
This paper presents Gen REAR , a new approach for generating representative episodal association rules . We also presented Gen FCE , a new approach used to generate the frequent closed episode sets that conform to user specified constraints . Our approach results in a large reduction in the input size for generating representative episodal association rules for targeted episodes , while retaining the ability to generate the entire set of association rules . We also studied the gain in efficiency of generating targeted representative episodal association rules as compared to the traditional WINEPI algorithm on a multiple time series drought risk management problem .
References
[ 1 ] R . Agrawal , T . Imielinski , and A . Swami . Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases . In Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD 1993 International Conference on Management of Data [ SIGMOD 93 ] , pages 207–216 , Washington DC , 1993 .
[ 2 ] R . Bayardo , R . Agrawal , and D . Gunopupulos . Constraintbased rule mining in large , dense databases . In Proceedings of ICDE 99 , 1999 .
[ 3 ] S . K . Harms , S . Goddard , S . E . Reichenbach , W . J . Waltman , and T . Tadesse . Data mining in a geospatial decision support system for drought risk management . In Proceedings of the 2001 National Conference on Digital Government Research , pages 9–16 , Los Angelos , California , USA , May 2001 .
[ 4 ] M . Kryszkiewicz . Fast discovery of representative association rules . In Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence , volume 1424 , pages 214–221 . Proceedings of RSCTC 98 , Springer Verlag , 1998 .
[ 5 ] H . Mannila , H . Toivonen , and A . I . Verkamo . Discovery of frequent episodes in event sequences . Technical report , Department of Computer Science , University of Helsinki , Finland , 1997 . Report C 1997 15 .
[ 6 ] J . Saquer and J . S . Deogun . Using closed itemsets for discovering representative association rules . In Proceedings of the Twelfth International Symposium on Methodologies for Intelligent Systems [ ISMIS 2000 ] , Charlotte , NC , October 11 14 2000 .
[ 7 ] R . Srikant , Q . Vu , and R . Agrawal . Mining association rules In Proceedings of the Third Internawith item constraints . tional Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining [ KDD97 ] , pages 67–73 , 1997 .
[ 8 ] M . Zaki . Generating non redundant association rules .
In Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining [ KDD2000 ] , pages 34–43 , Boston , MA , USA , August 20 23 2000 .
