A Clustering Method for Very Large Mixed Data Sets
Guillermo Sánchez Díaz1 and José Ruiz Shulcloper2 1Autonomous University of the Hidalgo State , Mexico
2Institute of Cybernetics , Mathematics and Physics , Havana , Cuba sanchezg@uaehreduaehmx recpat@cideticmfinfcu
Abstract
In the developed countries , especially over the last decade , there has been an explosive growth in the capability to generate , collect and use very large data sets . The objects of these data sets could be simultaneously described by quantitative and qualitative attributes . At present , algorithms able to process either very large data sets ( in metric spaces ) or mixed ( qualitative and quantitative ) incomplete data ( missing value ) sets have been developed , but not for very large mixed incomplete data sets . In this paper we introduce a new clustering method named GLC+ to process very large mixed incomplete data sets in order to obtain a partition in connected sets .
1 Introduction
In some areas such as finance , banking , marketing , healthcare , engineering and in diagnostic problems in several environments like geosciences , medicine among many others , the amount of stored data has had an explosive increase [ 1 ] . In these areas , there are many instances where the description of the objects is not numerical or exclusively categorical . Both kinds of values can appear simultaneously . It is well known that one of the most important tools to process data in order to extract knowledge from their is clustering algorithms , whose purpose is ( in the KDD context ) to solve the following problem . Given a similarity measure β ( not necessarily a distance function ) between pairs of object descriptions in the representation space and a collection of such descriptions in that space , find a structuralization of this collection . And , with the following additional constraints : i ) the use of computing resources must be minimized and ii ) the data set could be large or very large .
2 Related Works
Several techniques have been developed to cluster large and very large data sets . CLARANS [ 2 ] , BIRCH [ 3 ]
Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM(cid:146)01 ) 0 7695 1119 8/01 $17.00 ' 2001 IEEE and IncDBSCAN [ 4 ] have given solutions , with higher or lower efficiencies . One of the mentioned algorithms is that they were not developed to cluster data sets defined in spaces in which the similarity relationships do not satisfy the triangle inequality and in some cases are not symmetric . the drawbacks of
Also , Chameleon[5 ] and GLC [ 6 ] have been developed to cluster data sets and large data sets . These techniques handle objects defined in non metric spaces , and use a similarity function S to compare two objects of the data sets . But these algorithms were not developed to cluster very large data sets .
In this paper , a new incremental clustering method for very large mixed incomplete data sets is presented . GLC+ handles data in any space and it is based on any similarity function β that compares two objects .
3 Connected Sets
Let M={O1,,Om} ; β(Oi,Oj ) a similarity function between the objects Oi , Oj ; and β0∈V a similarity threshold , where V is a totally ordered set . Definition 1 . Let G⊆M , G≠∅ , G is a β0 connected set if : ∀Oi,Oj∈G , with ∃{OG1,OG2,,OGt} such that Oi=OG1 , OGt=Oj and β(OGi1,OGi)≥β0 , for all i=2,,t
( wrt ) β and β0 respect to
Definition 2 . Let β0∈V and G be a β0 connected set . We say that S={O1,,Ot} , S⊆G , is a skeleton of G if ∀ Oi∈G , ∃Oj∈S , β(Oi,Oj)≥β0 .
Definition 3 . Let G be a β0 connected set and Si be all possible skeletons of G . Smin is a minimal skeleton of G if ∀Si⊆G , card(Smin)≤card(Si ) , where card(A ) is the number of elements in A .
4 The GLC+ Method
The GLC+ method has two phases . In the first phase , GLC+ clusters the objects in subclusters , which will be connected sets .
In the second phase , GLC+ gathers these generated sub clusters , giving the final clustering in connected sets .
The GLC+ method does not store all objects in the available memory . Instead , GLC+ only keeps the subset of these objects , which have a large number of similarity objects , named skeleton objects . Instead of comparing a new object with all of the objects in a cluster , this method only compares the new objects with the cluster ’s skeleton objects .
The GLC+ method uses the SCS algorithm ( Skeleton of a Connected Set ) in order to generate the skeletons of the connected sets . From each connected set generated , the SCS algorithm generates a minimal skeleton or approximates to it . The idea of the GLC+ method is to calculate a partition of the data set in connected sets , which approximates a partition in connected components ( we can see a connected component as a maximal connected set ) . This approximation is due to the size of the available memory .
The GLC+ method works in the following way : in the first phase , all possible connected sets are calculated until the given percentage of objects is reached or the available memory is full . After that , the SCS algorithm processes these connected sets in order to find the skeleton of each one in its corresponding cluster , and all of the remaining objects not belonging to the skeletons are kept also in their clusters , but not in the available memory . These objects are marked , and will be used in the second phase of GLC+ . The remaining objects are clustered , but they will be compared only with the objects stored in the available memory . This procedure is applied until all the objects have been gathered . In the second phase , GLC+ compares the border objects Ob∈Gh and the skeleton objects Os∈Gl , h ≠l . If Ob and Os are similar , then the Gh and Gl clusters are merged .
Both phases of GLC+ are incremental .
5 GLC+ performances
We carried out a 2D projection of the Covtype data set ( ftp://ftpicsuciedu/pub/machine learning databases/covertype ) This 2D data set is shown in Figure 1(a ) . The Figure 1(b ) and 1(c ) shows the clusters generated by a traditional hierarchical algorithm and CLARANS , respectively . Finally , the clusters discovered by GLC+ are shown in Figure 1 ( d ) .
In this Figure , we can show that the 2D projection contains one cluster with high density and cardinality , formed by the majority of the objects in the data set . And the remainder clusters has low cardinality ( ie there are formed by one , two , etc . objects ) . In this sense , the clusters discovered by GLC+ are genuine , because the method generate one cluster with high density and cardinality , and the remaining clusters obtained by GLC+ , has low cardinality .
The traditional hierarchical algorithm and CLARANS , obtain four clusters , with high density and cardinality . These algorithms split ( in four clusters ) the cluster with high density and cardinality .
Figure 1 . ( a ) Original data set ; ( b ) clusters generated by a traditional hierarchical algorithm ; ( c ) clustering obtained for CLARANS ; and ( d ) clusters discovered by GLC+ method .
6 Conclusions
The GLC+ method allows the generation of β0connected sets from very large mixed incomplete data sets . The GLC+ method does not establish any assumptions about the form , the size or cluster density characteristics of the resultant clusters . This method could be used with any kind of distance , or symmetric similarity function . The objects in the data set to be clustered may be described by quantitative and qualitative ( mixed ) attributes and with the possible presence of missing data .
References
1 . U . Fayyad , et al . Advances in knowledge Discovery in
Databases . Cambridge , MIT Press , 1996 .
2 . R . Ng and J . Han . Efficient and Effective Clustering Methods for Spatial Data Mining . Proc . 20th Int . Conf . on VLDB , Santiago , Chile , pp . 144 155 , 1994 .
3 . T . Zhang , R . Ramakrishnan and M . Livny . BIRCH : An Efficient Data Clustering Method for Very Large Databases . Proc . Int . Conf . on Management of Data , pp . 103 114 , 1996 .
4 . M . Ester , et al . Incremental Clustering for Mining in a Data Warehousing Environment . Proc . of 24th VLDB , New York , pp . 323 333 , 1998 .
5 . G . Karypis , EH ( Sam ) Han and V . Kumar . Chameleon : Hierarchical Cluster Using Dynamic Modeling . Computer , pp . 68 75 , August , 1999 .
6 . G . Sánchez Díaz , and J . Ruiz Shulcloper . MID Mining : a Logical Combinatorial Pattern Recognition Approach to Clustering in Large Data Sets . Proc . of 5th SIARP , Lisbon , Portugal , September 2000 , pp . 475 483 .
Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM(cid:146)01 ) 0 7695 1119 8/01 $17.00 ' 2001 IEEE
