Mining California Vital Statistics Data
Du Zhang , Quoc Luan Ha and Meiliu Lu
Department of Computer Science
California State University Sacramento , CA 95819 6021
{zhangd , ha , mei}@ecscsusedu
Abstract
2 . Data Preparation
Vital statistics data offer a fertile ground for data mining . In this paper , we discuss the results of a data mining project on the causes of death aspect of the vital statistics data in the state of California . A data mining tool called Cubist is used to build predictive models out of two million cases over a nine year period . The objective of our study is to discover knowledge that can be used to gain insight into various aspects of mortality in California , to predict health issues related to the causes of death , to offer an aid to decision or policy making process , and to provide useful information services to the customers . The results obtained in our study contain valuable new information . Keywords : vital statistics data , causes of death , data mining , predictive models , Cubist .
1 Introduction
Several types of data constitute what are commonly known as vital statistics data . These include births , deaths , fetal deaths , marriages , and divorces . The most commonly used types of vital statistics data in public health are data on births and deaths . Birth and death data are derived from the information reported on birth and death certificates sent to the offices of local and state registrars .
One of the most important public health functions is the monitoring of a population ’s health status . Vital statistics data provide a valuable source of information regarding the health status of a population .
In this paper , we discuss the results of a data mining project on the causes of death aspect of the vital statistics data in the state of California . A data mining tool called Cubist [ 8 ] is used to build predictive models out of nearly two million cases over a nine year period . The objective of our study is to discover knowledge that can be used to gain insight into various aspects of mortality in California , to predict health issues related to the causes of death , to offer an aid to decision or policy making process , and to provide useful information services to the customers . So far we have not found any published work in the literature on mining vital statistics data .
Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM(cid:146)01 ) 0 7695 1119 8/01 $17.00 ' 2001 IEEE
Identifying Sources of Data . There are two main sources of data used in our study , namely , Death Statistical Master File ( DSMF ) and Estimated Population File ( EPF ) . The DSMF data files contain data from the death certificates registered in California [ 4 ] . Each file contains a year worth of death data and includes detailed information concerning the decedent , the place of death , and the medical data related to the death . The total size of DSMF files used in the project is 1,995,398 records for the period of 1989 1997 . The EPF is prepared by the Demographic Research Unit of the California Department of Finance [ 3 ] , and is used for the purpose of calculating the death rates for the training and test sets in the project .
Data preprocessing . This time consuming one . After acquiring 1.99 millions of records from DSMF and data preprocessing in our study consists of data consolidation and cleaning , data reduction , and data integration and transformation .
9090 records step is the most from EPF ,
Data cleaning is carried out by eliminating or handling noisy , missing or inconsistent data . Data reduction process results in six attributes being used in our study ( out of 59 attributes in DSMF ) .
The causes of death ( COD ) in our study are coded according to the International Classification of Diseases , Ninth Revision , Clinical Modification ( ICD 9 CM ) [ 6 ] .
To build predictive models from data , we need to have the death rate information in both the training and test data sets . Because the information is not explicitly contained in the original data files ( DSMF , EPF ) , we derive the death rates from the data in DSMF and EPF through data integration and transformation .
Training/Test Data Sets Preparation . Before we can start the data mining process with Cubist , the names , data and test files must be in place . 3 Mining Process
The mining process is essentially COD centric . It is geared toward generating models not only from the data of all COD as a whole , but also from the data of each individual COD . There are several issues regarding how to carry out the mining process . How are training and test data sets selected and what are their respective sizes ? What type of models is to be generated , rule based or composite ? Is a model generated just for a particular COD or for all COD ?
Data Selection Strategies . We adopt two strategies in selecting training and test data for the mining process . The first strategy ( S1 ) uses the data collection from the period of 1989 1996 as the training set and the data from 1997 as the test set . The second strategy ( S2 ) , on the other hand , randomly selects both the training set data and the test set data from the entire period of 1989 1997 .
Training and Test Data Partitions . In S2 , we further define five different ways ( T1 , … , T5 ) of partitioning data into the training and test sets .
Model Generations . Of all the models generated in our study , 216 of them are defined according to the data selection strategies , training and test sets partitions , model types to be generated , and particular COD involved .
Committee Model .
In addition to rule based and composite models , Cubist can also generate what is referred to as the committee models out of several rulebased models . What a committee model does is that each member of the committee produces a target value for a case and the members’ predictions are then averaged to yield a final prediction [ 8 ] .
In our study , we select a best representative model ( either rule based or composite ) for each COD based on considerations of prediction accuracy , average errors and relative errors . If a selected model is rule based and its prediction accuracy is fairly high , we then turn on the committee model option to fine tune the selected rulebased model for further performance improvements . Thus , 24 additional committee models were produced as a result of the fine tuning process . 4 Result Analysis
Prediction Accuracy and Average Error . We compared the prediction accuracies and average errors under S1 and S2 . There are some phenomena that depend on data selection strategies , and some that do not .
Impact of Training and Test Data Partitions . When data set sizes are small , the improvement of prediction accuracy is obvious as the training set size increases for some rule based models . of Rule
Comparison and Composite Models . Composite models in general perform better than rule models ( especially under S2 ) . This is consistent with the observation that composite models are more effective when the number of attributes is small and all attributes are relevant to the prediction task .
Model Decomposition and Analysis . Once a model is generated , there are a number of issues pertaining to the rules their objective and subjective in the model :
Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ( ICDM(cid:146)01 ) 0 7695 1119 8/01 $17.00 ' 2001 IEEE
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 interestingness [ 9 ] , and reorganization for ease of analysis purpose study , we performed model decomposition and analysis on some obtained models to gain further insight .
In our
[ 7 ] .
Accuracy of Cubist Models . We compared the prediction results of Cubist models with those of the Vital Statistics of California Reports [ 1 , 2 ] . Most of the Cubist results are consistent with the published reports .
Surprising Results . The models produced by Cubist also contain surprising results that are not found in the official published reports such as Vital Statistics of California [ 1 , 2 ] . Most of those surprises represent valuable new information . Including marital status as an attribute during the mining process helped unearth valuable new information . 5 Conclusion
Our work pertains to a fertile ground for data mining . There is much to be done in the domain of vital statistics data . Future work can be pursued in several directions : generating and analyzing predictive models that include additional attributes such as individual underlying cause of death , place of occurrence , level of education , and place of residence , and that are from a subset of COD . Acknowledgement . We would like to express our appreciation to Mike Quinn , Manager of VSS , Department of Health Services , State of California , for his help and comments References 1 of
Finance ,
State of of
California ,
Center for Health Statistics , Department of Health Services , Advance Report : Vital Statistics of California 1998 , February 2000 . Center for Health Statistics , Department of Health Services , Vital Statistics of California 1997 , February 2000 . Department http://wwwdofcagov Department of Health Services , Center for Health Statistics , State California , http://wwwdhscagov/hisp/chsindexhtm QL Ha , Knowledge Discovery on the State of California Health Statistical Data , Master Degree thesis , Department of Computer Science , California State University , Sacramento , May 2001 . International Classification of Diseases 9th Revision , Clinical One ) , http://wwwmcisdukeedu/standards/termcode/icd9/ B . Liu , M . Hu and W . Hsu , Multi Level Organization and Summarization of the Discovered Rules , Proceedings of the Sixth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , August 20 23 , 2000 , pp208 217 Rulequest web winhtml A . Silberschatz and A . Tuzhilin , What Makes Patterns Interesting in Knowledge Discovery Systems , IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , Vol.8 , No.6 , December 1996 , pp970 974 http://wwwrulequestcom/cubist
Modification
( Volume site ,
