Topical Semantics of Twitter Links
Michael J . Welch∗
Yahoo! Inc .
Sunnyvale , CA 94089 mjwelch@yahoo inc.com
Uri Schonfeld
UCLA Computer Science Dept
Los Angeles , CA 90095 shuri@shuri.org
Dan He
Junghoo Cho
UCLA Computer Science Dept
UCLA Computer Science Dept
Los Angeles , CA 90095 danhe@csuclaedu
Los Angeles , CA 90095 cho@csuclaedu
ABSTRACT Twitter , a micro blogging platform with an estimated 20 million unique monthly visitors and over 100 million registered users , offers an abundance of rich , structured data at a rate exceeding 600 tweets per second . Recent efforts to leverage this social data to rank users by quality and topical relevance have largely focused on the “ follow ” relationship . Twitter ’s data offers additional implicit relationships between users , however , such as “ retweets ” and “ mentions ” . In this paper we investigate the semantics of the follow and retweet relationships . Specifically , we show that the transitivity of topical relevance is better preserved over retweet links , and that retweeting a user is a significantly stronger indicator of topical interest than following him . We demonstrate these properties by ranking users with two variants of the PageRank algorithm ; one based on the follows subgraph and one based on the implicit retweet sub graph . We perform a user study to assess the topical relevance of the resulting top ranked users .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval—Retrieval models
General Terms Experimentation , Algorithms
Keywords Twitter , Web graph , link semantics , modeling , ranking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
∗Work done while author was a graduate student in the UCLA Computer Science Department .
Twitter is a micro blogging site currently ranked 10th world wide according to Alexa traffic rankings1 , and according to compete.com it is reported to get over 28 million unique monthly visitors2 . Twitter has often demonstrated itself as a leading provider of information for breaking news events , and its rapidly growing influence and reach have inspired many researchers to look deeper into the nature of the information it captures [ 26 , 12 , 15 ] .
The Web is constantly evolving , and the changes go beyond advances in the presentation technology ( Flash , AJAX , new HTML standards , and so on ) . Sites such as Twitter are making large quantities of potentially useful , highly structured information available through publicly accessible interfaces . Simply modeling this information as a graph of independent , text based pages ( nodes ) connected by hyperlinks ( directed edges ) , will fail to capture all that this information has to offer , and thus produce less than ideal results . In this paper , we present a rich graphical model for Twitter with multiple semantic edges , and demonstrate the key principle that “ not all edges are created equal . ” We explore how the Twitter graph compares with the Web graph and , as a result of this discussion , we will uncover some of the semantic differences between the various types of links represented in Twitter . More specifically , we explore the relationship between users and topics with respect to two types of edges . A follow link indicates that one user is reading what the other is writing . A retweet link is formed when one user reposts what another user posted .
The importance of understanding the semantics of a link becomes even more apparent when using them in a ranking algorithm . The problem of finding topic specific influential Twitter users has recently been examined [ 26 ] , showing that follow links are correlated with topical similarity of user interests . Our research complements this work by showing that retweet links are better suited for inferring a user ’s topical relevance than follow links .
We demonstrate this property by identifying relevant users for a particular topic . Given a seed set of users relevant to a topic , we compute “ topic sensitive ” PageRank [ 21 ] on two sub graphs of the Twitter graph , one based only on follow links and another based on retweet links . We then evaluate the topical relevance of the resulting high ranked users . Our experiments indicate that the high ranking users based on retweets are more likely to remain topically relevant then the
1http://wwwalexacom/siteinfo/twittercom 2http://siteanalyticscompetecom/twittercom/ high ranking users based on follow links . In other words , the act of repeating a user ’s post carries a stronger indication of topical relevance .
To better understand why follow links are less suited for determining topical relevance , we explore the notion of a user ’s dual role on Twitter . That is , each user acts both as a content consumer , or reader interested in what other users post , and as a content producer , or writer by publishing new posts . A user follows other users because she is interested in reading the topic(s ) they write about . On the other hand , other users follow her because of the topic(s ) she writes about , which may differ from what she reads . Our experiments highlight the potential disconnect between a user ’s topical relevance as a reader and as a writer , and clarifies the transitivity of topical relevance over links on Twitter .
The rest of this paper is structured as follows . We begin with a discussion of some influential related work in Section 2 . Section 3 briefly introduces basic , important aspects of Twitter and defines some of the terminology used throughout the paper . In Section 4 we describe how common Web modeling techniques can be adapted or augmented to better represent the structure of Twitter . In Section 5 we analyze a large dataset collected from Twitter and compare it to the Web . In Section 6 we take a closer look at global rankings over Twitter and comment on some of the interesting aspects of the data . The results of our experiments for ranking users with topic sensitive PageRank are described in Section 7 . We conclude and describe some future work in Section 8 .
2 . RELATED WORK
One of the goals of this paper is to provide insights towards a better understanding of the overall structure of Twitter . Comprehensive studies of the Web graph [ 17 , 4 ] have exposed significant underlying features of the link structure , including confirmation of power law distributions of inlinks and outlinks and studies of connected components . These studies have had tremendous influence on key areas of Web research , such as crawling strategies and ranking algorithms . Researchers have also studied the structure and growth of particular sites in the past . Almeida et al . [ 22 ] study user behavior on Wikipedia , observing trends such as an exponential increase in contributing users over time and a powerlaw distribution for users making edits to pages . Weng et al . present analysis of follow relationships and posting frequency for a small set of approximately 6800 Twitter users in Singapore [ 26 ] . Our work includes similar analysis on a larger dataset of approximately 1.1 million users .
Blogs and social networks have received significant attention in recent years as well . Studies have investigated reading and posting behavior [ 25 ] , blogger influence on the public [ 8 , 9 , 19 , 20 ] , and the general structure of Web communities [ 7 ] or the blogosphere as a whole [ 16 ] .
The rapidly increasing popularity of Twitter has sparked the interest of many researchers in recent years . Huberman et al . observe that a user ’s true “ friends ” are typically a very small subset of those they follow [ 11 ] . Krishnamurthy et al . [ 15 ] study the growth and the usage of patterns in Twitter , including examining the source of posts ( SMS , Web clients , Facebook , and so on ) and geographic locales . Ramage et al . [ 23 ] first categorize Twitter posts into four broad categories using a survey of Twitter users , then filter tweets into these categories according to their topics . Sarma et al . [ 6 ] try to improve the ranking accuracy for the “ Twitterlike ” postings in forums with a comparison based mechanism , such as thumb and star ratings . Ritter et al . [ 24 ] propose an unsupervised approach to model dialogue in Twitter , which aims to identify strong topic clusters within noisy conversations . Java et al . [ 12 ] study the Twitter graph and applications of the HITS algorithm [ 14 ] for detecting user intent . Their observations of power law distributions for links agrees with our findings .
Some of the closest work to our own [ 26 ] extends PageRank to Twitter , making use of follow relationships in the Twitter graph as well as topical similarity derived from the user ’s tweets to find influential users for various topics . Our work is complementary , examining the semantics of follow links more closely and proposing retweet links as an additional or alternative source of information .
In the Web ecology project [ 3 ] , Twitter users are ranked with different criteria such as number of followers , average content spread per tweet , average conversation activity per tweet , and so on . None of these ranking mechanism utilizes retweet information . TunkRank [ 2 ] proposes a ranking mechanism to identify the most influential Twitter users . They describe a notion of a user ’s “ influence ” as the expected number of users who will read a tweet from them , whether directly as a follower or via a retweet . This influence is propagated in the graph among user , similar to the work in [ 26 ] , where the weights are propagated along the follow links . Their work acknowledges that retweets are important for probabilistically determining how far a user ’s post will propagate , and is thus factor in measuring their overall influence . They do not focus on topic sensitive ranking , however , and only propagate influence over follow links .
3 . TWITTER 101
Twitter is a blogging platform which allows registered users to publish small articles of text though multiple interfaces , including Web , SMS , and instant messaging . Each post , or tweet 3 , is limited to a maximum of 140 characters , leading to the description of Twitter as a micro blogging platform .
On Twitter every user has dual roles , both as a publisher of posts , or writer , and as a subscriber , or reader of other ’s posts . As a reader , a user may choose to follow another user ’s posts . The set of users you follow are referred to as your friends ( this terminology can be a bit confusing as , despite its symmetric sounding nature , the relationship is only one way ) , and the set of users who follow you are called your followers . All of the posts from a user ’s friends are accessible via a private stream , sorted by their publication timestamp . For the vast majority of users , their friends , followers , and posts are publicly accessible through both a Web interface and through published REST APIs ( the Twitter API4 ) .
The basic structure of friend and follower relationships described above is enforced through Twitter ’s implementation and the APIs they make available to third party developers . However , there are also interesting structural phenomenon resulting from social conventions which have “ naturally ” evolved in the Twitter community . For example ,
3In this paper we use the terms post and tweet interchangeably 4http://devtwittercom/ when publishing a post which references another user , that user is referred to by their username prefixed with the ‘@’ character . This is called a mention of the user by the author of the new tweet . A more specific type of mention occurs when a user chooses , for the benefit of his followers , to repeat another user ’s post . In this case , he prefixes the content of that post with “ RT @ ” followed by the username of the original author of the post . This type of post is referred to as a retweet . To reiterate , these last two examples began as social conventions amongst Twitter users and , until recently , were not explicitly representable in the Twitter API .
In recent months Twitter has added an explicit retweet mechanism , though the style of interaction differs somewhat from the “ old style ” retweets . A user cannot modify the text of the post she is repeating when using the newer explicit retweet method . Also , third party websites are increasingly placing “ retweet ” buttons on their articles , which allows a user to click and generate a “ retweet ” with a link to the page . Despite this new API , the original style of retweeting remains common . As their semantics ( eg forwarding interesting content to followers ) are similar , in this paper we refer to both the original and new styles of retweeting simply as retweets .
A second recently added feature on Twitter allows users to construct and organize a group of users referred to as a list . The users followed by a list are referred to as the list members . Lists help a user to , for example , focus on the posts of certain subsets of their friends or follow a group of users en masse . Roughly speaking , lists on Twitter fall into two broad categories : topical lists and classification lists . Topical lists are generally centered around the discussion of common interests or subjects , such as “ politics , ” while classification lists are generally formed to group users who share a common trait , such as “ celebrities ” or “ professional athletes ” . As a side effect , lists generate meaningful manually created categorizations of users .
In the next section we more formally define the content and structure of Twitter . We define the Full Twitter graph and introduce a simplified Twitter graph , and compare them to the Web graph .
4 . MODELING TWITTER
In this section we introduce a graph representation of Twitter information and compare it with the Web graph , which has been extensively studied in the past [ 17 , 4 ] . In the graph model of the Web , pages are represented as nodes and the hyperlinks connecting them are represented as directional edges . This model enables the application of many graph analysis techniques , such as inlink and outlink distributions and the PageRank [ 21 ] algorithm .
4.1 The Full Twitter Graph Model
The Web graph is commonly represented as an n by n matrix M , where n is the number of pages on the Web . Mij is equal to 1 if page j contains a link to page i and has a cj total of cj outgoing links .
The Twitter graph is inherently more complex . First , there are at least two types of entities which could be represented as nodes : users and tweets . Second , there are at least four types of relationships between these nodes which would be represented as directional edges : follows , publishes , retweets , and mentions .
Tweet User Publish Tweet Mention Retweet
User Follow
Table 1 : Twitter Graph Edges
A follow edge from user ua to user ub exists if ua follows the posts of ub . A publish edge from user ua to post pa indicates authorship of the post . Both of these edge types stem from the enforced structure of Twitter , and the graph containing just these two edge types we call the Enforced Twitter graph .
We define the Full Twitter graph by including two additional edge types , representing relationships inferred from the posts when assuming the social conventions discussed earlier . We create a retweet edge from post pa to post pb if pa is a retweet of pb , and a mention edge from post pa to user ub if pa mentions ub . These four edge types are summarized in Table 1 .
Interestingly , the type of edge in this model is uniquely identified by the types of vertices it connects . As a result , no special distinction is needed for the edge type in the graph . The graph is thus a simple directed graph whose vertices can be divided into two disjoint sets : U and P , corresponding to the users and posts , respectively .
The matrix representation of the Twitter graph can be modeled identically to the Web graph using T , a |U | + |P | by |U | + |P | matrix where |U | is the number of users and |P | is the number of posts . A non zero value in Tij represents an edge between node i and node j , the semantics of which are defined in Table 1 .
4.2 Additional Twitter Information
There are three important pieces of information that are not captured in this graph representation , which we briefly mention here .
421 Time
The most notable omission from the graph relates to the temporal nature of the data . Twitter includes timestamp information for when each post was written as well as when accounts were created . There is no explicit way to determine when a follow link was created using the public API , though going forward these can be approximated with repeated crawling . Time data would prove valuable for studying factors such as evolution of the graph [ 18 ] or charting popularity over time , but was omitted here for clarity and as it is not necessary for the focus of this paper .
422 Hyperlinks
The second type of information excluded from this graph are standard hyperlinks embedded in the posts . Extending the graph to include hyperlinks would require crossing boundaries between Twitter and the Web at large , complicating the analysis we wish to discuss here . As an intermediate step , our model could be augmented with a third node type representing a Web page , uniquely identified by a URL . A directed edge indicating a reference to the page ’s URL would exist from any post pa to the “ Web page node ” whose URL appears in its content .
A minor difficulty modeling hyperlinks in Twitter is the common use of URL shortening services . Links or URLs are
5 and bit.ly typically shortened using services like TinyURL to stay within the post size limit . This prevents making use of keywords or other interesting artifacts the URL may contain directly , and makes additional processing of the data necessary . Whenever link analysis for URLs is done , URL normalization would likely be required .
6
423 Post Content
We use the content of a post primarily to extract metadata : username mentions and the identification of retweets for generating mention and retweet edges , respectively . The remaining textual content of a post can potentially be useful toward determining the topics of interest to a user as well , though the small size of the posts introduces several difficulties , including sparsity of data and tokens resulting from frequent use of nonstandard shorthand notation .
4.3 The Simplified Twitter Graph
The Full Twitter graph GF attempts to represent all the important entities and relationships in Twitter . We will now describe a simplified Twitter graph GS which only includes user nodes , while still capturing the most important information from the original representation as it pertains to the users .
The user user follow links remain as they are from the Full Twitter graph . However , for every retweet edge from post pa , written by user ua , to post pb , written by user ub ( the original post ’s author ) , we add a retweet edge in GS from user ua to ub . For simplicity , we omit mention links in GS . While simplifying the graph by removing the post nodes altogether , this new representation requires us to explicitly note the different edge types , as the properties and semantics of follow and retweet edges differ . For the experiments presented later in this paper , we use the simplified GS graph .
5 . ANALYSIS OF THE GRAPH
In this section we take a closer look at the data itself . All the figures , unless specified otherwise , are derived from a dataset we collected between October 2009 and January 2010 . The dataset includes over 1.1 million Twitter users , with more than 273 million follow edges and over 2.9 million retweet edges . The data was collected by beginning with an initial seed set of the top 1000 users in twitterholic.com and crawling in a BFS manner , traversing the follow links in a forward direction .
7
5.1 Link Distributions
We look deeper at the Twitter user ’s graph by investigating the inlink and outlink distributions of the different edge types . We begin by looking at follow edges .
511 Follow Edges
Figure 1 shows a log log scale of the inlink and outlink frequencies . Both plots , as in the Web graph inlink and outlink distributions analyzed by Broder et al . [ 4 ] , show a generally power law distribution .
Figure 1(a ) shows the inlink distribution , or how users are followed as writers . The graph only includes users who
5http://tinyurl.com/ 6http://bit.ly/ 7http://twitterholic.com/ have at least one follower , and relatively few users have over 12,000 followers . Manual inspection of these highly followed users indicates the majority are related to professional organizations ( CNN ) , or celebrities and public figures ( Ashton Kutcher , Barack Obama ) .
The outlink distribution is plotted in Figure 1(b ) , showing how users act as readers . Again , the plot shows several interesting traits , including a large spike around the 20 friend region . An unusually high number of users follow exactly 20 other users , which is very likely a side effect of Twitter ’s account signup process , which provides an initial a set of 20 “ recommended ” users to follow . Another large spike appears exactly on the 2000 friend mark , which is likely due to the restrictions Twitter places on following more than 2000 users8 .
We computed the power law exponents for the inlink and outlink distributions of retweet and follow links , using a nonlinear least squares ( NLLS ) algorithm by MarquardtLevenberg implemented as part of the gnuplot package . Follow inlinks have a power law exponent of −1.6237 with an asymptotic error of 0.001977 ( 01218 % ) This value is lower than the values measured for the Web [ 4 ] and those for earlier studies on Twitter [ 12 ] , which were found to be around 2.1 and 2.4 , respectively . As a result of the noisy outlink data , although the data appears power law , we were unable to find a reliable fit for the exponent .
512 Retweet Edges
The two distributions relating to retweets appear in Figure 2 . The retweet inlinks distribution , or number of unique users who retweeted at least one post of the user , is shown in Figure 2(a ) . This distribution is similar to the other power law distributions we have seen , with a power law exponent of −2.01108 with a high asymptotic standard error of 0.001167 ( 0.05804% ) , closer to typical values for the Web . The retweet inlinks following a distribution similar to hyperlinks on the Web might be more than just a coincidence . A retweet edge is similar in nature : a link from one author to another , typically considered an indication of relevance or quality of the content , much like a hyperlink between two pages on the Web .
The retweet outlinks , or number of unique users whose posts were retweeted by a given user , is shown in Figure 2(b ) . This distribution , unlike the others ( including the number of friends , or users a person follows ) , does not seem to follow the power law distribution . That is , while the number of friends one has is generally power law , the number of users one finds truly interesting ( or worth repeating ) does not appear to scale in a similar fashion . We considered a log normal distribution as well , which also did not prove to be a good fit .
513 Posting Frequency
We next examine the posting frequency behavior of users . Figure 3 shows , on a log log scale , the number of posts published vs . the number of users writing that many posts for 417,613 users during the one month period of December 2009 . From our data set we excluded the 683,347 users who did not publish any posts during the month from the graph , and due to API restrictions limiting us to collecting only the most recent 200 posts per user , we also excluded the 5,760
8http://helptwittercom/forums/10711/entries/68916
( a ) Inlinks ( followers )
( b ) Outlinks ( friends )
Figure 1 : Follow Inlink and Outlink Distributions
( a ) Retweet Inlinks
( b ) Retweet Outlinks
Figure 2 : Retweet Inlink and Outlink Distributions users whose first collected post occurred after December 1 and last post occurred on or before December 31 .
The plot shows a few interesting trends , including a large group of over 58,000 users who published only a single post during the month . It also shows a large number of users wrote more than 100 posts in the 31 day span .
Figure 3 : Tweet Frequency
Figure 4 : Reading , Writing , PageRank , and Originality
5.2 Graph Formation
In the previous section we examined the general link distributions and observed that most tend to follow a power law distribution , similar to those found in the traditional Web graph . In this section we take a deeper look at the connections between the inlinks and outlinks , as well the connection between the different edge types .
521 Readers and Writers
An interesting aspect to consider is the overall posting behavior of a user , and possible connections between the user as a reader and the user as a writer . Three potential scenarios are : ( 1 ) a user acts primarily as a reader ( sink ) with little or no posts , ( 2 ) a user frequently retweets posts of interest but writes little to no original content , acting primarily as a filter of their friend ’s content , and ( 3 ) a user contributes significant new content .
Figure 4 shows the differences between user ’s reading and writing behavior for a period of 31 days starting mid October 20099 . In this figure , each dot represents a unique user . The x axis denotes the combined number of posts written by the user ’s friends , and the y axis the number of posts published by the user , both of which are log scales . The size of each dot indicates the user ’s PageRank based on follow edges ( we will discuss more in Section 6 how this is computed ) , and the shade indicates the “ originality ” of their posts . The lighter shades indicate less “ original ” content , meaning a larger percentage of the users posts are in fact retweets instead of new , original content .
The general trend shows that , for users who post very frequently ( the upper portion of the graph ) , a larger fraction of their posts are actually retweets . We also observe an interesting phenomenon : many users retweeted at least
9This graph was produced from a smaller crawl of over 120,000 users collected between October and November of 2009 one post which they did not read from one of their friends . For example , the vertical line at x = 0 are users whose friends collectively wrote zero posts , yet many of these users published retweets . This suggests that , despite the explicit friendship links available in the site structure , it is still not possible to know exactly what a user reads . For example , many websites ( such as the WSDM2011 homepage10 ) are adding modules which display Twitter results .
6 . EXPLORING LINK SEMANTICS
The Twitter graph model we presented in Section 4 includes two main types of entities : users and posts . Exploring the ranking of either would be of interest . In this paper , however , we focus on investigating the semantics of follows and retweets edges , highlighting their suitability for ranking users for topical relevance . In this section we present a closer look at the semantics for the two types of edges .
6.1 Link Semantics
On the Web , a link from page a to page b signifies an endorsement of the quality of page b , and to some extent its relevance to page a . In the simplified Twitter graph there are two distinct link types , and they each carry different significance .
Similar to a link on the Web , a follow link on Twitter from user a to user b can be understood as an endorsement of quality or interest . However , the semantics of the link actually state that user a , acting as a reader , is interested in user b acting as writer . This distinction is especially significant for any attempt at a recursive definition of importance which requires link transitivity : if the topics a user writes about are important to you , how important to you , if at all , are the topics which they read ?
Compare this with the semantics of a retweet link . A
10http://wwwwsdm2011org/ retweet link is also expected to signify an endorsement of quality , however in different roles . User a will retweet the posts of user b if he either is interested in writing about the topic or expects his readers to be interested in this post . Thus a retweet edge signifies a connection from user a as a writer to user b as a writer . We expect this link to carry both an endorsement of quality and that of relevance , and thus carries a stronger topical signal . meme , a site similar in nature to the social bookmarking site digg . Users can easily retweet stories with a single click , and the most retweeted stories are presented on the front page . Tweetmeme also allows embedding of retweet buttons on other sites , further facilitating retweeting of their posts . This helps explain why the site is ranked number one in the retweet rankings while still being relatively low in followbased PageRank at rank 4 , 610 .
6.2 Retweet vs . Follow based Ranking
Based on the above intuition we expect that PageRank computed over different edges will produce significantly different results . On the one hand , follow links ( when viewed in a recursive sense ) are primarily an indication of importance or “ trustworthiness ” . Retweet links , however , are a more direct indication of topical importance or writing “ interesting ” posts .
In order to gain further intuition of the different semantics that retweet links and follow links carry , we computed PageRank over the following two sub graphs of the simplified Twitter graph introduced in Section 4.3 : a graph consisting of retweet links only , and a graph consisting of follow links only . Their distributions are plotted in Figure 5 . The retweet based ranking displays a relatively simple power law distribution with a drop around the 7th ranked user . The follow based ranking distribution also has a drop , around the 14th ranked user , but it appears to consist of two different segments with different power law coefficients . It is difficult to determine the exact cause of such an artifact .
We view the two rankings against each other in Figure 6 . The highest ranked user , according to the follow links , is the current President of the United States , Barack Obama . While his status as a significant public figure alone is sufficient to explain the high ranking , his appearance in Twitter ’s recommended users list , a list that used to appear during the signup process , likely contributed . This would be another manifestation of the “ rich get richer ” phenomenon found on the Web [ 5 ] . Another interesting thing to note , however , is that according to the retweet based ranking , he is only the 33rd highest ranked user .
Figure 6 : PageRank over Retweet links vs . Follow links
The top user according to retweet based PageRank is tweet username Follow based Retweet based barackobama 1 aplusk 2 petewentz 3 theellenshow 4 5 the real shaq 7 mrskutcher johncmayer 9 10 iamdiddy
32 9 54 57 51 87 12 15
Figure 7 : Top 10 Follow based and Top 100 Retweetbased username Retweet based Follow based nytimes mashable ddlovato perezhilton aplusk
30 60 72 15 2
3 5 7 8 9
Figure 8 : Top 10 Retweet based and Top 100 Followbased
Next we look closer at users who rate highly under both rankings . Figure 7 lists the ranking of the top 10 users according to follow based PageRank that are also in the top 100 according to retweet based PageRank . We can see that nearly all of them can be considered “ high ranking ” public figures or celebrities .
Compare this to the “ opposite ” side of the figure , users ranking among the top 10 based on retweet links and among the top 100 by follow links . These rankings are summarized in Figure 8 . Three of the five : mashable , the New York Times , and Perez Hilton can be classified as news generating entities . Ashton Kutcher is the only user who appears in the top 10 for both rankings .
Finally , there are cases where the rankings appear affected by spam or “ marketing ” techniques . When examining ddlovato ( actress and singer Demi Lovato ) , the retweets by her followers seems to suggest at least some are in fact set up by marketers . For example , the account ddlovatoRT openly states that its purpose is to simply retweet all posts mentioning Demi . While spam will always a concern , Twitter ’s research team estimates that less than 1 % of Tweets are now spam[1 ] .
6.3 Link “ Virality ”
From an empirical analysis of these two different rankings , it appears that follow links capture the quality of a user being popular or well known , while retweet links capture the quality of being influential or producing newsworthy or topically relevant posts . Next we wish to gain some insights into possible relationships between the two link types by examining possible interactions between them .
( a ) Follow based PageRank distribution
( b ) Retweet based PageRank distribution
Figure 5 : Follow based and Retweet based Ranking
Define RoF ( u ) ( “ Retweeted by Friends ” ) as the set of unique users whose posts have been retweeted by one of the friends of user u . That is , RoF ( u ) are the users who u has seen at least one post from via a retweet . Let F r(u ) be the set of users whom user u follows . We define Retweet Virality as : rv(u ) =
RoF ( u ) ∩ F r(u )
RoF ( u )
Similarly , define the F oF ( u ) ( “ Friends of Friends ” ) as the set of users the friends of u follow . That is , F oF ( u ) is the set of all users who are reachable by traversing exactly two directed follow edges in the Twitter graph , starting from u . Follow Virality is then defined as : fv(u ) =
F oF ( u ) ∩ F r(u )
F oF ( u )
Retweet Virality measures the probability that a follower of user ua is following user ub , given that user ua retweeted a post from ub . Follow Virality measures the probability that a follower of ua is following user ub given that ua follows ub . Figure 9 plots the values of Retweet Virality and Follow Virality for 500 randomly selected users from our dataset . The results show that Retweet Virality is consistently higher than Follow Virality . While this comparison does not measure what direct influence observing retweets might have on a user , the consistently higher Retweet Virality suggests that retweets demonstrate a stronger notion of importance or influence to users . In particular , it suggests that users are more likely to follow people they see retweeted than those who are merely “ Friends of Friends ” . Determining what factors lead to generation of a follow link , and in particular whether observation of retweets plays a direct role , is an intersting area for further research .
7 . EXPERIMENTS ON LINK SEMANTICS We now describe the results of our experiments which demonstrate the topical relevance of links in the Twitter graph . These experiments will show that follow links , even from a set of topically similar users , quickly diffuse into a broad range of topics . Retweet links , meanwhile , remain
Figure 9 : Virality of Retweet and Follow Relationships more concentrated on the original topic . The data used for the graph in these experiments is the same as described in Section 4 , with over 1.1 million users , 273 million follow edges , and 2.9 million retweet edges in the graph .
7.1 Empirical Results
We performed a preliminary , empirical evaluation on a small data set to give some insight into the characteristics of the links . Starting from a seed set of users who are members of the same topical list ( see Section 3 ) , we generate two sets of users . The first set comprises all users who are exactly one follow edge away from any of the seed members ( that is , at least one seed member follows them ) . The second set contains the users who are exactly one retweet edge away from the seed members ( that is , at least one seed member has retweeted one of their posts ) .
We selected a random sample of 25 users from each of these sets and manually assessed them for topical relevance . We repeated this experiment for two different lists , one focused on “ photography ” and the other on “ design ” . The results show that , while the number relevant users in the follow generated samples were 4 and 5 , the number of relevant users in the retweet generated samples were 19 and 20 , respectively .
7.2 Topic Sensitive PageRank
The PageRank algorithm , first proposed in [ 21 ] , describes a recursive ranking formula which , on a high level , proposes that a page is as important as the pages pointing to it . This ranking can also be explained using the Random Surfer Model , which describes the notion of an abstract surfer who starts on a random Web page p with some pre set probability tp . He repeatedly clicks on outgoing links with uniform probability d until he gets “ bored ” . At each step , instead of clicking on a link , the surfer ( with probability 1 − d ) , chooses to jump to any random page p with probability tp . The PageRank of a page p is then the probability that a random surfer is on page p at any given time .
The significance of altering or biasing these “ jump probabilities ” were demonstrated for the purposes of both personalizing the ranking [ 13 ] and combating Web spam [ 10 ] . The main idea behind these works was that , if you are more likely to start each new surfing session with trusted pages , or pages relating to a certain topic of interest , the highestranking pages are more likely to be trustworthy or topically relevant pages , respectively .
The TwitterRank algorithm [ 26 ] , which makes use of follow links , is compared against other ranking strategies including classic PageRank and personalized or “ topic sensitive ” PageRank ( TSPR ) for making user recommendations . The authors note that the results are somewhat mixed , and the improvements offered by TwitterRank are not significant in most of their evaluations . Thus for simplicity , we use topic sensitive PageRank to quantify the difference in topical relevance carried by follow and retweet links .
For our second experiment , we use topic sensitive PageRank for ranking users relative to a particular topic . Beginning with a topical Twitter list , we compute topic sensitive PageRank over the Twitter graph for both follow and retweet edges individually . Intuitively , if the links carry the “ topicality ” well , the high ranking users are likely to be topically relevant to the original seed topic . We evaluate the resulting highest ranked users for relevance to the original topic with a user survey .
721 Experimental Setup
For our evaluations we manually collected 9 topical lists from listorious.com , a directory of popular lists on Twitter . These lists were selected to cover a broad range of topics and tags , such as politics , technology , and economic issues . The lists varied in size from 19 to 437 users , with an average of 155 and median of 49 users . These seed users had an average of 14 , 284 followers . For each of these lists we computed personalized PageRank over the two different edge sets for the Twitter graph , using the list members as the trusted seed set . We selected the 30 highest ranking non seed users for each graph variation .
To evaluate the relevance of these top ranked users to the original topic , we conducted a survey . Participants were shown a topic description along with the 30 highest ranked users for either a follow based or a retweet based PageRank , ordered randomly and mixed with a random set of 10 of the seed users for that topic . They were instructed to make a binary judgment of each user ’s relevance to the topic by inspecting the content of their tweets , biography , username , and any external websites listed on their profile . A total of 12 people participated in the survey . Each list was evaluated by at least 2 people .
722 Precision of Top Ranked Users
Link Follow Retweet
Precision Relevance
0.451 0.601
0.548 0.704
Table 2 : Precision and Relevance by Link Type
The first metrics we consider evaluate the accuracy of the highly ranked users with respect to the original topic . We define the Precision and Relevance for a set of users U as :
Precision(U ) =
1 k X k
|Rk(U ) ∩ U |
|U |
Relevance(U ) =
| Sk Rk(U )|
|U |
( 1 )
( 2 )
Rk(U ) is the set of users from U judged relevant in evaluation k of a particular list . Precision measures the average relevancy of a set of users , while Relevance 11 measures the fraction of users who were judged relevant by at least one survey taker . Table 2 shows the Precision and Relevance for follow links and retweet links , averaged over the 9 different topical lists .
The results show that the overall topical precision of top ranked users can be improved by over 30 % by simply using retweet links instead of follows links in the topic sensitive PageRank computation . To verify these results , we computed the statistical significance of the difference in Precision between follow and retweet links with a two sample t test . The resulting p value p = 0.0446 suggests that the results are in fact statistically significant with 95 % confidence .
723 Cohesiveness of Seeds
To verify the seed users were an accurate reflection of the intended topic , we included 10 randomly selected seed users for each evaluation . The sample seed users had an average Precision of 0.931 across all 9 topics , with a minimum of 0.838 and a maximum of as 10 This indicates that the seed users represented their topics well , and that our survey takers understood and agreed upon the topic definitions .
724 Popularity of Relevant Users
We observed that the relevant users discovered by retweet links have , on average , fewer followers than those discovered by follows links . While this is a somewhat expected result , we wanted to quantify the difference . We computed the average number of followers for all users identified as relevant by at least one survey taker . For the relevant users discovered by follow based links , the average number of followers was 257 , 088 . For retweet based links , the average was 75 , 851 . We again computed the statistical significance of the difference between the two , with p = 00011
The number of followers a user has is not directly related to their relevance for a particular topic . Topically “ interesting ” users are not necessarily the most or least popular . It is interesting to note , however , that for both follows and retweets , the average number of followers for the relevant users is higher than the average seed user .
11While the metric appears similar to recall , we avoid using that terminology here because the complete set of relevant users is not fully known .
7.3 Discussion
Our initial experiment shows that traversing even a single follow link dramatically reduces the probability of topical relevance . Propagating the topical influence of a user over these follow links is thus problematic , as weight is quickly assigned to irrelevant users . Our experiment with topic sensitive PageRank is effectively a recursive version of this simpler evaluation . With the follow link structure of Twitter users easily accessible , it is indeed tempting to directly exploit it in any user ranking or recommendation task . The end result of our experiments show , however , that by propagating a specific type of weight ( in this case , a user ’s topical relevance ) over links which are not very likely to carry that type of relationship , we wind up with a less accurate ranking .
8 . CONCLUSION
Twitter ’s importance stems not only from its high traffic ranking , but also the amazingly rich structure it provides and realtime information it makes available . In this paper we have described a detailed model of Twitter as a graph , described key statistics about the graph , and provided some initial insights as to how the graph forms . We have demonstrated important distinctions between edge types in the graph , noting that the varying semantics and properties of these edges will have significant implications on graph algorithms such as PageRank . In particular , we have shown that retweet edges preserve topical relevance significantly better than follow edges .
In a sense , Twitter could be considered a sign of things to come . We can expect the trend of expanding site specific , rich , structured data to continue from other sources . For example , large scale RDF data sets such as DBpedia contain millions of nodes and billions of edges conveying a wide variety of semantic relationships . For most ranking applications , these edges should probably not be treated equally . In this paper we have demonstrated the importance of adapting the “ tried and true ” algorithms , which have proven effective on the Web , to the specific semantics captured in the structured data they are being applied to .
9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] State of twitter spam : http://blogtwittercom/2010/03/state of twitterspamhtml
[ 2 ] Tunkrank : http://tunkrankcom/ [ 3 ] The web ecology project : http://wwwwebecologyprojectorg/
[ 4 ] A . Broder , R . Kumar , F . Maghoul , P . Raghavan ,
S . Rajagopalan , R . Stata , A . Tomkins , and J . Wiener . Graph structure in the web . Computer Networks , 33(1 6):309–320 , 2000 .
[ 5 ] J . Cho and S . Roy . Impact of search engines on page popularity . In WWW ’04 , pages 20–29 , 2004 .
[ 6 ] A . Das Sarma , A . Das Sarma , S . Gollapudi , and
R . Panigrahy . Ranking mechanisms in twitter like forums . In WSDM ’10 , pages 21–30 , 2010 .
[ 7 ] G . W . Flake , S . Lawrence , and C . L . Giles . Efficient identification of web communities . In KDD ’00 , pages 150–160 , 2000 .
[ 8 ] K . E . Gill . How can we measure the influence of the blogosphere ? In WWW ’04 , May 2004 .
[ 9 ] D . Gruhl , R . Guha , D . Liben Nowell , and A . Tomkins .
Information diffusion through blogspace . In WWW ’04 , pages 491–501 , 2004 .
[ 10 ] Z . Gy¨ongyi , H . Garcia Molina , and J . Pedersen .
Combating web spam with trustrank . In VLDB ’04 , pages 576–587 , 2004 .
[ 11 ] B . A . Huberman , D . M . Romero , and F . Wu . Social networks that matter : Twitter under the microscope . CoRR , 2008 .
[ 12 ] A . Java , X . Song , T . Finin , and B . Tseng . Why we twitter : understanding microblogging usage and communities . In WebKDD/SNA KDD ’07 , pages 56–65 , 2007 .
[ 13 ] G . Jeh and J . Widom . Scaling personalized web search . In WWW ’03 : Proceedings of the 12th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 271–279 , New York , NY , USA , 2003 . ACM Press .
[ 14 ] J . M . Kleinberg . Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment . In ACM SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms , 1999 .
[ 15 ] B . Krishnamurthy , P . Gill , and M . Arlitt . A few chirps about twitter . In WOSP ’08 , pages 19–24 , 2008 .
[ 16 ] R . Kumar , J . Novak , P . Raghavan , and A . Tomkins . On the bursty evolution of blogspace . In WWW ’03 , pages 568–576 , 2003 .
[ 17 ] R . Kumar , P . Raghavan , S . Rajagopalan , and
A . Tomkins . Trawling the web for emerging cyber communities . In Computer Networks , pages 1481–1493 , 1999 .
[ 18 ] J . Leskovec , M . Mcglohon , C . Faloutsos , N . Glance , and M . Hurst . Cascading behavior in large blog graphs . In SDM , 2007 .
[ 19 ] Y M Li , C Y Lai , and C W Chen . Identifying bloggers with marketing influence in the blogosphere . In ICEC ’09 , pages 335–340 , 2009 .
[ 20 ] R . L . P . Melville , V . Sindhwani . Social media analytics : Channeling the power of the blogosphere for marketing insight . In WIN ’09 , 2009 .
[ 21 ] L . Page , S . Brin , R . Motwani , and T . Winograd . The pagerank citation ranking : Bringing order to the web . Technical report , Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project , 1998 .
[ 22 ] J . C . R . Almeida , B . Mozafari . On the evolution of wikipedia . In ICWSM ’07 , 2007 .
[ 23 ] D . Ramage , S . Dumais , and D . Liebling .
Characterizing microblogs with topic models . In ICWSM ’10 , 2010 .
[ 24 ] A . Ritter , C . Cherry , and B . Dolan . Unsupervised modeling of twitter conversations . In HLT NAACL , 2010 .
[ 25 ] K . Sia , . C . J , K . Hino , Y . Chi , S . Zhu , and B . Tseng . Monitoring rss feeds based on user browsing pattern . In ICWSM ’07 , 2007 .
[ 26 ] J . Weng , E p Lim , J . Jiang , and Q . He . Twitterrank :
Finding topic sensitive influential twitterers . In WSDM ’10 , 2010 .
