We Feel Fine and Searching the Emotional Web
Sepandar D . Kamvar
Stanford University sdkamvar@stanford.edu
ABSTRACT We present We Feel Fine , an emotional search engine and web based artwork whose mission is to collect the world ’s emotions to help people better understand themselves and others . We Feel Fine continuously crawls blogs , microblogs , and social networking sites , extracting sentences that include the words “ I feel ” or “ I am feeling ” , as well as the gender , age , and location of the people authoring those sentences . The We Feel Fine search interface allows users to search or browse over the resulting sentence level index , asking questions such as “ How did young people in Ohio feel when Obama was elected ? ” While most research in sentiment analysis focuses on algorithms for extraction and classification of sentiment about given topics , we focus instead on building an interface that provides an engaging means of qualitative exploration of emotional data , and a flexible data collection and serving architecture that enables an ecosystem of data analysis applications . We use our observations on the usage of We Feel Fine to suggest a class of visualizations called Experiential Data Visualization , which focus on immersive item level interaction with data . We also discuss the implications of such visualizations for crowdsourcing qualitative research in the social sciences . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H52 Information Interfaces and Presentation : User Interfaces , H4m Information Systems : Miscellaneous General Terms : Design , Human Factors Keywords : Sentiment Analysis , Social Media , Search , Computational Social Science
INTRODUCTION
1 . The growth of the social web and the corresponding rise in available emotional text over the past several years has led to an increased interest in sentiment analysis . Research in sentiment analysis has concerned itself primarily with algorithms for the extraction of text spans that contain a viewpoint and the classification of those text spans [ 20 ] . Typical motivating applications have been technologies that help consumers make purchase decisions , for example , classifying a movie review as “ thumbs up ” or “ thumbs down ” [ 19 ] . However , the large scale availability of emotional text – especially when coupled with the availability of demographic information from social media profiles – gives us the ability
Jonathan Harris jjh@number27.org
Number 27 to do much more than make better decisions about products or politicians . It gives us the ability to better understand emotions themselves .
In this paper , we present We Feel Fine , a project that aims to collect the world ’s emotions to help people better understand themselves and others . Since August 2005 , We Feel Fine has been harvesting human feelings from a large number of weblogs . Every few minutes , the system searches the world ’s newly posted blog entries for occurrences of the phrases “ I feel ” and “ I am feeling ” . When it finds such a phrase , it records the full sentence and identifies the “ feeling ” expressed in that sentence ( eg sad , happy , depressed , etc ) Because blogs are structured in largely standard ways , the age , gender , and location of the author can often be extracted and saved along with the sentence . The result is a database of several million feelings , increasing by 10,000 15,000 new feelings per day . Using a series of playful interfaces , the feelings can be searched and sorted across a number of demographic slices , offering responses to specific questions like : do Europeans feel sad more than Americans ? Does rainy weather affect how we feel ? And so on .
We developed We Feel Fine in 2005 2006 and launched it in May 2006 . From launch until time of submission , We Feel Fine has collected over 14 million expressions of emotion from 2.5 million people , has been used by 8.5 million visitors , and has been exhibited in several museums , including the Victoria and Albert Museum ( London ) , the National Museum of Contemporary Art ( Athens ) , and the Museum of Fine Art ( Houston ) . We Feel Fine is available at wwwwefeelfineorg
Figure 1 : We Feel Fine Search Panel
2 . DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS Our goal with with We Feel Fine was to enable both a qualitative and statistical exploration of other people ’s emotions . Our belief was that statistical analyses would support a cognitive understanding of emotional patterns , while immersive interaction with individual stories would support a more visceral understanding of the nature of emotions . This latter focus on intuitive understanding through qualitative exploration is a markedly different approach from most work in sentiment analysis , which largely focuses on algorithmic analysis of sentiment text around a given topic .
We found that creating an immersive means of interacting with individual data items directly affected the end user in line with our mission of helping people to understand themselves and others . Further , the qualitative and statistical exploration of data that is personal and universal appealed to a broad set of users , enabling crowdsourced data analysis . We discuss these effects in Section 6 ; in this section we discuss the principles that engendered these effects . We considered the following principles in our design :
1 . Sentence level analysis . The basic atom of the informational web is the web page , so it is natural for informational search engines to analyze and return pages . On the social web , the basic unit is often much shorter – the post or tweet or short social network message . Further , people often express emotions at the sentencelevel ; rarely is an entire document about a single emotion . For these reasons , we use sentences rather than web pages as the canonical “ documents ” in the search engine .
2 . Indexing context . Through public profiles and timestamps , there is much useful context to an emotion outside of the words in the expression itself , for example , the time of the emotion , or the location , gender , and age of the person expressing the emotion . Appropriate index and interface design enable users to ask questions like : “ how do women feel right now ? ” or “ how did people in the US feel on September 11th ? ”
3 . Sentiment as the primary organizing principle . Most sentiment analysis search engines aim to understand more about certain topics by exploring the prevailing emotions around those topics . With We Feel Fine , the primary aim is to understand more about emotions themselves . As such , we focus on sentiment as the primary organizing principle . This dictates a wide range of design decisions . For example , we use a faceted search interface that focuses on emotions and people rather than a free form search box , and we index a wide range of emotions rather than simply classifying emotions as positive or negative .
4 . De emphasizing ranking . While factual information can be ranked by validity or authority of the source , it is much more difficult to rank sentiment . In keeping with the old adage “ feelings are never wrong ” , thousands of different expressions can be equally reasonable responses for a query like “ how do you feel about going to college ? ” For this reason we don’t introduce the notion of ranking in We Feel Fine .
5 . Emphasizing browsing and summarization . Rather than ranking expressions of emotion , we prefer to to summarize them — allowing the user to quickly get the gestalt of how a population feels . Further , since users can gain intuition through qualitative exploration of a population , we aim to provide easy browsing as well .
6 . Enabling the user to easily shift between macro and micro . In the last bullet , we emphasized the ability to see data at the macro level ( summarization ) and the micro level ( browsing ) . It ’s also important to allow the user to easily shift between the two . In shifting from micro to macro , the user can better understand trends exposed through summarization . And in shifting from micro to macro , the user can generalize intuitions gained from browsing . Where possible , we wish to create graphs from individual clickable atoms of data ( macro to micro transition ) . And we wish to label items of data with search terms , allowing the user to easily summarize or see more data of that type ( micro to macro transition ) .
7 . Visualizations that reflect the data . The interface should be functional , but not cold — after all , this is a search engine about emotions . An ideal UI should reflect the subject matter , and in this case , we crafted the elements of the visualization to have human qualities to reflect the people they represent .
8 . Direct Access to the Data . We recognize the value of We Feel Fine ’s underlying data for social scientists , particularly those interested in large scale studies of emotion . We also recognize the difficulty in designing an interface that is intended to be both an artwork and a scientific tool . It is with this in mind that we built a data API for direct data access .
3 . ARCHITECTURE The architecture of the We Feel Fine system is composed of five main components , the Crawler , the Indexer , the Data Store , the Web Server , and the Client Applications . We give a brief overview in this section . We describe the user interface in more detail in Section 4 and data analysis components at greater depth in Section 5 .
Crawler . A URLServer ( 1 ) collects the URLs of pages to be crawled . These pages contain blog posts , microblog feeds , and pages with public social network messages . URL extraction and collection is site specific ; for example , LiveJournal has a “ recently posted ” API , while for MySpace , we crawl the friend graph . The URLServer sends the list of urls to the Crawler ( 2 ) , which feches the pages from the web . At the moment , the Crawler is a single dedicated machine , but has been designed so that we can easily add more crawling machines if desired .
Indexer . The Crawler then sends the fetched pages to the Feeling Indexer ( 3 ) , which extracts the feeling sentence or sentences , the time and date of the post , and any demographic information ( such as gender , age , and location ) . Currently , the Feeling Indexer does extraction by matching hand crafted regular expressions , although certainly there are more sophisticated techniques that may be used . The Feeling Indexer sends the sentence to the Emotional Lexicon , which determines whether there is a feeling word in the sentence ( like “ happy , ” “ sad , ” etc. ) , and if so , sends the of the post to the Weather Server ( 5 ) , which determines the weather using several public weather databases .
Data Store . When the Feeling Indexer has finished processing the URL , it send the feeling sentences and metadata to the We Feel Fine Database ( 6 ) , a MySQL database that stores the emotional data , including sentence , feeling , date , time , URL , weather , and author gender , age , and location . At the moment , the We Feel Fine Database is a replicated database server that has been designed to be easily sharded by date range if desired .
Web Server . Several components communicate with the We Feel Fine Database . The API Server ( 10 ) defines a RESTful API , translating specified URLs into SQL queries , and then returning the SQL results to the browser as XML . To decrease query latencies , we cache the most common queries and store the results in the Query Cache ( 8 ) . The Sentiment Mining Server ( 9 ) consists of a set of functions that post process the results of an API query , computing statistics on the data set on demand . The Montage Server ( 11 ) allows the generation of image/sentence composites , called montages . Given a sentence id , the Montage Server will return the feeling sentence overlaid on the largest image from the same blog post . If there are no images on the same post , it will simply return the sentence .
Client Applications . The We Feel Fine Frontend ( 13 ) is a Java applet written using Processing [ 7 ] . It translates user actions into API queries and sends them to the API Server , and translates the returned XML formatted results into interactive visualizations . The We Feel Fine Frontend is described in depth in Section 4 . Users may choose to save a montage from the applet to the Montage Gallery ( 14 ) , a gallery of user saved montages . And finally , since the API is public , there are dozens of Third Party Applications ( 12 ) that use the API .
4 . USER INTERFACE 4.1 Design The We Feel Fine Frontend is a Java applet intended to encourage item level data exploration , as well as some shallow statistical exploration . It is composed of six movements — called Madness , Montage , Murmurs , Mobs , Metrics , and Mounds — each giving a different view of a sample population selected by a Search Panel .
Search Panel . The Search Panel ( Figure 1 ) allows the viewer to choose the sample population on screen . The red bar at the top of the screen presents a summary of the current sample population . Clicking the bar causes the panel to open , and viewers can select the population along any combination of the following axes : Feeling , Age , Gender , Weather , Location , Date . The faceted interface of the Search Panel reflects Principles 2 and 3 in Section 2 . The focus is on searching for emotions or populations , and the various facets are made possible by indexing context .
Figure 2 : We Feel Fine Component Diagram feeling word(s ) back to the Feeling Indexer . If there are images in the post , the Feeling Indexer determines the largest image in the post ( by file size ) and sends it to the Image Repository ( 7 ) . For those posts where the location is specified , the Feeling Indexer sends the location , time , and date
Madness . Madness , the first movement , is a playful interface to interact with individual data items . It opens with a swarming mass of 1500 particles , emanating from the center of the screen and then careening outwards , bouncing off walls and reacting to the behavior of the mouse . Each par ticle represents a single feeling . The color of each particle corresponds to the tone of the feeling inside — happy feelings are bright yellow , angry feelings are red , and so on . Any particle can be clicked at any time , revealing the sentence inside ( along with the photo if there as one ) and information about the sentence ’s author . As the particles move around the screen , they lose speed and eventually freeze as they approach the mouse cursor , allowing them to be clicked . As the particles approach the bottom left corner of the screen , they become attracted to it and swarm around it , drawing the eye to a menu that gives access to the other five movements of We Feel Fine .
The design of the Madness movement was motivated by Principle 7 in Section 2 . The tiny colorful particles represent a bird ’s eye view of humanity — like standing atop a skyscraper and looking down at the street . People bustle to and fro , darting in and out of shops , hailing taxis , falling in love , laughing , handling personal crises . From the skyscraper , the notion of individuality is hard to recognize . However , once a particle is clicked , it explodes into its constituent letters , which form its sentence , and that particle becomes the center of attention . At this moment , the viewer sees the open sentence as the only one that matters .
Figure 4 : Montage
Figure 3 : Madness
Murmurs . Murmurs presents a structured environment in which to view feelings . As this movement begins , every particle on screen gently floats upwards , eventually bouncing off the ceiling several times before settling . Then , one by one , the particles drop from the ceiling to join a simple scrolling list of feelings , organized in reverse chronological order . The sentences appear letter by letter , as if being typed by their author , and fade to black as new sentences appear . The strict formal constraints of Murmurs help to emphasize the polarities in the types of feelings present in the world . Some are mundane , some are funny , some are poignant . As they march along , the feelings begin to strike a common chord .
Montage . Montage presents the feelings from a given population that contain photographs , and displays these photographs in a simple grid of variable size , depending on the number of photographs available . Any photograph in the grid can be clicked , causing it to zoom in to the size of the screen . When zoomed , a photograph ’s associated sentence
Figure 5 : Individual Montage is revealed . Any user may save a montage to the Montage Gallery , allowing anonymous viewers of We Feel Fine to collaboratively curate an exhibit of beautiful , surprising , or otherwise interesting images .
Mobs . Mobs consists of five smaller movements , each of which uses the particle system to configure its shape , color , distribution and physics to best express the different zeitgeists of : feeling , gender , age , weather , and location . For example , Mobs ( Feeling ) displays the most common feelings in the sample population on a histogram . In each of the other Mobs movements ( Gender , Age , Weather , and Location ) , the particles similarly self organize to form summary graphs . In Mobs ( Location ) ( Figure 7 ) , for example , they arrange themselves on a map . This movement aims to summarize the data set as per Principles 4 and 5 in Section 2 . Consistent with Principle 6 we enable macro to micro transitions by allowing the user to click on any particle in a graph to see the underlying feeling sentence .
Metrics . Metrics , the fifth movement , consists of five smaller movements . While Mobs expresses the features that are most frequently expressed in the sample population , Metrics expresses the features that are most differentially expressed
Figure 6 : Mobs ( Age )
Figure 8 : Metrics ( Weather ) discussing We Feel Fine . These posts and comments are clearly not a scientific sample , as only a small fraction of the most highly enthusiastic or web savvy users will blog or comment about an application that they’ve used . Nonetheless , we found that this examination was a useful complement to the lab study , both in reinforcing some findings from the lab study , and suggesting further hypotheses . In fact , we were surprised at the extent to which the comments from participants in the lab study were similar to comments on blogs discussing We Feel Fine . We drew inspiration and methodology for the two studies from [ 11 ] and [ 25 ] .
The participants of the lab study consisted of 10 males and 10 females , ages 18 61 , of varying levels of internet expertise . To maintain ecological validity , we did not give the users any specificed tasks , nor did we require them to read the detailed description of the applet available on the website . Rather , we told them to spend 15 minutes exploring the site , and to talk through their exploration . We video recorded the screen and audio recorded the user ’s comments . We interviewed the subjects afterwards .
While we imagined that we would get feedback on usability of the visualization , we were surprised to find that the users were far more inclined to talk about the emotional effects of the underlying data itself . There were two strong patterns : an increased emotional self awareness and an increased sense of connection to others .
Emotional Self Awareness . Almost all participants in the study exhibited a heightened self awareness and self reflection of their own emotions . In almost every user study , the subject started talking about how she felt around the middle or end of the session , even though we did not prompt them to do so . One participant in the study said :
“ Now I just want to give a little personal note here . I am sitting here in the afternoon reading these really deep esoteric statements by people from who knows where and I’m really enjoying myself right now . It feels surreal , sitting here talking to somebody who I have just met and will not see again and seeing the emotions of people who I do not know or will not meet . I feel pretty good .
Figure 7 : Mobs ( Location ) from the global average . For example , Mobs shows that the feeling ‘better’ is almost always the most commonly expressed feeling in any sample population , because it is such a common feeling . In Metrics , however , ‘better’ will only be listed if it ’s much more expressed in the sample population than it is in a randomly sampled population .
Mounds . Mounds , the final movement , is independent of the sample population , always displaying every feeling in our database , scaled and sorted in order of frequency . Each feeling is portrayed as a large bulbous mound , colored to correspond to the feeling it represents . The mounds jiggle slightly when undisturbed , and bend away as the mouse cursor approaches their perimeter . A small scrollbar below the mounds allows the viewer to jump to a specific point in the feelings list . Above each mound is listed its feeling , along with its and the total number of occurrences in the database .
4.2 Usage Observation To evaluate our design , we observed usage in an informal laboratory setting . Additionally , as We Feel Fine has been discussed extensively in the blogosphere by its users , we found it useful to examine the the blog posts and blog comments
( a )
( c )
( b )
( d )
Table 1 : Some uses of We Feel Fine API : ( a ) a prayer tool for nuns in a convent in England , ( b ) The Arhus city tower in Denmark , lit up according to how Denmark was feeling at any moment , ( c ) a robot that mixes the user a drink based on the sample population the user chooses , and ( d ) a mashup with Google maps , showing Feelings around the world .
This heightened emotional self awareness was echoed in the blogs that discussed We Feel Fine . It was very common for a blog post describing We Feel Fine to end with how the blogger was feeling ( and many of them emphasized the words “ I feel ” ) . For example :
I feel happy , tired , and lucky to have such great friends ( online and offline ) .
Interestingly , the commenters on these blog posts would also often chime in with how they were feeling , resulting in a stream of feelings in the comments section . Many participants in the study also noticed that their own emotions mirrored those of the people in the piece :
“ I searched the word ‘abhorrent’ and I actually felt a little of what the bloggers were feeling . I felt I needed to get to a different ( non negative ) feeling soon after reading the sentences . And , of course , I felt fat ( which I am ) when I searched for that feeling . This is very interesting to me . ”
Empathy . In addition to self awareness , the participants also reported a feeling of connection and empathy . In many of the sessions , the subjects talked back to a feeling sentence in the applet as if it were the person :
Applet : “ I feel like I’m way too abrasive or mean to people . ” Participant : “ Well , that ’s very honest of you . ”
In the interviews afterwards , several participants expressed feeling “ empathetic , ” “ close , ” “ more connected , ” and “ less lonely ” . One participant noted :
“ I could see myself using this to find people who are feeling bad and try to cheer them up . ”
And many participants and bloggers commented that they project their own experience on to the emotions that they see . One blogger noted :
“ While using We Feel Fine , I see the words ‘I feel scared because’ and I immediately recall what that feels like . Suddenly my experience becomes much more personal and I feel connected with a person I have never met . I then observe thousands of other dots like it and my thoughts are bouncing between this micro and macro level of connectivity . ”
Study participants and bloggers described feeling a sense of connection and belonging to the world around them .
“ It is comforting if you are feeling down to search by ‘sad’ or ‘sorry’ , and see millions of others who share your sentiment . You feel less alone and the world seems smaller . ”
“ I feel that witnessing everyone ’s feelings of failure and success gives me a keen sense of belonging in the world . ”
Perhaps as a result of both the feelings of self awareness and connection , several people in the study expressed feeling calm , relaxed , or grounded after their exploration . Some describe an increased ability to manage their own emotions . One study participant noted :
“ I feel much more relaxed right now than I have certainly today and probably all week . I feel like I can take a breath and look outside and actually enjoy the rain . A little while ago it was just annoying me , because it meant I had to do cleanup in the yard and all the other things that responsibility entails in instead of enjoying what ’s going on in the world and smelling the roses . ”
5 . API While the We Feel Fine frontend gives the user a qualitative view of emotions ( along with some shallow statistics ) , large scale quantitative analysis of the data requires different tools . To support such statistical analyses , we built the We Feel Fine API and Sentiment Mining Server .
5.1 Design We Feel Fine ’s API consists of two components : a RESTful API that returns data given a query , and a Sentiment Mining Server that computes basic statistics over an API query . The API is an RESTful API that translates a url to a SQL query on the We Feel Fine database , and returns the results in XML , HTML , CSV , or plain text . A user may query by feeling , gender , agerange , weather conditions , location , and date . The API returns the feeling sentence and any additional information requested by the user . The API is open and documented at http://wefeelfineorg/apihtml The Sentiment Mining Server consists of a set of functions that postprocess an API query to compute elementary statistics on the data set . It includes functions that : query ( by date , month , year , and day of week )
• return the feeling frequency histogram for a given query • return the word frequency histogram for a given query • give the demographic breakdown for feelings expressed • give a time breakdown for feelings expressed by a given • categorize feelings into the eight principle emotions as • categorize feelings into positive or negative • scores sentences for valence , arousal , and dominance • compare any of the above functions to a reference query , so that , for example , the user can see if a certain feeling is overexpressed as compared to average . based on the ANEW [ 1 ] scoring system . by a given query described in Plutchik [ 21 ] .
What is remarkable about the We Feel Fine data serving infrastructure is how expressive it is given its simplicity . The data collected by We Feel Fine uses regular expression matching for information extraction rather than more sophisticated extraction methods [ 20 , 16 ] . And the statistical tools provided by the Sentiment Mining Server give only frequencies and hand assigned categorizations . Nevertheless , the API and Sentiment Mining Server support a wide array of uses , and We Feel Fine has been surprisingly accurate both in replicating existing results in the psychology literature [ 12 ] and in suggesting new hypotheses that have then been confirmed by controlled lab experiments [ 17 ] . Some examples use cases are described below .
5.2 Usage Observation The Meaning of Happiness . The study by Mogilner et al . [ 17 ] on the “ meaning ” of happiness is one of the most interesting examples of how We Feel Fine works in tandem with traditional experimental methods in emotions research . The We Feel Fine data showed that the co occurrence of excited feelings and happy feelings decrease as people grow older , while the co occurrence of peaceful feelings and happy feelings increase . This was tested by a controlled lab experiment where a group of subjects were influenced to feel excited or peaceful , and then measured for their happiness levels afterwards . In the lab study , younger people felt happier when influenced to feel excited , while older people felt happier when influenced to feel peaceful
[ 17 ] .
Hedonometer . Dodds and Danforth [ 4 ] have built a “ hedonometer ” based on We Feel Fine data and the ANEW scoring system [ 1 ] , computing a happiness score for any population . Using this hedonometer , they measured happiness levels in the United States over time , and correlated it with the happiness measures from song lyrics and presidential addresses .
The Emotions of Aging . One of the most pronounced results to come from our own study of this data set was how people ’s emotions vary with age [ 12 ] . Figure 9 shows that people express considerably less anger , disgust , and sadness as they get older . This is consistent with the psychology literature [ 15 ] , but allows for greater granularity in determining , for example , what kinds of sadness decrease most .
Time series Analyses . Figure 10 shows several time based analyses of emotions [ 12 ] . When Obama was elected on November 4th , 2008 , there was a spike in the feeling “ proud ” — it was the proudest day on record since we started collecting emotions in 2005 . There were also spikes in “ excited ” and “ hopeful ” and a smaller spike in “ depressed . ” On Valentine ’s Day , we see a recurring spike in people feeling “ loved ” and “ special ” , and also a spike in people feeling “ lonely . ” We also see a marked difference in stress between the week and weekend , and happiness expressed in the morning vs . night .
The Emotional Graph . Figure 11 shows emotions that are frequently co expressed in the same sentence [ 12 ] . It shows that there are strong relationships between anger and depression , disgust and shame , and happiness and gratitude . Moreover , it shows that broadly , positive feelings tend to not co occur often with negative feelings , with a few exceptions . While there exist studies that show connections between anger and depression [ 18 ] and gratitude and happiness [ 24 ] , this graph suggests links that are less well studied , such as pride and shame .
Artistic Purposes . The API has been also used widely for artistic and emotional purposes . For example , Gaver et al . [ 8 ] designed a “ Prayer Companion ” as a resource for the spiritual activities of a group of cloistered nuns in Northern England . Podenphant [ 22 ] created an installation in which he lit up the historic Arhus , Denmark city hall tower according to how people were feeling at any time in Denmark . And Molenaar and Grob created a robot that mixes a drink for a user based on the feelings returned by the user ’s We Feel Fine Query .
6 . DISCUSSION Perhaps the most interesting contribution of We Feel Fine is in its focus on engaging the user at an emotional level .
Figure 10 : Time Series Analyses
While we chose to do so because it seemed appropriate in a tool intended to study emotions , it has had a couple of unintended and broad reaching consequences . First , it showed that exposition of data can confer non cognitive benefits , suggesting new areas for data visualization . Second , the emotional effect of the visualization led to broad and extensive usage that effectively involved millions of people in small scale qualitative research on emotion . Both of these merit further discussion .
6.1 Experiential Data Visualization Our aim for We Feel Fine was to collect the world ’s emotions to help people better understand themselves and others . It appears to have succeeded in this aim in a surprising way . While data visualization has been defined as a tool to amplify cognition [ 2 ] , the primary responses in the user study were affective . Indeed , cultivating emotional self awareness
Figure 9 : The Emotions of Aging and empathy are key factors in developing emotional intelligence [ 23 ] . This suggests that data visualization can be used for more than exposing patterns in data .
More concretely , the observations from the user study suggest a class of visualizations that we call Experiential Data Visualization . Visualizations of this type would share three properties : first , they would communicate insights that are often simply communicated in words , but much more powerfully communicated by example1 ; second , they would focus on interaction models that encourage direct interaction with individual data items ; and third , they would focus on influencing affect rather than cognition .
Indeed , we found that the participants in the study who spent most of their time in the Madness and Murmurs movements were more likely to describe the applet as “ calming ” and “ grounding ” and their post study observations were more likely to be along the lines of “ It really changed my mood which was surprising ” while participants who spent most of their time in Mobs , Metrics , and Mounds movements were more likely to describe the applet as “ interesting ” or “ intriguing ” , and their observations were more likely to be along the lines of “ It was interesting that the feeling ‘blessed’ was more prevalent on Christmas . ”
We suggest that the design principles described in Section 2 are useful guiding principles not just for We Feel Fine , but for Experiential Data Visualization in general . In particular , Principles 1 and 4 7 give visualization mechanisms for immersive interaction with individual data items . In the case of We Feel Fine , Principle 3 ensures that the data influences affect , but for other projects , one may replace Principle 3
1For instance , one may argue that you don’t need an interactive data visualization to communicate that you are not alone in your emotions . However , that is more powerfully expressed by showing the emotions of others , in the same way that lessons about love are often easily expressed in words , but more powerfully learned by actually being in love . with a principle that ensures that the data is personal and universal to the target audience . We subsequently used these principles in the design of I Want You To Want Me , an experiential visualization of data from online dating sites [ 10 ] , and have observed similar results .
6.2 Crowdsourced Data Mining Over 8 million people have visited We Feel Fine from 20062010 , each spending an average of close to 4 minutes exploring the data . The time spent on data exploration is equivalent to a staff of over 50 people working full time manually exploring the data set . This speaks for the potential of crowdsourced data analysis . While users of We Feel Fine are generally not trained data analysts and the time spent in exploration is often short , the insights from the community have been both real time and sophisticated . For example , we got many e mails on the day of Michael Jackson ’s death noting that there was an unusually high frequency of the feeling ‘sad’ , and we continue to get example backed hypotheses from our users as to the emotional difference between men and women . Indeed , most of our investigations are the result of hypotheses put forth by our users based on their exploration of the data . Other data visualizations have seen similar phenomena of crowdsourced data analysis , most notably NameVoyager [ 25 ] and Vizter [ 11 ] . What these interfaces share in common are that they explore personal , universal topics ( baby names , friends , emotions ) in a playful , aesthetically pleasing manner . What is unique about We Feel Fine in this context is that it allows for crowdsourced qualitative research , and many of the insights that people have sent to us include not only statistics , but detailed examples . The principles in Section 2 lend themselves well to this kind of crowdsourced data analysis , particularly Principles 5 and 6 .
It ’s interesting to note that the crowdsourced qualitative research is made much more compelling and actionable by the existence of the Sentiment Mining Server , with which we can quickly run statistical analyses to corroborate the crowdsourced hypotheses . Aggregating , communicating , and corroborating the insights of the crowd more seamlessly is an area of future work and has been explored in a different context in [ 25 ] .
6.3 Related Work Sentiment Analysis . There is a large body of work in sentiment analysis ; an extensive review of such work is given in [ 20 ] . Research in this area has focused largely on algorithms for opinion extraction and categorization . This is not the focus of this paper , and We Feel Fine uses deliberately simple methods for extraction and categorization . The contribution of this work to the sentiment analysis literature lies instead in outlining systems architecture and interface design principles for a sentiment analysis search engine , in showing some non cognitive effects of item level exploration of sentiment data , and in introducing the idea of crowdsourced sentiment mining .
Computational Social Psychology . Computational techniques for large scale data driven experiments in psychology are a fairly new development [ 13 ] . Pennebaker et al . have performed linguistic analysis on blogs to study personality and mood , for example , before and after 9/11 [ 3 ] . Christakis and Fowler have studied the spread of many emotions over social networks , as in [ 6 ] . While much of the existing literature is focused on specific scientific findings by computational means , in this work we are more concerned with developing a robust experimental infrastructure for use by others . We believe that well designed computational infrastructure to perform large scale association experiments will have a similar effect on the social sciences as the microarray [ 5 ] has had on the biological sciences . In this case , rather than looking at gene expression levels in tissue samples , we look at emotional expression levels in population samples .
Data Visualization . We Feel Fine was inspired in part by Listening Post [ 9 ] , an installation piece that culls text fragments from online chat rooms in real time and displays them on a grid of several hundred electronic screens . There exist other engaging artistic representations of human communication data as well , as well : The Dumpster [ 14 ] visualizes expressions of breaking up from blogs . I Want You To Want Me [ 10 ] crawls online dating sites for sentences that start with “ I am ” and “ I am looking for ” as well as other snippets . The contribution of this work is in defining a class of visualizations called Experiential Data Visualization , and suggesting design principles for such visualizations . 7 . CONCLUSION To date , most research in sentiment analysis has been focused on algorithms to extract , classify , and summarize sentiment . While this has clearly been useful , there remains a broad opportunity for researchers to build immersive interfaces that allow for item level exploration of sentiment data . This item level exploration of data can bring its own experiential benefits to the user , as well as enable crowdsourced qualitative data analysis . Further , while traditional motivating applications for sentiment analysis have been in consumer research and decision support tools , available sentiment data on the web can be used to build scalable computational tools to support social science research . Such tools have the potential to make a significant impact , allowing for social science researchers to run inexpensive large scale studies to generate data driven hypotheses . We present We Feel Fine as an exploration of these opportunities .
Acknowledgements We’d like to thank Susan Dumais , Martin Wattenberg , and Mor Naaman for their extensive comments on drafts of this paper .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . M . Bradley and P . Lang . Affective norms for English words . University of Florida Technical Report , 1999 .
[ 2 ] S . Card , J . Mackinlay , and B . Shneiderman . Readings in
Information Visualization . Morgan Kaufman , San Francisco , 1999 .
[ 3 ] M . Cohn , M . Mehl , and J . Pennebaker . Linguistic markers of psychological change surrounding September 11 , 2001 . Psychological Science , 15(10):687–693 , 2004 .
[ 4 ] P . Dodds and C . Danforth . Measuring the happiness of large scale written expression : songs , blogs , and presidents . Journal of Happiness Studies , 2009 .
[ 5 ] S . Fodor et al . Light directed , spatially addressable parallel chemical synthesis . Science , 1991 .
[ 6 ] J . Fowler and N . Christakis . Dynamic spread of happiness in a large social network . British Medical Journal , 3 , 2008 .
[ 7 ] B . Fry and C . Reas . Processing . MIT Press , Cambridge ,
2007 .
[ 8 ] W . Gaver et al . The prayer companion . In CHI , 2010 . [ 9 ] M . Hansen and B . Rubin . Listening post . Whitney Museum of American Art , 2003 .
[ 10 ] J . Harris and S . D . Kamvar . I want you to want me .
Museum of Modern Art , 2008 .
[ 11 ] J . Heer and D . Boyd . Vizster : Visualizing online social networks . In INFOVIS , 2005 .
[ 12 ] S . D . Kamvar and J . Harris . We Feel Fine : An Almanac of
Human Emotion . Scribner , New York , 2009 .
[ 13 ] D . Lazer et al . Computational social science . Science ,
323(5915):721–723 , 2009 .
[ 14 ] G . Levin and K . Nigam . The dumpster . Whitney Museum of American Art , 2006 .
[ 15 ] M . Lewis and J . Haviland Jones . Handbook of Emotions ,
Third Edition . Guilford Press , New York , 2008 .
[ 16 ] A . McCallum , D . Freitag , and F . C . N . Pereira . Maximum entropy markov models for information extraction and segmentation . In ICML , 2000 .
[ 17 ] C . Mogilner , S . D . Kamvar , and J . Aaker . How the meaning of happiness shifts across the life course . Social Psychological and Personality Science , 2010 .
[ 18 ] J . Mook et al . Anxiety , anger and depression : Relationships at the trait level . Anxiety , Stress , and Coping , 3(1):17–31 , 1990 .
[ 19 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . A sentimental education : sentiment analysis using subjectivity summarization based on minimum cuts . In ACL , 2004 .
[ 20 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis . Found . Trends Inf . Retr . , 2(1 2):1–135 , 2008 . [ 21 ] R . Plutchik . The emotions : facts , theories , and a new model . Random House , New York , 1962 .
[ 22 ] K . Podenphant . I am feeling . 2009 . [ 23 ] P . Salovey and J . Mayer . Emotional intelligence .
Imagination , Cognition , and Personality , 9:185–211 , 1990 . [ 24 ] P . Watkings et al . Gratitude and happiness : Development of a measure of gratitude , and relationships with subjective well being . Social Behavior and Personality , 31(5):431–451 , 2003 .
[ 25 ] M . Wattenberg and J . Kriss . Designing for social data analysis . IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics , 12(4):549–557 , 2006 .
Figure 11 : The Emotional Graph
