Understanding Offline Political Systems by Mining Online Political Data
David Lazer
Northeastern University
177 Huntington Ave Boston , MA 02115 dlazer@neuedu
Oren Tsur orentsur@seasharvardedu
Northeastern U . & Harvard U .
177 Huntington Ave Boston , MA 02115
Tina Eliassi Rad Rutgers University
110 Frelinghuysen Road Piscataway , NJ 08854 tina@eliassi.org
ABSTRACT “ Man is by nature a political animal ” , as asserted by Aristotle . This political nature manifests itself in the data we produce and the traces we leave online . In this tutorial , we address a number of fundamental issues regarding mining of political data : What types of data could be considered political ? What can we learn from such data ? Can we use the data for prediction of political changes , etc ? How can these prediction tasks be done efficiently ? Can we use online socio political data in order to get a better understanding of our political systems and of recent political changes ? What are the pitfalls and inherent shortcomings of using online data for political analysis ? In recent years , with the abundance of data , these questions , among others , have gained importance , especially in light of the global political turmoil and the upcoming 2016 US presidential election . We introduce relevant political science theory , describe the challenges within the framework of computational social science and present state of the art approaches bridging social network analysis , graph mining , and natural language processing .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Data mining ; E.1 [ Data Structures ] : Graphs and networks
Keywords Computational social science , political data , social and information networks , graph mining
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Mining of online socio political data can revolutionize our understanding of socio political systems . However , there exists an unfortunate gap between scholars in computer science and political/social sciences . This gap is manifested in the failure of both computer and political scientists to predict political events such as the ( magnitude of the ) Arab spring , the rise of ISIL ( aka ISIS ) , and the recent RussiaUkraine crisis , just to name a few . Computer scientists are often unaware of ( or at best agnostic to ) relevant social and political theories , which can lead to asking the wrong research questions and drawing erroneous socio political conclusions . Political/social scientists have deep knowledge of the socio political theories and fundamental insights on complex socio political systems , but they often lack the modeling and algorithmic expertise for learning and mining from massive amounts of data . This disparity can lead to using naive ( inadequate ) methods , setting up experiments incorrectly , misinterpreting empirical results , and misprediction of the existence or magnitude of major events . The goal of this tutorial is to bridge the aforementioned gap by covering the relevant socio political theories and the state of art algorithms in natural language processing , social network analysis , and graph mining . We demonstrate the great potential in this interdisciplinary collaboration by showcasing several success stories .
2 . TUTORIAL DESCRIPTION
The tutorial is divided into three sections ( one section per hour ) . In the first hour , we present socio political theories that have been used successfully in computational social science studies . In the second hour , we overview state of the art algorithms in mining socio political networks . In the third ( and last ) hour , we discuss recent algorithmic successes that utilize both natural language processing and social network analysis .
First hour : Socio political theories . We introduce computational social science , focusing on political science . We cover the following four areas :
• Socio political theory • Empirical political science • Demographic modeling and its challenges • The importance of networks in analysis of socio political data
Second hour : Mining socio political networks . We give an overview of the state of the art algorithms for learning and mining from socio political network data . We cover the following areas :
• Community detection • Role discovery
687 • Event prediction ( covering both causal and passive
5 . TUTORS’ BIOGRAPHIES predictions )
• Transfer learning
Third hour : Mining form and content . We discuss the connection between form ( ie , network topology ) and content ( ie , language ) in an influence maximization setting , bridging the gap between network analysis and natural language processing , focusing on the following methods :
• Topic models • Word embeddings • Time series analysis
Throughout the tutorial , we highlight success stories from collaborations between computer scientists and political/social scientists .
3 . TUTORIAL SLIDES AND RESOURCES The tutorial slides and list of resources are available at the following URL : https:// sitesgooglecom/ site/ orentsur/ wsdm 2016 tutorial political mining . The list of resources include select publications on the following topics :
• “ Polling ” by social media analysis • Political polarization in social media • Demographics of social media users • Sentiment analysis and opinion mining • Using machine learning for political analysis • Analysis of and prediction based on political texts • Prediction of global events • Community detection • Role discovery • Transfer learning • Time series analysis
In addition , the aforementioned URL has links to datasets and publicly available software .
4 .
INTENDED AUDIENCE AND PREREQUISITE
The intended audience are researchers and practitioners who want to learn about algorithms and applications of mining online socio political data , supported by political science theory . There are no prerequisites . Our emphasis will be on the intuition behind all the formal concepts and tools .
• David Lazer is Distinguished Professor of Political Science and Computer Science at Northeastern University . He is one of the leading figures in computational social science . Educated in political science at the University of Michigan , he began his career at the Harvard Kennedy School . He subsequently accepted a position at Northeastern to establish the Lazer Lab on computational social science . His research focuses on the nexus of network science , computational social science , and collaborative intelligence . He is the founder of the citizen science website Volunteer Science and the political visualization website VisPolics . His research has been published in such journals as Science , PNAS , the American Political Science Review , Organization Science , and the Administrative Science Quarterly , and has received extensive coverage in the media , including the New York Times , NPR , the Washington Post , the Wall Street Journal , and CBS Evening News .
• Oren Tsur is a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Network Science at Northeastern University and is affiliated with Harvard ’s School for Engineering and Applied Science ( SEAS ) and Harvard ’s Institute for Quantitative Social Science ( IQSS ) . He earned his PhD in Computer Science from the Hebrew University focusing on sentiment analysis and content based information diffusion . He currently combines natural language processing and network analysis in order to model and predict complex social dynamics . His work was published in both the NLP and the web/data science communities . Oren was invited to present his work in various research institutes as well as in industry leaders such as Yahoo , Microsoft and IBM . He coorganized the workshop on NLP and Social Dynamics at ACL 2014 .
• Tina Eliassi Rad is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Rutgers University . She earned her PhD in Computer Sciences ( with a minor in Mathematical Statistics ) at the University of WisconsinMadison . Tina ’s current research lays at the intersection of graph mining , network science , and computational social science . Within data mining and machine learning , her research has been applied to the WorldWide Web , text corpora , large scale scientific simulation data , complex networks , and cyber situational awareness . She has published over 60 peer reviewed papers ( including a best paper runner up award at ICDM 2009 and a best interdisciplinary paper award at CIKM 2012 ) ; and has given over 100 invited presentations . In 2010 , she received an Outstanding Mentor Award from the US DOE Office of Science .
6 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
For Lazer and Tsur , this work was supported in part by NSF CMMI 1125095 , by IARPA via Department of Interior National Business Center ( DoI/NBC ) contract D12PC00285 , and by ARO Grant No . 00003934 . For Eliassi Rad , this work was supported in part by NSF CNS 1314603 and by DTRA HDTRA1 10 1 0120 .
688
