Second Workshop on Search and Exploration of X Rated Information ( SEXI’16 )
WSDM Workshop Summary
Vanessa Murdock
Microsoft
Charles LA Clarke
Waterloo University
Jaap Kamps
Jussi Karlgren vanmur@microsoft.com claclark@plguwaterlooca kamps@uva.nl jussi@kth.se
University of Amsterdam Gavagai & KTH Stockholm
ABSTRACT Adult content is pervasive on the web , has been a driving factor in the adoption of the Internet medium , and is responsible for a significant fraction of traffic and revenues , yet rarely attracts attention in research . The research questions surrounding adult content access behaviors are unique , and interesting and valuable research in this area can be done ethically . WSDM 2016 features a half day workshop on Search and Exploration of X Rated Information ( SEXI ) for information access tasks related to adult content . While the scope of the workshop remains broad , special attention is devoted to the privacy and security issues surrounding adult content by inviting keynote speakers with extensive experience on these topics . The recent release of the personal data belonging to customers of the adult dating site Ashley Madison provides a timely context for the focus on privacy and security . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H330 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : General Keywords : Adult content ; Privacy and security ; Research ethics ; Research practice
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The second workshop on Search and Exploration of X Rated Information ( SEXI ) for information access tasks related specifically to adult content was held at WSDM’16 in San Francisco , building on the success of the first workshop at WSDM’13 [ 5 , 6 ] . The WSDM’13 workshop was the first of this kind that has been presented in the web mining and information retrieval communities , and for WSDM 2016 we proposed a second workshop that brings these issues to the fore . We intend an open and respectful discussion of issues about adult information access , which will illuminate the areas in which adult information access , and user generated adult content differ from standard information access , and standard user generated content . We seek to define a set of research areas which represent ethical and legal opportunities to explore the research questions surrounding adult content . Special care is given to ensure that no adult content is actually presented at the workshop , and that the discussion remains respectful and professional , and at the same time fun . While the scope of the workshop remains broad , the workshop has special theme : privacy and security issues surrounding adult content .
The recent release of the personal data belonging to customers of the adult dating site Ashley Madison provides a timely context for the focus on privacy and security 1 The data collected by adult sites , derived from both visitors to the site and providers of content , is arguably more sensitive than other commercial data , because of the controversial nature of the sites themselves .
Adult content is pervasive on the web , has been a driving factor in the adoption of the Internet medium , and is responsible for a significant fraction of traffic and revenues , yet rarely attracts attention in research [ 1 , 2 ] . The scientific community has spent considerable energy studying user generated content and information access on the web , to the exclusion of adult content . This is understandable , as the topic is distasteful to some , and requires special legal and ethical considerations when asking employees , contractors and students to analyze and process the data . Furthermore , methods that work for other types of information access behavior are assumed to work for all types of content , including adult content .
We argue that this is an incorrect assumption . In fact , even core concepts such as relevance and diversity , which are fundamental to any application involving information seeking and access , are defined differently for adult content . Adult queries frequently fall outside of the taxonomy of queries ( informational , transactional , navigational ) that applies to standard web queries . Users searching for adult content frequently have an entertainment need , rather than an information need . Thus , because of the nature of the content , the user may be more satisfied with multiple similar images , than with a set of search results that capture different meanings of the query terms . Furthermore , understanding that a user is searching for a term in an adult context often disambiguates the term .
For example , consider the query “ bikini . ” In a non adult context , the user might be querying about a ham and cheese sandwich , or may be interested in viewing catalog photos of bikinis to purchase , or perhaps would like images of the Bikini Islands . Since the search engine cannot be sure , one strategy is to represent multiple senses of the query in the results presented to the user . In an adult context , images of catalog photos , sandwiches and islands will be more than an annoyance . Images of people wearing bikinis , although repetitive and not representing a diverse sense of the query term , is what the user is expecting .
1http://wwwwiredcom/2015/08/happened hackers posted stolenashley madison data/ visited December 2015
697 Equal in importance to serving adult content in the best possible way , is the issue of avoiding serving adult content to those who are not looking for it . Many innocuous terms ( such as “ snake," “ cougar," “ swimsuit" ) have adult connotations . Understanding when a person uploading content is uploading adult content is important . Often the only information available to determine the adultness of an image or video are the vague tags the user applies . Complicating the interpretation of the tags is that adult content may be described euphemistically with ordinary nouns that reflect a particular visual imagery . Similarly , when a person issues a query , it is not always clear whether they are searching for adult content , and it is extremely important for the search engine to understand this before serving adult content to a person who is not expecting it .
2 . OPEN QUESTIONS
The workshop seeks a greater understanding of the particular issues in accessing adult content , especially user generated adult content on the web . The discussion is limited to adult content that is legal , although topics such as identifying online predators , child pornography , or human trafficking are within of the scope .
The focus of the workshop on privacy and security issues surrounding adult content , was chosen in order to put this area of research on the agenda , and explore the basic research questions that should be addressed in the field , the types of data needed for research , and and the barriers to doing research this area . Due to the lack of attention to this area of research there are many open questions . These questions include :
Classification Even researchers and search applications not interested in adult content will have to deal with it in order to avoid it— presenting adult content to innocuous searchers is clearly a massive failure both for the individual searcher as well as for the reputation of the service . What are automatic methods for identifying adult content , in particular adult user generated content ? How can we identify adult content in video , images , and text ? What is the best way to identify adult query intent , and deal with ambiguous requests ? What are the appropriate ad placement strategies in adult content ?
Access Access to adult content seems to require a different approach than the ubiquitous navigation search—with searchers exhibiting an exploratory information seeking behavior , characterized by a diverse set of relevance criteria . How should adult content be ranked ? How should search , exploration , and recommendation be balanced ? How does searching adult content relate to search on adult chat sites and social networks ? Is there a benefit to personalizing adult content ?
Evaluation Given the distinct nature of adult content and the diverse relevance criteria , appropriate evaluation is crucial . What is a relevant result , and what are suitable metrics for relevance ? Is adult content a recall oriented , or precision oriented task ? What is the right level of evaluation—individual requests or whole search sessions ? What is similarity and diversity in adult content ? How important is the avoidance of failure , relative to success ? Are searchers for adult content more tolerant of non relevant results ?
Ethics What are the ethical issues in working with adult content in an academic environment ? What are the ethical implications for the search industry , given that it partly facilitates the online adult industry ? How can adult material be made available so as to promote responsible behavior through the whole chain from production to consumption ? Is adult user generated content more ethical than professionally produced media ?
Security and Privacy Adult content is one of the primary vehicles for malware on the internet . In addition , as many adult content sites collect personally identifying data ( such as user names and credit card numbers ) , particular care must be taken to protect the data collected from visitors to the sites , as well as content providers . While users of these sites are not typically doing anything illegal , they provide an enticing target to thieves because of the controversial nature of the industry . In addition , as the adult entertainment industry moves toward content generated by private citizens , and away from large commercial producers , the potential for harm to private citizens producing the content increases .
The workshop aims to define a set of research areas , to elucidate the special issues surrounding the access of user generated adult content . A set of best practices for working with this data in an academic environment was discussed , and a research agenda for the near future was proposed . Special care is taken to select and moderate the program to present the information in a respectful and scientific manner .
3 . FORMAT AND PROGRAM
The workshop is planned to feature two keynote speakers , the first keynote addressing the technical engineering challenges of given access to , or avoiding , adult content on the Web , and the second keynote addressing the social aspects of online adult content .
Accepted papers include Largillier et al . [ 3 ] , who investigate the efficient filtering of adult web content , aiming to prevent surfacing this content in the wrong context . Mattmann et al . [ 4 ] study detecting human trafficking based on crawling ads related to them , revealing invaluable cues for law enforcement and governmental organizations to identify victims and intervene to aid them .
Short presentations by participants are also planned , along with a closing panel . A full report of the workshop will appear in the June 2016 issue of SIGIR Forum .
REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . Azzopardi . Searching for unlawful carnal knowledge . In
N . J . Belkin , C . L . A . Clarke , N . Gao , J . Kamps , and J . Karlgren , editors , Proceedings of the SIGIR’11 Workshop on “ entertain me ” : Supporting Complex Search Tasks , pages 17–18 . ACM Press , 2011 .
[ 2 ] A . C . Halavais . Small pornographies . SIGGROUP Bulletin ,
25(2):19–22 , 2005 . URL http://doiacmorg/101145/10677211067725
[ 3 ] T . Largillier , G . Peyronnet , and S . Peyronnet . Efficient filtering of adult content using textual information . In Murdock et al . [ 7 ] , pages 9–15 .
[ 4 ] C . Mattmann , G . Yang , H . Manjunatha , T . G . N , A . J . Zhou ,
J . Luo , and L . J . McGibbney . Multimedia metadata based forensics in human trafficking web data . In Murdock et al . [ 7 ] , pages 16–20 .
[ 5 ] V . Murdock , C . L . A . Clarke , J . Kamps , and J . Karlgren .
Report on the workshop on search and exploration of x rated information ( SEXI 2013 ) . SIGIR Forum , 47(1):31–37 , June 2013 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/24333962433507 [ 6 ] V . Murdock , C . L . A . Clarke , J . Kamps , and J . Karlgren , editors . SEXI’13 : Proceedings of the WSDM’13 Workshop on Search and Exploration of X rated Information , 2013 . ACM Press .
[ 7 ] V . Murdock , C . L . A . Clarke , J . Kamps , and J . Karlgren , editors . SEXI’16 : Proceedings of the WSDM’16 Workshop on Search and Exploration of X rated Information , 2016 . ACM Press .
698
