Query Understanding for Search on All Devices at WSDM 2016
Amit Goyal Yahoo Labs goyal@yahoo inc.com
Jianfeng Gao
Microsoft Research jfgao@microsoft.com
Hongbo Deng , Yi Chang {hbdeng,yichang}@yahoo
Yahoo Labs inc.com
It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the QRUMS 2016 , the workshop on Query Understanding for Search on All Devices , held as part of the WSDM 2016 conference in San Francisco , USA .
Theme and Purpose of the workshop : Query understanding has become a crucial component for today ’s search engines . It is important to improve query understanding as query formulation is the way through which users express their search intent to a search engine . With the ubiquitousness of mobile devices , it is even more important to better understand user intent as typing on mobile is hard and time consuming . This workshop focuses on query understanding for mobile search with a motivation of reducing user efforts in formulating queries and getting their expected search results quickly .
One of the most important problem in query understanding is Query auto completion ( QAC ) . QAC is the first service through which users interact with a search engine to input their search intent . QAC has to provide and update their suggestion lists based on each new character typed by the user in the search box . Returned suggestion lists are ranked based on different relevance models , such as most popular completion ( based on historical frequency counts from query logs ) [ 1 ] , time based ( giving more weight to breaking news or recent popular queries ) [ 10 , 12 , 11 ] , location based [ 9 ] , context sensitive ( based on user ’s context ) [ 1 , 5 ] , personalized ( based on user ’s profile ) [ 9 ] , click modeling ( based on user ’s past clicks ) [ 6 ] , user QAC interactions [ 8 , 4 ] , adaptive query auto completion [ 13 ] . QAC becomes even more important as the focus shifts from desktop search to mobile search . On mobile , due to small typing keyboard , it is even more important to exploit all user and its context information available on mobile to provide the user better search suggestions .
On query understanding and QAC : there is also a need of personalized and context models , especially for name queries . For example , a user may talk to his smart phone , “ forward an email to Bill ” . This implicitly triggers the query understanding engine to map “ Bill ” to a specific person in his/her address book . In such a case , contextual information , such as the content of the email to be forwarded and the user ’s recent communication patterns ( ie , how frequently she talks/emails to different Bill ’s ) , is instrumental . Similarly , if a user chooses to key in a person name , the engine should be able to suggest the full name based on the prefix the user types , eg , “ J ” → “ John ” or “ Jianfeng ” . The studies on how to improve personalized and contextual model for query auto completion/understanding are crucial to improve user experience ( especially for mobiles ) . Yet , there is not much research in the academic world .
Another important problem in query processing for mobile search is spelling correction [ 3 , 2 , 7 ] . Due to a small typing keyboard , users are more prone to make spelling mistakes . Spelling mistakes made on mobile can be a lot different than made on desktop , hence it is an interesting , important , and challenging problem to explore . We encourage researchers ( especially those from industry labs ) to explore the use of search logs to mine spelling correction patterns . For example , [ 3 ] reports a new speller that uses a set of large scale translation and language models that capture millions of spelling correction patterns learned from search logs .
Objectives : This workshop is dedicated to presentations and discussions on query understanding for mobile search . The workshop will bring together researchers from information retrieval , web mining , natural language processing , and machine learning , who are working on or interested in this area . It will provide a forum for the researchers to identify the issues and the challenges , to share their latest research results , to express a diverse range of opinions about this topic , and to discuss future directions . We believe that this workshop will become an important milestone in the advancement of query understanding for mobile search .
Review Process : The call for papers solicited submissions in the area of query understanding . Themes of interests were diverse and spanned query recommendation , query categorization , spelling correction , query reformulation , and QAC . Each submission was reviewed by at least three Program Committee members and final decisions were made by the workshop chairs . PC members include many experts in the field . We are grateful to all of them for their thorough and insightful reviews .
Program : In this year ’s workshop , we are delighted to have several invited talks as part of the workshop . Milad Shokouhi from Microsoft Research , Michael Bendersky from Google Research will give the invited talks .
We hope that you will find this workshop interesting and thought provoking and that the workshop will provide you
691 with a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world .
1 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Z . Bar Yossef and N . Kraus . Context sensitive query auto completion . In Proceedings of the International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , pages 107–116 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 2 ] H . Duan and B J P . Hsu . Online spelling correction for query completion . In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’11 , pages 117–126 . ACM , 2011 .
[ 3 ] J . Gao , X . Li , D . Micol , C . Quirk , and X . Sun . A large scale ranker based system for search query spelling correction . In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics , COLING ’10 , pages 358–366 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2010 .
[ 4 ] K . Hofmann , B . Mitra , F . Radlinski , and
M . Shokouhi . An eye tracking study of user interactions with query auto completion . In Proceedings of the 23rd ACM International Conference on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management , CIKM ’14 , pages 549–558 . ACM , 2014 .
[ 5 ] W . Kong , R . Li , J . Luo , A . Zhang , Y . Chang , and
J . Allan . Predicting search intent based on pre search context . In Proceedings of the 38th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 503–512 , 2015 .
[ 6 ] Y . Li , A . Dong , H . Wang , H . Deng , Y . Chang , and
C . Zhai . A two dimensional click model for query auto completion . In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR ) , pages 455–464 . ACM , 2014 .
[ 7 ] Y . Li , H . Duan , and C . Zhai . A generalized hidden markov model with discriminative training for query spelling correction . In Proceedings of the 35th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR ’12 , pages 611–620 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 8 ] B . Mitra , M . Shokouhi , F . Radlinski , and K . Hofmann .
On user interactions with query auto completion . In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR ) , pages 1055–1058 . ACM , 2014 .
[ 9 ] M . Shokouhi . Learning to personalize query auto completion . In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR ) , pages 103–112 . ACM , 2013 .
[ 10 ] M . Shokouhi and K . Radinsky . Time sensitive query auto completion . In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR ) , pages 601–610 . ACM , 2012 .
[ 11 ] S . Whiting and J . M . Jose . Recent and robust query auto completion . In Proceedings of the International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , pages 971–982 . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee , 2014 .
[ 12 ] S . Whiting , J . McMinn , and J . M . Jose . Exploring real time temporal query auto completion . In DIR , pages 12–15 , 2013 .
[ 13 ] A . Zhang , A . Goyal , W . Kong , H . Deng , A . Dong ,
Y . Chang , C . A . Gunter , and J . Han . adaqac : Adaptive query auto completion via implicit negative feedback . In Proceedings of the 38th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR ’15 , pages 143–152 . ACM , 2015 .
692
