WSDM 2016 Workshop on the Ethics of Online
Experimentation
Solon Barocas
Princeton sbarocas@princeton.edu
Fernando Diaz
Microsoft fdiaz@microsoft.com
1 . OVERVIEW AND MOTIVATION
Online experimentation is now a core and near constant part of the operation of a production online service , such as a web search engine or social media service . These are large scale experiments that involve research subjects often numbering in the hundreds of thousands and wide ranging , computer automated variations in experimental treatment . In some cases , the results of online experiments may be of use internally to optimize system performance ( for example , a test may be conducted to help make web page layout decisions ) . In other cases , the results may be of academic interest ( for example , an experiment may be conducted to test a hypothesis about human behavior ) . Because of their rapid deployment and broad impact , online experimentation systems provide an extremely valuable tool for scientists and engineers .
Despite this statistical power , in some situations , an online experiment can raise difficult ethical questions . One only needs to revisit the conversations resulting from the Facebook emotional contagion experiment to understand that some experiments may , at the very least , warrant careful review before being conducted . Since this episode , scholarship published mainly in the qualitative research and information law communities indicates that this may not be an isolated incident . Ethical and legal problems probably arise in other online experiments , published or not . As experimentation platforms and users become easily accessible , scientists and practitioners may increasingly put the well being and trust of end users at risk .
In light of these concerns , organizations often review online experiments before they are actually conducted . In production settings , the review process might vary with respect to formality or standards across companies and even groups within companies . When intended or used for academic publication , experiments or data may have undergone inconsistent review processes , some implementing academic style institutional review boards and others none at all . Although there is a suggestion that service providers are concerned about the wellbeing of end users , the community does not yet have a framework for “ best practices ” when it comes to reviewing online experiments , be they for internal or external consumption .
This workshop aims to draw together researchers from inside and outside of the computer science community in order to present and discuss ethical issues involved in these new experimentation systems . Because these conversations have already been happening separately in several different communities , a dialog such as that proposed by this workshop should provide a clearer understanding for both communities about the issues involved . Unlike the related forums in Section 4 , the proposed workshop provides an opportunity for practitioners , who are likely to be attending WSDM , to discuss these issues in depth with peers from disciplines outside of the computer science community . This is especially important as online experimentation begins to draw the attention of policymakers and regulators .
2 . SCOPE following communities :
We will encourage participation by individuals from the • practitioners who run online experimentation in production systems ( eg web search , computational advertising , news recommendation ) • researchers ( both inside and outside companies ) involved in the emerging field of computational social science , • critical commentators from more qualitative traditions in the social sciences , particularly communications and sociology
• scholars of information law and policy • experts in research ethics We believe that the first two communities will be wellrepresented at WSDM , which has traditionally been a venue attracting participation from those in academia and industry who work on large scale experimentation systems . We also believe that the convenient location of San Francisco will help attract participation from individuals outside of the computer science community , particularly those who work on legal or policy issues at major companies located in the Bay Area .
The types of topics being addressed in this workshop in clude:• case studies of ethical issues confronted by or overlooked in planning and executing an online experiment • comparison between production experiments for internal insights and industrial research for academic publication cfl 2016
695 move ahead or undergo sufficient ethical review
• collaboration between academic and industry researchers and the blurring of the line between scholarship and business operations • existing experiment review processes ( eg streamlining for rapid development settings ) , including oversight , accountability , and enforcement mechanisms • incentive structures that impact whether experiments • applicability of established research ethics principles • conditions or aspects of an experiment that act as triggers for ethical review ( or exempt the experiment from review ) • ethical issues in online experimentation that do not • formal regulations imposed from outside ( eg , professional societies’ policies , industry wide self regulatory programs , and law ) and procedures ( eg , informed consent at scale ) qualify as human subject research
3 . OBJECTIVES
For computer scientists , we believe that this workshop will promote a new area of research into the design of algorithms or best practices for considering ethics during experimentation , be it for academic or industrial ends . Along these lines , we also hope to have impact on training in data science and machine learning as it relates to ethics . For practitioners , we believe that these discussions may result in more consistent best practices across companies when it comes to ethics and trust from users . This may take the form of employee training or , in some cases , more standardized review processes .
For those outside of the computer science community , we hope that a closer dialog with practitioners will result in more nuanced policy recommendations . A better understanding of the scope and nature of online experimentation– and how it differs from earlier , offline versions of experiments– will be crucial to the development of appropriate and effective policy . Direct contact with practitioners will allow those working on ethics and policy to recognize where existing normative principles , regulatory frameworks , and institutional procedures work well in guiding online experiments and where they need to be revisited or rethought .
4 . RELATED WORKSHOPS
The Workshop on Fairness , Accountability , and Transparency in Machine Learning1 , run at NIP 2014 and ICML 2015 , brought together computer scientists , legal scholars , advocates , and policymakers to discuss how normative concerns should constrain the practical application of machine learning , but also how these concerns might lend themselves to novel computational solutions .
The Workshop on Ethics for Studying Sociotechnical Systems in a Big Data World2 , run at CSCW 2015 , focused on academic research conducted using large ( social ) data .
When Companies Study Their Customers : The Changing Face of Science , Research , and Ethics3 , run by the Silicon Flatirons Center for Law , Technology , and Entrepreneurship at the University of Colorado and the Tech Policy Lab at the University of Washington , explored the legal and policy questions posed by research conducted by companies .
1http://wwwfatmlorg/ 2https://cscwethics2015wordpresscom/ 3http://wwwsilicon flatironsorg/eventsphp?id=1556
The Workshop on Designing Ethical Review Processes for Big Data Research4 , run by the Future of Privacy Forum , will focus on the legal questions around large scale online experimentation .
The Workshop on the Ethics of Online Experimentation pushes these existing conversations forward by fostering productive exchange between those directly involved in designing and conducting online experiments and those who have thought through their implications .
5 . ORGANIZERS
Solon Barocas is a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the Center for Information Technology Policy at Princeton University . He completed his doctorate in the department of Media , Culture , and Communication at New York University , where he remains an affiliate of the Information Law Institute . Dr . Barocas also works with the Data & Society Research Institute and serves on its National Science Foundation funded Council for Big Data , Ethics , and Society . His research focuses on emerging computational techniques for data analysis–particularly those based on machine learning–and explores the ethical and epistemological issues that they raise . His recent work exploring the ways that machine learning can give rise to unintentional discrimination won the It won the Best Paper Award at the 2014 Privacy Law Scholars Conference . He has worked with the Intel Science & Technology Center for Social Computing under its Algorithmic Living research theme , the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard University on the Global Network Initiative , the Center for Global Communication Studies at the University of Pennsylvania on NGOs as information intermediaries , and the Stern School of Business at New York University on its Social Impact program . He has co organized conferences on Governing Algorithms ( NYU 2013 ) and Web Privacy and Transparency ( Princeton University 2014 ) , and started and continues to run a traveling workshop on Fairness , Accountability , and Transparency in Machine Learning ( NIPS 2014 and ICML 2015 ) .
Fernando Diaz is a senior researcher at Microsoft Research and a founding member of the MSR NYC lab . Prior to joining Microsoft , Fernando was a senior scientist at Yahoo Research . His primary research interest is formal information retrieval models and his research experience includes distributed information retrieval approaches to web search , interaction logging and modeling , interactive and faceted retrieval , mining of temporal patterns from news and query logs , cross lingual information retrieval , graphbased retrieval methods , and synthesizing information from multiple corpora . He received degrees in Computer Science and Political Science , both from the University of Michigan , and a PhD from the University of Massachusetts Amherst . His work on federation won the best paper awards at the WSDM 2009 , SIGIR 2009 , and ECIR 2011 conferences . His work on crisis informatics has received awards at SIGIR 2011 and ISCRAM 2013 . He is a co organizer of the Temporal Summarization track and Web track at TREC 2013 2015 and WSDM 2014 . He is also co organized workshops on Social Media During Crisis ( SIGIR 2011 , WWW 2015 ) , TimeAware Information Access ( SIGIR 2012 2014 ) , and Reproducibility of Results ( SIGIR 2015 ) .
4http://wwwfutureofprivacyorg/2015/08/26/ call for papers beyond irbs/
696
