On the Quality of Inferring Interests From Social Neighbors
Zhen Wen
IBM TJ Watson Research Center
19 Skyline Drive
Hawthorne , NY 10532 USA zhenwen@usibmcom
Ching Yung Lin
IBM TJ Watson Research Center
19 Skyline Drive
Hawthorne , NY 10532 USA chingyung@usibmcom
ABSTRACT This paper intends to provide some insights of a scientific problem : how likely one ’s interests can be inferred from his/her social connections – friends , friends’ friends , 3 degree friends , etc ? Is “ Birds of a Feather Flocks Together ” a norm ? We do not consider the friending activity on online social networking sites . Instead , we conduct this study by implementing a privacy preserving large distribute social sensor system in a large global IT company to capture the multifaceted activities of 30,000+ people , including communications ( eg , emails , instant messaging , etc ) and Web 2.0 activities ( eg , social bookmarking , file sharing , blogging , etc ) . These activities occupy the majority of employees’ time in work , and thus , provide a high quality approximation to the real social connections of employees in the workplace context . In addition to such “ informal networks ” , we investigated the “ formal networks ” , such as their hierarchical structure , as well as the demographic profile data such as geography , job role , self specified interests , etc . Because user ID matching across multiple sources on the Internet is very difficult , and most user activity logs have to be anonymized before they are processed , no prior studies could collect comparable multifaceted activity data of individuals . That makes this study unique . In this paper , we present a technique to predict the inference quality by utilizing ( 1 ) network analysis and network autocorrelation modeling of informal and formal networks , and ( 2 ) regression models to predict user interest inference quality from network characteristics . We verify our findings with experiments on both implicit user interests indicated by the content of communications or Web 2.0 activities , and explicit user interests specified in user profiles . We demonstrate that the inference quality prediction increases the inference quality of implicit interests by 42.8 % , and inference quality of explicit interests by up to 101 % .
Categories and Subject Descriptors J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences—Sociology
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords User interest modeling , Social networks , Quality
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Modeling user interests is important for search and recommender systems to provide personalized results to meet individual user needs [ 25 ] . Towards this goal , existing works have studied a user ’s explicit interests specified in his profile , or implicit interests indicated by his prior interactions with various types of information , such as content the user has created or read including web pages , documents and email . Recently , the proliferation of online social networks spark an interests of leveraging social network to infer user interests [ 26 ] , based on the existence of social influence and correlation among neighbors in social networks [ 21 ] . For applications that can directly observe a user ’s behavior ( eg , logs of search engines he uses ) , inferring interests from his friends in social networks provides one extra useful enhancement . For many other applications , however , it is difficult to observe sufficient behavior of a large number of users . In such scenarios , inferring their interests from their friends can be the only viable solution . For example , for a new user in a social application , the application may only have information about his friends who are already using it . To motivate the new user to actively participate , the application may want to provide personalized recommendations of relevant content . To this end , the application has to infer his interests from friends .
However , there exists huge variation in the types and amount of information in social interactions . According to existing studies on enterprise social networks [ 5 ] , only a small percentage of employees ( eg , < 10 % ) may actively contribute social content using one or more social software ( eg , blogs , social bookmarking and file sharing ) . But a large number of other employees ( eg , > 90 % ) may seldom do so . Moreover , certain user contributed data may not be accessible ( eg , private files ) or can not be associated with a particular user ( eg , anonymous data ) . That results in both a demand and a challenge for accurate user interest modeling , especially for inactive users in social networks ,
373 ie , users that do not contribute social content . On one hand , accurate user interest modeling can provide personalized search and recommendation results , and thus may help to increase the usage of social software . On the other hand , the available observations of users are sparse and exist in multiple types of media .
There resides more information about social relationships via traditional communication media , such as emails , instant messaging , meeting calendars , etc . Comparing to social software , they provide better accuracy in inferring social networks , since most people still spend significant time of these media . However , these data are more private , and thus , seldom could prior researches in the literature utilize such information without potential infringing privacy or collaboration from the communication service provider , which is actually illegal in some countries . Fortunately , we solved the privacy issue by designing a rigorous distributed social sensing system [ 16 ] and went through lawyer , privacy officer , and union reviews in each country to make sure the system follows the privacy and data protection laws . Up to Jan 2010 , this system has been approved worldwide except 5 European countries .
We have been capturing the multifaceted activities of 30K+ people , including communications such as emails , instant messaging , meetings , etc , and web 2.0 activities , such as blogs , wiki , file sharing , and social bookmarking for up to 3 years in more than 70 countries . After anonymizing the identity and the content of these data , we are able to quantitatively infer the social networks of 400K employees within the organization . Figure 1 illustrates the three top social media1 with the largest contributor populations , and the relationships among their contributor populations . Overall , the three top social media cover 31K employees out of the 400K employees of the enterprise . With the abundant infor
Figure 1 : A Venn diagram showing the overlapping contributor populations of three top social media . mation of people available , we thus can study the scientific questions of ” whether one ’s interests are related to the people surrounding him ? ” , ” how accurately can one ’s interests be inferred through social networks ? ” , etc .
To address such challenges , we present a network autocorrelation model based approach that combines multiple types of social media to infer user interests from social neighbors , especially for inactive users . In order not to diminish the quality of personalized search and recommendation results by inaccurately inferred user interests , we propose a computational method to measure inference quality ( eg , accuracy 1Note that electronic communication can also be considered as a social media , though it is not a Web 2.0 social media . of inferred interests ) based on observable features such as the user ’s social network characteristics . Our work offers two unique contributions : • We demonstrate that combining multiple types of social media significantly improves the quality of inferring users’ interests from their friends by as much as 52 % , comparing to using only single source .
• We propose a technique to predict the inference quality purely based on network topology characteristics . This allows applications to reliably decide when to infer interests from friends , which can improve the inference quality by up to 101 % . This technique is validated on both implicit user interests indicated by user communication content and accessed documents/webpages , and explicit user interests specified by themselves in their profiles .
2 . RELATED WORK
Our study on the quality of user interest inference from social neighbors is related to previous approaches to user modeling , and prior work on social influence and correlation among friends in social networks . 2.1 User Modeling
Modeling user interests is common practice for search and recommendation systems . Users may express their interests explicitly in their profiles . Alternatively , user interest models can be derived by analyzing a user ’s own behavior observed from various sources . One type of sources is user authored content such as user generated tags [ 20 , 23 ] and papers written by users [ 22 ] . In addition , user interaction history during web search [ 1 ] and indexed desktop documents [ 25 ] are used to model user interests . Recently , researchers have started to leverage social cues to enhance user interest modeling . For example , assuming users visited a same page share similar interests , White et al . [ 19 ] , Piwowarski and Zaragoza [ 26 ] augment a user ’s interest model by combining the interests of other users that also visit the same page . Similarly , collaborative filtering ( CF ) systems model user interests by assuming that those who had similar opinions on a set of items tend to agree again on other items [ 10 ] . In these works , they concentrate on one type of user generated data ( eg , web search logs ) and the data are available for every user whom they build interest models for . Moreover , they only consider social cues from neighbors with one degree of separation . In contrast , our study focuses on users in social networks where there are multiple types of data and large variation in user contribution . For example , studies have shown that only a small percentage ( eg , < 10 % ) of users contributed data in such environments [ 5 ] . Our work is the first to study the quality of inferring user interests from friends in such situations . Moreover , in our work we consider friends with various ties and different degrees of separation . 2.2 Social Influence and Correlation
Social influence and correlation among people ’s behavior have been extensively studied by social network researchers [ 14 ] . Lately , the correlation in online social networks is reported by Singla and Richardson [ 21 ] . Researchers have explored data mining techniques to model various aspects of social influence . For example , Crandall et al . [ 8 ] studied the interaction between social influence and selection , a pro
374 cess that people tend to form new links to others who are already like them . While social influence is an important factor that induces correlation among people , it is not the only one . Thus , Anagnostopoulos et al . [ 2 ] present a model to distinguish social influence from other factors of social correlation . Moreover , Tang et al . [ 24 ] model the dynamics and topic dependency of social influence . While these works provide us with a theoretical foundation to draw upon , our study focuses on the quality of modeling user interests from social neighbors , an important issue for social applications due to practical constraints , such as limited observations with large variations and multiple types .
In other work , several approaches have developed tools for various applications based on social influence and correlation . For example , Liben Nowell and Kleinberg [ 15 ] exploit social correlation to predict future links among users . Ma et al . [ 17 ] leverage the similarity among ratings from friends to improve items recommendation ( eg , movies , books , etc ) . Our work similarly makes use of social correlation to infer user interests from social neighbors . However , in contrast to previous work , we focus on understanding the large variance of the inference quality and how the quality can be predicted by social network characteristics .
3 . DATASET
We analyze the information content in the electronic communication social networks inside a global information technology firm with more than 400,000 employees . The data contain people ’s electronic communication data , Web 2.0 social content and employee job related information .
The people ’s electronic communication data include email and instant messaging activities . We collected detailed electronic communication records of 8952 volunteer employees in more than 70 countries . To preserve privacy , the original textual content of an email or text message is not saved . Instead , the content is represented as a vector containing the terms appeared in the text as well as their counts after stop words removal and stemming . In addition , to construct a view of the network that reflects the real communications , we eliminate spam and mass email announcements and are left with 20 million emails and text messaging chats . Because a volunteer ’s communication may include non contributors , our system can thus infer the connections and the amount of communications to the non contributors . From the 8952 volunteers’ communication data , we derive the social networks of more than 400K people within the firm , where the strength of a link is computed based the amount of communication between two people ( see Equation 5 for the detailed link strength definition ) .
We also collected social content in various Web 2.0 social software within the enterprise . Among the 400K employees , nearly 16K people created 400K social bookmarks of web pages [ 18 ] . Each bookmark includes the web page url and a set of tags . A different but overlapping set of 14K people shared 140K files , of which 20K files are public files that we can analyze . Two other social media that have smaller number of users are blogs with 5K contributors and 112K entries , and audio/video media library with 4.2K users and 61K media files . In this study , we focus on social bookmarking and file sharing , the two Web 2.0 social media that have the widest coverage in the enterprise .
Combining the users who contributed to one or more of the three sources , we have 31K employees in total ( see Figure 1 ) .
After excluding people who only contributed private files , the dateset contains 25315 people . Each person ’s data include his emails and instant messages , the social bookmarks he has created , and public shared files he has accessed . We denote the sources as EML , BMK , and FILE . In addition , we collected employee job related information , such as the division an employee belongs to , his job role within the division , and the revenue he generates . Moreover , we collected optional information preferences specified in a subset of employees’ profiles , which are used to customize information ( eg , news ) displayed on their personal Intranet homepage . To protect the privacy of the employees , their identities are replaced with hash identifiers .
4 . USER INTEREST MODEL
In our study , we examine two types of user interests : ( 1 ) implicit interests indicated by user content ; and ( 2 ) explicit interests directly specified by users in their profiles .
4.1 Topic based Implicit User Interest Model Because users’ contributed content reveal their implicit interests , we model user interests as a set of latent topics extracted from their communication data and contributed social content . We use Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) [ 4 ] , a generative probabilistic model to extract topics . Given a document corpus D , LDA models each document d as a finite mixture over an underlying set of topics , where each topic t is characterized as a distribution over words . A posterior Dirichlet parameter γ(d , t ) can be associated with the document d and the topic t to indicate the strength of t in d . As a result , the document d can be reduced to a vector γd = γ(d , t1 ) , γ(d , t2 ) , , γ(d , tT ) , where T is the total number of topics . Next , we empirically choose T = 1200 , in order to balance the need to cover the diverse content and the computational complexity . After topic extraction , we define a U × T matrix S to describe user interests using topics , where U is the total number of employees . An element sij in S denotes the degree the i th employee is interested in the j th extracted topic . We compute sij by aggregating the strengths of the topic in all of the i th employee ’s content . Specifically , we have sij = γ(d , tj ) where Di is the set of content by the i th employee and γ(d , tj ) is a posterior Dirichlet parameter describing the j th topic strength in a document d . We then d∈Di normalize S by sij = sij
. j sij
Furthermore , since different information sources have different characteristics , we adjust the weight sij based on its information source by : sij = ω · sij , where ω is a constant associated with the information source . For example , social bookmarks are more direct and concise indication of user interests than shared files . Thus , the weight of social bookmarks should be higher than that of file sharing . We empirically set the weights to be ωBMK = ωEM L = 0.4 , ωF ILE = 02
Finally , practical search and recommendation applications may demand a keyword based representation of a user ’s topN interests . For the top N interests , the user should be highly interested in them ( based on sij ) . Moreover , the topN interests should be distinct to each other ( based on word overlap ) . To incorporates the two constraints , we define an
375 objective function for top N interests TN :
N j=1
N
N j=1 k=1 obj(TN ) =
σ1 N sij − σ2 N 2 cos(tj , tk ) where tj is the j th topic , cos(tj , tk ) is the cosine similarity , the weights σ1 = σ2 = 0.5 but can be adjusted in different application scenarios . We use a greedy method to select the top N interests . Then , for each interest we output its top Nw keywords ( eg , Nw = 20 ) . 4.2 Explicit User Interest Model
User interests can also be explicitly specified in their profiles . In this organization , employees are encouraged to specify information preferences indicating their interests in their online profiles . The interests are specified using terms from a manually designed work related taxonomy . Overall , 1120 distinct terms are used in explicit interests . We observe that only 29 % of employees ( 116K out of 400K employees ) specified their interests , and on average each person specified 10 terms . In addition , many people do not update the interests in years . We use a vector of terms as a user ’s interest model . The default weight of a term is 1 , since the terms specified in profiles are neither weighted nor sorted .
We further examine the relationship between the implicit and explicit user interests . Out of the 25315 users that contributed social content , 8005 of them also explicitly specified interests in their profiles . For these 8005 users that have both interest models , we compare the terms in their explicit interests and the top 20 implicit interests extracted from the contributed content . On average , 60.4 % of the terms in a user ’s explicit interests are covered by the terms in his top20 implicit interests . In contrast , only 2.2 % of the terms in a user ’s top 20 implicit interests are covered by his explicit interests . This is understandable because the implicit interests are extracted from a large amount of content , while explicit interests are from a limited taxonomy and many users may just specify a small set of of their interests . An in depth investigation of the relationship between the two types of interests is beyond the scope of this study . Instead , we focus on validating our findings on these two different types of user interest models .
5 .
INFERRING USER INTERESTS
Users’ behavior and interests are influenced by their neighbors in social networks . In this section , we present our approach to inferring user interests using a social influence model based on network autocorrelation . Our approach may especially be useful for inferring interests of inactive users whose behavior is difficult to observe . 5.1 Network Autocorrelation Model
In social network sciences , network autocorrelation models have been widely used to describe the social actors’ interdependency as a result of social influence [ 14 ] . In these models , people are assumed to establish their own behavior as a result of a diffusion process , in which they appropriately take into account the opinions and behaviors of their significant social neighbors . We adopt this model in our study because only partial observations are available in our network , which makes it difficult to obtain sufficient samples for a large number of inactive users to train a probabilistic graph model such as the one in [ 24 ] .
Specifically , let Z be a ( U × N ) matrix of values of N endogenous variables for U actors in a network , and let W denote a ( U × U ) matrix where an entry wij denotes the influence actor j has on actor i . The network autocorrelation model represents ego ’s attribute as a weighted version of the attributes of his social neighbors :
Z = ρW · Z +
( 1 ) where ρ is a constant and is an error term . The entry wij in the weight matrix W is defined as a function of the social distance between actor i and actor j . Depending on the characteristics of a given network , multiple types of functions ( eg , exponential function ) have been used to construct W . However , the generally appropriate type of function for W does not exist . 5.2
Inferring Interests from Neighbors
To infer users’ interests , we let variable Z denote the degree users are interested in a set of subjects , where zij is the i th user ’s interest in the j th subject . The subject can be a topic in the implicit user interests or a term in the explicit user interests . For topic based implicit user interests , we have zij = sij , where sij is an entry of the matrix S defined in Section 41 In our study , we focus on using the normalized sij value to represent the degree that a user is interested in a subject . Thus we set the network autocorrelation model constant ρ = 1 . We also ignore , since the uncertainty of the inference is assessed by the quality of the inferred interests described in Section 5.3 and 54 We estimate the degree the i th user is interested in the j th subject as zij =
( wki · zkj )
( 2 ) k=1 where zkj is initially set to 0 if the k th user is inactive so that his interest can not be observed . We further define the weight wki as an exponential function of the social distance wki = exp(−dist(k , j ) )
( 3 ) where dist(k , j ) is the social distance between user k and user i . It is defined by considering the degree of separation in their communication and the amount of communication [ 16 , 27 ] . Specifically , it is calculated as
U
K−1 dist(i , j ) =
1 strength(vk , vk+1 ) k=1
( 4 ) where v1 , , vk are the nodes on the shorted path from user i to user j , and strength(vk , vk+1 ) measures the strength of communications between vk and vk+1 and is normalized to vary between 0 and 1 . The measure is defined as : strength(i , j ) = log(X ij ) maxj log(X ij )
( 5 ) where X ij is as : ij =
X
10 : if Xij ≤ 10 Xij : otherwise
Here Xij is the total communications between user i and j . This measure of communication strength has been extensively tested and is shown to accurately reflect the strength of tie between users [ 16 ] .
376 N
To infer a user ’s interests using Equation 2 , we only consider the neighbors in his three degree ego network , ie , the network of people within three degrees of separation to him . The reason is that previous empirical studies have been able to effectively use the information from neighbors within three degrees of separation for social influence study [ 7 ] and social search [ 16 ] . Therefore , we focus on the three degree ego network of a user for inferring his interests . 5.3 Quality of Inferring Implicit Interests j=1 maxt∈T
To measure the quality of the inferred implicit interests , N [ cos(tj , t) ] , we define the quality as : C = 1 N where tj is the j th topic in the inferred top N interests , N is the ground truth top N interests , and cos(tj , t ) is T the cosine similarity . Intuitively , the equation calculates how many inferred top N interests are similar to the topN ground truth . In our study , we set N = 10 and use the interests extracted from a user ’s contributed content as his ground truth implicit interests .
Then , we randomly partition the ground truth data of the 25315 employees into ten parts and perform 10 fold cross validation to compute the inference quality . In each round , we leave out the data of one tenth of the users ( testing set ) , and infer their interests using only the extracted interests for the other nine tenths of the users ( training set ) . To investigate the effectiveness of combining different types of social content , we conduct the experiment in four conditions : ( 1 ) using social bookmarking data only , ( 2 ) using file sharing data only , ( 3 ) using electronic communication data only , and ( 4 ) using all three types of data . Table 1 shows the inference quality in the four conditions .
Condition Max Mean Min 59.4 % 19.2 % 5.1 % 44.9 % 12.7 % 3.0 % 62.1 % 29.6 % 3.8 % 100 % 45.1 % 4.2 %
1 2 3 4
St . Deviation
10.7 % 7.2 % 14.1 % 21.7 %
Table 1 : The quality of user interest inference .
The comparison results demonstrate the significant advantage of combining multiple sources of social information . The mean quality of combining sources outperform the best mean quality of using one source ( electronic communication ) by 52 % . We attribute the significant improvement to the much wider coverage of the combined social content as illustrated by Figure 1 . Specifically , each social media is used for different purpose . For example , social bookmarking is mostly for organizing and sharing web content while electronic communication is used more often for an information worker ’s daily business . Therefore , the content in the different sources may relate to different aspects of a user ’s interest . Among the three social media , electronic communication data gives the best performance because of its ubiquity and quantity . Social bookmarking outperforms file sharing , since social bookmarks are more direct and concise indication of user interests [ 23 ] .
However , Table 1 also shows that the variance of inference quality is huge . We hypothesize that the variance is due to the large variation in people ’s contributed content and their positions in the information diffusion of the social networks . In Section 6 , we test this hypothesis and present a method to predict inference quality . By using the predictor to decide when to infer user interests , applications can improve the mean quality of the results . 5.4 Quality of Inferring Explicit Interests
We also evaluate the effectiveness of inferring explicit user interests from friends . The quality of a user ’s inferred interests are measured by how much the inferred interests overlap with ground truth . Formally , we measure the quality by precision and recall defined as :
Qp =
|IN F
GN D|
|IN F|
,
Qr =
|IN F
GN D|
|GN D|
( 6 )
( cid:84 )
( cid:84 ) where IN F is the set of terms with positive weights in the user ’s inferred explicit interests , GN D is the ground truth of the user ’s explicit interests as specified in his profile .
We then perform 10 fold cross validation to compute the inference precision and recall , using the ground truth data of the 8005 employees that have both contributed social content and specified explicit interests . We focus on this set of users so that we can study how factors concerning user contributed social content may impact the inference in Section 6 . The average inference precision Qp is 30.1 % with a standard deviation of 269 % In contrast , the mean inference recall Qr is 61.5 % with a standard deviation of 276 % For the significantly higher recall , one possible explanation is that a user ’s interests may often be a small subset of the combined interests of his friends . Therefore , interests inferred from friends can have higher recall . Again , we will show in Section 6 that the inference quality predictor can help applications to improve explicit interest inference .
6 . PREDICTING INFERENCE QUALITY
Because there is large variance in the quality of inferring user interests from social neighbors , it is difficult for practical applications to decide whether to utilize the inferred interests . Therefore , it is highly desirable that inference quality can be predicted based on social network features . In this section , we examine a set of relevant network factors and present a regression model to predict the inference quality . 6.1 Factors
We hypothesize that a user ’s interests are impacted by the type and amount of content contributed in his ego network as well as the structural characteristics of the ego network . Specifically , we examine five factors including user activeness measured by the amount of contributed content , network in degree , network out degree , between centrality , and user management role in the organization . We focus on studying the factors in the user ’s three degree ego network , where the most social influence comes from . For each factor , we extract corresponding feature for three sub ego networks including one degree neighbors , two degree neighbors , and three degree neighbors respectively . This allows us to assess the different influence from neighbors of different degrees of separation . In addition , the role of the user himself in the social networks may influence interest inference . For example , a user that plays an important role in the information flow within the network may be more likely to share interests with his neighbors . Therefore , we also extract ego network feature of the user himself including in degree , out degree , betweenness and user management role .
377 611 User activeness We measure the activeness of user i in the network using the amount of content he contributed . Let a(i ) be a ( 3 × 1 ) vector a0(i ) , a1(i ) , a2(i ) , where a0(i ) , a1(i ) , a2(i ) are the amount of the user ’s contribution in social bookmarking , file sharing , and electronic communication , respectively . Their values are normalized to [ 0 , 1 ] by dividing by the maximum contribution in each type of media .
The social influence user i receives on a subject could be mostly from a highly active friend in the user ’s ego network , or the collective influence from all neighbors is more important . To distinguish the two situations and compare their relative importance , we calculate both the sum and the maximum value of the activeness in the ego network of user i . Moreover , each neighbor ’s activeness should be weighted by his social influence on user i :
Aj(i ) =
[ wvi · aj(v) ] , A j(i ) = max v∈Vk
[ wvi · aj(v ) ]
( 7 ) v∈Vk where wvi is defined in Equation 3 to indicate the social influence user v has on user i , j = 0 , 1 , 2 denotes the type of the social media , and Vk is the node set of the sub ego network containing neighbors of degree k .
612 Network in degree and out degree Network in degree and out degree measure the number of electronic communication ( eg , email ) between a user and other users in a network . For user i , in degree is measured as the number of email sent to i , while out degree is measured as the number of emails sent out from i . For a sub ego network Vk of user i , we also calculate both the sum and the maximum value of the in degree as :
I(i ) =
[ wvi · inDeg(v) ] , I
( i ) = max v∈Vk
[ wvi · inDeg(v ) ] v∈Vk v∈Vk where Vk is the sub ego network containing neighbors of degree k , inDeg(v ) is the number of emails coming into user v . Similarly , we calculate the sum and the maximum value of the out degree as :
O(i ) =
[ wvi · outDeg(v) ] , O
( i ) = max v∈Vk
[ wvi · outDeg(v ) ] where outDeg(v ) is the number of emails coming out from user v . In addition , we include the ego attributes inDeg(i ) and outDeg(i ) as features for user i .
613 Betweenness centrality For an individual node i in social networks , the betweenness centrality b(i ) measures the relative importance of the node in the information flow within the network [ 9 ] . Hence , a user with high betweenness value might have high influence on his neighbors . Specifically , b(i ) is defined as the probability that node i will fall on the shortest path between any two other individuals in a network : b(i ) =
[ ðlm(i)/ðlm ]
( 8 ) l<m where ðlm(i ) is the number of shortest geodesic paths from l to m that pass through a node i , and ðlm is the total number of shortest geodesic paths from l to m . For the sub ego network Vk of user i , we again compute the sum and the maximum value of betweenness centrality as :
B(i ) =
[ wvi · b(v) ] ,
B
( i ) = max v∈Vk
[ wvi · b(v ) ]
( 9 ) v∈Vk where Vk is user i ’s sub ego network containing neighbors of degree k . Finally , we include the ego betweenness value b(i ) as a feature for user i . 614 User management role A user ’s formal role in the organization ( eg , manager ) may also impact his influence to his friends . Therefore , we include a factor on user formal role . For user i , we define m(i ) to describe his formal role with 3 possible values : 0 ( non managers ) , 1 ( line managers ) , and 2 ( executives ) . In our data set , there are 81.3 % non managers , 15.0 % managers and 3.7 % executives . In addition , for the sub ego network Vk of user i , we compute the sum ( M ( i ) ) and the maximum value ( M(i ) ) of user management role as :
M ( i ) =
[ wvi · m(v) ] , M
( i ) = max v∈Vk
[ wvi · m(v ) ] ( 10 ) v∈Vk
6.2 Predicting By Regression
Regression is a classic statistical problem which tries to determine the relationship between two random variables x = ( x1 , x2 , , xF ) and y . In our scenario , dependent variable y can be the inference quality C , and independent variable x can be a feature vector based on the factors described in Section 61 Specifically , for user i , x = x k , inDeg(i ) , outDeg(i ) , b(i ) , m(i ) , ( k = 1 , 2 , 3 ) ( 11 ) where inDeg(i ) , outDeg(i ) , b(i ) and m(i ) are ego features k is a ( 14× 1 ) feature vector for the sub ego for user i , and x network Vk with neighbors of degree k :
, O , O
0 , A
1 , A
2 , I , I k = A0 , A1 , A2 , A x
( 12 ) Here x k includes the sum and maximum values of user activeness in different types of social media , network in degree and out degree , betweenness , and user management role . All feature values are normalized to [ 0 , 1 ] .
, M , M
, B , B
Given the features , we use support vector regression ( SVR ) predict inference quality . In SVR , the input x is first mapped onto a high dimensional feature space using a nonlinear mapping , and then a linear model is constructed in this feature space . SVR uses a so called ε insensitive loss function :
Lε =
0 |y − fω(x)| if|y − fω(x)| < ε otherwise l minimize 1
2ω2 + H where ε is a predefined deviation threshold , and fω(x ) is the regression function to predict y which has a parameter ω . Then the regression is formalized as the following problem :
yi − fω(x ) ≤ ε + ξi i=1 ( ξi + ξ∗ i ) fω(x ) − yi ≤ ε + ξ∗ i ≥ 0 ξi , ξ∗ where H is a constant , and ξi , ξ∗ i ( i = 1 , , l ) are slack variables introduced for the optimization to measure the deviation of training samples outside ε insensitive zone . subject to i
In our study , we collect ground truth interest data of the 25315 contributors and their ego network features to build
378 ( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
Figure 3 : Compare the impact of different features on prediction : ( a ) ego vs . neighbors , ( b ) degrees of separation , ( c ) types of social content , and ( d ) maximum and sum values of the features .
SVR model . We use the support vector regression implementation in SVM Light [ 12 ] . In our support vector regression experiments , we use sigmoid kernel function tanh(s·xT i · xj + c ) with parameter s = 02 Other parameters such as ε are set to default . Next , we evaluate the effectiveness of the regression in Section 6.3 and 64
( a )
( b )
Figure 2 : ( a ) The precision recall curves for implicit interest inference quality classification . ( b ) The quality improvements after using inference quality classification .
6.3 Results on Implicit Interest Inference
To evaluate the quality of the inferred top N implicit interests , we use the prediction to classify “ high quality ” inferred interests ( eg , quality C > 50% ) . In practice , the criteria for high quality can vary according to application scenarios . To classify “ accurate ” interest inference , we test whether the quality prediction is larger than a threshold T H . The precision and recall for a particular T H can be defined as : precisionT H =
, recallT H = where EH is the ground truth set of “ accurate ” inferences that satisfy our preselected quality criteria , and ET H is the set of predictions larger than T H . A precision recall curve can be derived by varying the threshold T H .
We randomly partition the ground truth user interest data into ten parts and use 10 fold cross validation to evaluate the classification performance based on support vector regressions . Five criteria are used to classify the inference quality . The resulting precision recall curves are shown in Figure 2(a ) . We observe that satisfactory performance can be achieved by our quality prediction method . For example , to classify inferred interests that have quality larger than 50 % , our method gives a precision of 62 % , at a recall of
( cid:84 )
|EH
ET H|
|ET H|
( cid:84 )
|EH
ET H|
|EH|
50 % . Therefore , we can use this model to inform search and recommender applications when to leverage the inferred interests . In that situation , we only infer a user ’s interests from his friends when the classifier predicts the result will be better than the predefined criteria . Figure 2(b ) shows the mean and standard deviation of the inference quality when using the classifier . Compared to the results in Table 1 , we can observe that the mean quality is significantly improved , while the standard deviation is reduced . For example , using the c50 classifier , the mean quality is improved from the 45.1 % in Table 1 to 64.4 % , an improvement of 428 %
631 Comparing Different Features To understand the relative impact of various features used in predicting interest inference quality , we perform “ leaveone feature out ” comparisons . That is , to compare the impact of two features f1 and f2 , we perform two 10 fold cross validation as described earlier . For the first time , we use all features but f1 . In the second experiment , we leave out f2 . After that , we compare the precision recall curves from the two experiments to understand which feature has bigger impact on prediction . In our study , we may also leave a set of features out to examine their impact on prediction . In all comparisons , we use the c40 criteria ( quality > 40% ) .
First , we compare the impact of the features describing ego ( inDeg(i ) , outDeg(i ) , b(i ) , and m(i ) in Equation 11 ) and the features describing neighbors ( x k in Equation 11 ) . Figure 3(a ) shows the corresponding two precision recall curves . We observe that it is possible to predict inference quality only using features about ego role in the information flow within the network ( the red dashdot curve with star marker ) . However , the performance of ignoring ego features is mostly better than leaving out features about neighbors . That is , the features on neighbors are more important .
Second , we compare the features on neighbors of different degrees of separation . In Figure 3(b ) , the precision recall curve obtained by ignoring three degree neighbors has the best overall performance . This agrees with previous studies that social influence decreases quickly as the degree of separation increases . However , to our surprise , leaving out one degree neighbors has smaller impact than two degree neighbors for recall between [ 0.1 , 06 ] Further investigation into our data set gives a possible explanation . There are on average 21 times more two degree neighbor than one degree neighbors . Thus the two degree neighbors can provide much more information than one degree neighbors . Therefore , the impact of neighbors of different degrees of separation is the
00204060810650707508085090951RecallPrecisionw/o egow/o neighbors00204060810650707508085090951RecallPrecisionw/o 1−degreew/o 2−degreew/o 3−degree00204060810650707508085090951RecallPrecisionw/o file sharingw/o bookmarkingw/o communication00204060810650707508085090951RecallPrecisionw/o maxw/o sum00204060810020406081RecallPrecisionc10 : quality>10%c20 : quality>20%c30 : quality>30%c40 : quality>40%c50 : quality>50%c10c20c30c40c5001020304050607080Inference Quality ( %)379 result of balancing the two factors : the amount of information provided and the degree of separation .
Next , the impact of the three types of social information sources is compared . In our study , we have focused on three types of media : social bookmarking , file sharing and electronic communication ( eg , email and instant messaging ) . Figure 3(c ) illustrates the three precision recall curves . The results show that ignoring electronic communication has the largest impact on prediction . This is understandable since the amount of electronic communication data is much larger : 20 million compared to less than 1 million in other two types of media . Besides electronic communication , social bookmarking has a bigger impact than file sharing . This can be explained by the fact that social bookmarks are usually meaningful tags used to improve information search and organization [ 18 , 11 , 3 ] . Therefore , it is easier to extract user interests from social bookmarks than shared files .
Moreover , we compare the impact of the maximum and sum values of the factors , which are both used as the features to predict quality ( see Equation 12 ) . For a user , the maximum values of the factors correspond to the most prominent neighbor ( eg , the most active neighbor ) . In contrast , the sum values indicate the collective influence of all the neighbors . Figure 3(d ) shows the precision recall curves . We observe that leaving out the sum values has a bigger overall influence on the classification performance . Therefore , the collective influence from all neighbors is still noticeably more important than the influence from a single most prominent friend . On the other hand , the features on the most prominent friend can already achieve a reasonable performance ( eg , < 5 % difference in performance ) , especially in high recall , low precision situations . that applications that demands high precision of prediction should rely more on social network structure properties like network in degree .
Finally , we examine the impact of different user management role ( eg , non managers , line managers and executives ) . For each role , we randomly leave out 253 users ( ie , 1 % of the user population in our study ) with that role , when inferring user implicit interests using Equation 2 . We repeat the experiment 10 times for each management role . The mean inference accuracies for leaving out each management role are : 42.7 % ( non managers ) , 42.1 % ( line managers ) and 40.2 % ( executives ) . Although the differences are not statistically significant , the trend agrees with the intuition that higher level managers have more social influence . 6.4 Results on Explicit Interest Inference
To verify our findings against explicit user interest inference , we apply the regression model trained by the implicit user interests data in Section 6.3 to predict the inference quality . We first choose the recall of the inferred results Qr ( Equation 6 ) as the inference quality measure , since it is shown to have higher performance ( Section 54 ) Figure 5 illustrates the precision recall curves of the explicit interest inference quality classification using three different quality criteria . For example , “ Criterion : 60 % ” means that Qr > 60 % . Again , we can use the classification to decide when to perform interest inference . Using the “ Criterion : 70 % ” classifier , the mean Qr is improved from 61.5 % to 85.7 % ( a 39.3 % improvement ) , the standard deviation is reduced from 27.6 % to 174 % Similarly , we also obtain improvements on the precision of the inferred results Qp . The mean Qp is improved from 30.1 % to 60.5 % ( a 101 % improvement ) , and the standard deviation is reduced from 26.9 % to 213 % In addition , the comparison of different factors’ impact gives similar trends observed in Figure 3 and 4 .
( a )
( b )
Figure 4 : Compare the impact of five factors including user activeness , network in degree , out degree , betweenness and user management role . ( a ) An overall view , ( b ) a detailed view with 0 ≤ recall ≤ 02
In addition , we assess the relative impact of the five factors : user activeness , network in degree , network out degree , betweenness centrality , and user management role . The five corresponding precision recall curves are illustrated in Figure 4 . In Figure 4(a ) , we observe that overall user activeness has more significant impact than the other four factors . In contrast , a more detailed comparison in Figure 4(b ) shows that network in degree , out degree , betweenness and user management role have bigger impact in the scenario with high precision ( precision > 85 % ) and low recall ( recall < 20% ) . Among the social network features , network indegree has the biggest impact . This indicates that it may be accurate to infer an inactive user ’s interests if he receives information from many active friends . The implication is
Figure 5 : The precision recall curves for explicit interest inference quality classification .
7 . DISCUSSION
We studied the quality of inferring user interests from social neighborhood . Our findings demonstrate that the performance can be promising but the variance is large . This has implications for the search and recommendation applications that rely on user interest models inferred from social neighbors to provide personalized results . For example , a social blogging site may try to provide personalized blog recommendation to inactive users , which can encourage them to participate more actively . In that situation , the application needs to infer users’ interests from their friends . It can
00204060810650707508085090951RecallPrecisionw/o user activenessw/o betweennessw/o in−degreew/o out−degreew/o manager00050101502084086088090920940960981RecallPrecisionw/o user activenessw/o betweennessw/o in−degreew/o out−degreew/o manager00204060810020406081RecallPrecisionCriteria : 60%Criteria : 70%Criteria : 80%380 use the predictor to decide when to infer user interests from friends and achieve reasonable quality ( eg , mean accuracy 644 % ) In addition , the applications need combine all available social content sources to increase the inference quality . For example , sources that provide larger amount of information ( eg , email ) or are easier to extract interests ( eg , social bookmarking ) can be given more weights . Furthermore , neighbors with one or two degrees of separation have the most impact on inferring one ’s interests . Two degree neighbors may even have a bigger impact since there are much more of them and yet not too far away . Finally , users’ roles in formal networks also impact the inference . For instance , higher level managers can be more influential .
Our findings are based on social networks inferred from people ’s electronic communication including email and instant messaging . In practice , the findings may also be applied to social networks constructed from other types of interaction among people , depending on their availability . For example , the strength of the tie between two people can be inferred from their activities on online social sites ( eg , blogs , forum ) , co authorship of papers [ 24 ] , or face to face interaction captured by physical sensors [ 28 ] .
8 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we present a study on the quality of inferring user interests from friends in one of the largest global organizations . We demonstrate that there exist large variance of the inference quality when user contributed content considerably vary and the content types are diverse . To allow search and recommendation applications make informed decisions on when to utilize inferred user interests , we further investigated relevant factors and present a method to predict inference quality based on network features including user activeness , network in degree , out degree , betweenness centrality and user management role . Our experiments validate the effectiveness of the prediction method and compare the relevant importance of the factors . Our findings can be useful for social applications with widely varied participation rate so that the interests of many people can only be inferred from their friends . In particular , our results can be leveraged to provide new users with personalized recommendations , especially in our system where a user ’s social networks can be automatically constructed based on archived years of communications . This can motivate the new users to actively participate in social applications [ 6 ] .
We are planning to incorporate the inferred user interests to provide better personalized results in enterprise expert finding and content recommendation systems [ 16 ] . In the future , we plan to examine additional network properties that may affect social influence , such as the network backbone structure recently observed in email communication networks [ 13 ] . Another future direction is to study how well the dynamic evolution of users’ interests can be inferred from friends . Such study can increase our understanding on the temporal aspect of user interest models in order to provide up to date personalized search and recommendations .
9 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This research is continuing through participation in the Network Science Collaborative Technology Alliance sponsored by the US Army Research Laboratory under Agreement Number W911NF 09 2 0053 .
10 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] E . Agichtein , E . Brill , and S . T . Dumais . Improving web search ranking by incorporating user behavior information . In SIGIR , pages 19–26 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] A . Anagnostopoulos , R . Kumar , and M . Mahdian . Influence and correlation in social networks . In KDD , pages 7–15 , 2008 .
[ 3 ] K . Bischoff , C . S . Firan , W . Nejdl , and R . Paiu . Can all tags be used for search ? In CIKM , pages 193–202 , 2008 .
[ 4 ] D . Blei , A . Ng , and M . Jordan . Latent dirichlet allocation . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 3:993–1022 , 2003 .
[ 5 ] M . Brzozowski , T . Sandholm , and T . Hogg . Effects of feedback and peer pressure on contributions to enterprise social media . In CSCW , pages 61–709 , 2009 .
[ 6 ] M . Burke , C . Marlow , and T . M . Lento . Feed me : motivating newcomer contribution in social network sites . In CHI , pages 945–954 , 2009 .
[ 7 ] N . A . Christakis and J . H . Fowler . The spread of obesity in a large social network over 32 years . New England Journal of Medicine , 357(4):370–379 , 2007 .
[ 8 ] D . J . Crandall , D . Cosley , D . P . Huttenlocher , J . M . Kleinberg , and S . Suri . Feedback effects between similarity and social influence in online communities . In KDD , pages 160–168 , 2008 .
[ 9 ] L . Freeman . Centrality in social networks : Conceptual clarification . Social Networks , 1(3):215–239 , 1979 .
[ 10 ] D . Goldberg , D . Nichols , B . M . Oki , and D . Terry . Using collaborative filtering to weave an information tapestry . Commun . ACM , 35(12):61–70 , 1992 .
[ 11 ] P . Heymann , G . Koutrika , and H . Garcia Molina . Can social bookmarking improve web search ? In WSDM , pages 195–206 , 2008 .
[ 12 ] T . Joachims . Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector
Learning , chapter Making large Scale SVM Learning Practical . B . Sch¨olkopf and C . Burges and A . Smola . ( ed ) The MIT Press , 1999 .
[ 13 ] G . Kossinets , J . M . Kleinberg , and D . J . Watts . The structure of information pathways in a social communication network . In KDD , pages 435–443 , 2008 .
[ 14 ] R . T . Leenders . Modeling social influence through network autocorrelation : constructing the weight matrix . Social Networks , 24:21–47 , 2002 .
[ 15 ] D . Liben Nowell and J . M . Kleinberg . The link prediction problem for social networks . In CIKM , pages 556–559 , 2003 .
[ 16 ] C . Lin , K . Ehrlich , V . Griffiths Fisher , and C . Desforges .
Smallblue : People mining for expertise search , . IEEE Multimedia Magazine , 15(1):78–84 , 2008 .
[ 17 ] H . Ma , H . Yang , M . R . Lyu , and I . King . SoRec : social recommendation using probabilistic matrix factorization . In CIKM , pages 931–940 , 2008 .
[ 18 ] D . R . Millen , J . Feinberg , and B . Kerr . Dogear : Social bookmarking in the enterprise . In CHI , pages 111–120 , 2006 . [ 19 ] B . Piwowarski and H . Zaragoza . Predictive user click models based on click through history . In CIKM , pages 175–182 , 2007 .
[ 20 ] A . Shepitsen , J . Gemmell , B . Mobasher , and R . D . Burke .
Personalized recommendation in social tagging systems using hierarchical clustering . In RecSys , pages 259–266 , 2008 .
[ 21 ] P . Singla and M . Richardson . Yes , there is a correlation : from social networks to personal behavior on the web . In WWW , pages 655–664 , 2008 .
[ 22 ] X . Song , B . Tseng , C . Lin , and M T Sun . Expertisenet :
Relational and evolutionary expert modeling . In Proc . of Intl . Conf . on User Modeling , pages 99–108 , 2005 .
[ 23 ] J . Stoyanovich , S . A . Yahia , C . Marlow , and C . Yu . Leveraging tagging to model user interests in delicious In AAAI Spring Symposium on Social Information Processing , 2008 .
[ 24 ] J . Tang , J . Sun , C . Wang , and Z . Yang . Social influence analysis in large scale networks . In KDD , pages 807–816 , 2009 . [ 25 ] J . Teevan , S . T . Dumais , and E . Horvitz . Personalizing search via automated analysis of interests and activities . In SIGIR , pages 449–456 , 2005 .
[ 26 ] R . W . White , P . Bailey , and L . Chen . Predicting user interests from contextual information . In SIGIR , pages 363–370 , 2009 .
[ 27 ] L . Wu , C . Lin , S . Aral , and E . Brynjolfsson . Value of social network – a large scale analysis on network structure impact to financial revenue of information technology consultants . In The Winter Conference on Business Intelligence , 2009 .
[ 28 ] L . Wu , B . Waber , S . Aral , E . Brynjolfsson , and A . Pentland .
Mining face to face interaction networks using sociometric badges : Predicting productivity in an it configuration task . In International Conference on Information Systems , 2008 .
381
