Paid Placement Strategies for Internet Search Engines
Hemant K . Bhargava Smeal College of Business
Penn State University 342 Beam Building
University Park , PA 16802
Juan Feng
Smeal College of Business
Penn State University 118 Beam Building
University Park , PA 16802 bhargava@computer.org jif1@psu.edu
ABSTRACT Internet search engines and comparison shopping have recently begun implementing a paid placement strategy , where some content providers are given prominent positioning in return for a placement fee . This bias generates placement revenues but creates a disutility to users , thus reducing userbased revenues . We formulate the search engine design problem as a tradeoff between these two types of revenues . We demonstrate that the optimal placement strategy depends on the relative benefits ( to providers ) and disutilities ( to users ) of paid placement . We compute the optimal placement fee , characterize the optimal bias level , and analyze sensitivity of the placement strategy to various factors . In the optimal paid placement strategy , the placement revenues are set below the monopoly level due to its negative impact on advertising revenues . An increase in the search engine ’s quality of service allows it to improve profits from paid placement , moving it closer to the ideal . However , an increase in the value per user motivates the gatekeeper to increase market share by reducing further its reliance on paid placement and fraction of paying providers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.3 [ Information Systems ] : Information Storage and Retrieval
General Terms Economics
Keywords Search engines , information gatekeepers , paid placement , bias , promotion
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The Internet and World Wide Web are home to vast repositories of information— from text to multimedia , from amateur opinions to expert thought , from voluntary contributions to commercial interests—on every conceivable topic . Lawrence & Giles [ 12 ] estimated the publicly indexable Web at 800 million pages , 6 terabytes of text data , on 2.8 million servers , as of February 1999 . Internet search engines , which serve as a gateway to this information repository , have established a crucial role in today ’s important society . Most Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2002 , May 7–11 , 2002 , Honolulu , Hawaii , USA . ACM 1 58113 449 5/02/0005 . studies of Internet usage find that search engines play a vital role in information retrieval over the Internet . A recent USA Today ( Dec . 11 , 2000)1 article states that 100 million queries are made on US search engines each weekday , and a study of Web usage2 by Media Metrix found that the top 3 search engines were each visited by 61 % , 56 % and 40 % of tracked Internet users during the past month . The widespread use of search engines has facilitated technology transfer , so that search engine technologies are now licensed to business Web sites , used in digital library systems , etc . For the purpose of this paper , the term search engine encompasses various applications of these indexing retrieval technologies , including traditional Web search engines ( eg , Google ) , metasearch engines ( Metacrawlers ) , niche search engines ( eg , DEADLINER ( Gruger etal ( 2000 ) ) [ 10] ) , information portals ( Yahoo! ) , and comparison shopping engines ( mySimon ) .
Most search engines began as university projects that focused more on development and algorithms , and less on revenue generation . Even after transitioning into commercial entities , search engines tended to operate as a free resource to content providers and users alike . However , the recent drop in supply of cheap venture capital and sweat equity has forced commercial search engines to investigate mechanisms for generating revenue from content providers . These mechanisms—which we generically label as paid placement—include a fee for inclusion in the database , an increased relevance score in response to a query , or featured listings on the results pages . A paid placement strategy usually requires a minor modification of the ranking algorithm or to the display of results , either of which can be made at very low cost . Paid placement is widespread in search engines ( eg , Google ) , information portals ( eg , Yahoo! , and metasearch engines ( Metacrawler ) . Nearly all major search engines and portals employ paid placement.3 Table 1 presents data on the extent of paid placement for metasearch engines . And , as Figure 1 indicates , the major comparison shopping engines also employ paid placement .
The focus of this paper is on a search engine ’s strategy regarding revenues from content providers in its database , and how this objective conflicts with its other revenue sources which are a function of its user base , such as advertising and licensing revenues . We develop a mathematical model to analyze the dilemma that search engine faces in raising
1http://wwwusatodaycom/life/cyber/tech/cti895htm 2http://searchenginewatchcom/reports/mediametrixhtml 3At Search Engine Watch http://searchenginewatchcom/webmasters/paidhtml revenues : it wants to charge content providers for priority placement , but this reduces the search engine ’s credibility , hence its market share and potential user based revenues . Specifically , we determine the optimal paid placement policy , ie , the optimal placement fee and the resulting percentage of sites that choose paid placement . Our longer term interest is to determine the optimal bias level that would give a search engine the best balance between revenues from content providers and revenues based on its user base .
The revenue problem is a critical one for search engines , since it impacts both current performance and future development and improvements . In spite of many years of research on information retrieval , search engines are still far from perfect in terms of the usual metrics of relevance and recall . Hence , there remains considerable research and commercial interest in refining the indexing and ranking algorithms , and user interfaces , employed by search engines . Recent research examines a variety of topics , including Web page ranking algorithms evaluation and comparison of alternative ranking algorithms ( Singhal & Kaszkiel [ 14] ) , contextual and topic based search ( eg , Bharat & Henzinger [ 2] ) , design and evaluation of metasearch engines ( eg , Dreilinger & Howe [ 6] ) , metasearch using full text analysis of Web pages ( eg , Lawrence & Giles [ 11] ) , and visualization of results ( Hearst [ 9] ) . Since further research and development is expensive , commercial search engines need to find new revenue sources in order to balance these costs . Paid placement offers an intriguing possibility : placement revenues in one period can support research and development aimed at improving indexing and retrieval algorithms , database index , or user interface . Hence the negative impact ( on users ) of paid placement could be reversed by using placement revenues to improve search engine quality . The rest of this paper is organized as follows . In §2 , we develop our model of the search engine ’s revenue problem , considering network effects , the effect of paid placement , and third party revenues . We characterize the optimal paid placement strategy in §3 . In §4 we discuss the sensitivity of the paid placement strategy to various controllable parameters such as the extent of bias and search engine quality , and other factors such as perceived disutility and the advertising rate . We conclude with a summary of our results and possible application of our work to other forms of Internet based information intermediaries .
2 . MODEL OF SEARCH ENGINES’
REVENUE PROBLEM
Consider a search engine which offers indexing and retrieval services over a virtual library of aggregated content from multiple content providers , and presents an ordered list of results in response to a user ’s query term . In developing an economic model of search engines , we consider three types of entities : users of search engines , content providers , and third parties such as advertisers and licensing firms . The search engine serves a market of users who are heterogeneous in their preferences . Let Θ represent user types in a descending order of users valuation for the searching service , and let q represent quality of the search engine as perceived by users , which may be a composite measure of its database of content providers , user interface , and indexing and retrieval algorithms . We write U ( θ , q ) to denote the value to a type θ user for a given quality q . For convenience we as sume that θ is uniformly distributed in the interval [ 1 , 2 ] . We consider q to be exogenously specified in the period of interest . The search engine benefits content providers by directing users to their sites . Content providers are also heterogeneous in their profit expectations . Let Φ represent a descending order of provider types , where ( for convenience ) φ is uniformly distributed in [ 1 , 2 ] .
2.1 Network Externalities
We conceptualize the search engine as offering network benefits to both users and content providers ie , the overall value of the search engine to users increases in the total number of content providers ) , and the value to content providers increases in the number of users . Considering first the users’ valuation function , this means that U ( θ , q ) is an increasing function in q since q represents the index of content providers . For convenience we assume that this function is U ( θ , q ) = q θ . Similarly , the value to content providers V ( Φ,M ) is an increasing function of the search engine ’s market coverage or user base M . We write the provider valuation function as V ( φ ) = M φ .
The search engine ’s generates revenues on the basis of its user base , including revenues from third party firms such as advertisers and fees for licensing their information retrieval technologies . Advertisers are interested in exposure to users of the search engine , hence advertising revenues are a function of the search engine ’s user base . Firms that license the search engine technology pay a “ per click through ” fee , hence these revenues are also a function of the user base . For simplicity in exposition , we denote all user based revenues as advertising revenues . Let a represent the advertising value per user , so that the search engines revenues equal
π1 = a · M
2.2 Effect of Paid Placement
Internet search engines execute a user ’s search query on a database index , and typically return a set of results ranked according to their relevance score . Given these results , the user selects specific content providers in the list for further transactions . It is well known that the ranking of a result term is strongly correlated with the probability that the user will follow up on the result term ( McLuhan ( [ 13] ) . Commercial content providers are interested in clickthroughs and conversion rates—ie , the likelihood that a search engine user will enter into a commercial transaction with the content provider . For this reason , content providers have an incentive towards paid placement—to pay the search engine in order to be included , ranked highly , or prominently featured in the search result.4 In practice , this may mean a higher relevance score , a featured listing , or perhaps even a guaranteed retrieval for certain search terms . Figure 1 displays a screen shot from a comparison shopping engine that includes paid placement ( featured listing ) , normal placement , and advertising .
What is the impact of paid placement on a search engine ’s perceived quality ? Here we assume that search engine can not hide the fact that they perform paid placement , because this can not exist in equilibrium in the long run ( bidders can
4The USA Today , cited earlier , quotes the CEO of GoTo.com as saying that commerce related requests make up nearly 50 % of search engine queries , and that over 32,000 businesses pay to be listed on GoTo .
Figure listing and graphical icon increase the likelihood that the paid placement listing will be followed up .
Paid placement , regular listings , and advertising in a comparison shopping engine .
1 :
The top perceive finally ) , or may cause some serious legal issues.5 Articles in the business press and data from commercial research firms suggest that paid placement strategies have a negative impact on a search engine ’s perceived quality and credibility . Goodman [ 8 ] argues that search engines must act as “ referees—fair arbiters of relevance ” or they will lose market share . Since loss of market share causes a fall in advertising revenue , search engines must trade off potential revenues from paid placement with those from advertising . To model the effect of paid placement , suppose that the search engine offers priority placement to content providers who pay a placement fee γ . Let x represent the percentage of free listings , hence 1 − x is the fraction of providers who choose paid placement . The search engine can bias its relevance scoring algorithm and displays in many ways . Let β be the extent of bias chosen by the search engine . We represent the positive effect of the bias β on content providers with the function λ(β ) , and the negative effect on users ( after normalization , without loss of generality ) as β itself . Assume ∂λ perceived disutility of paid placement . In the current model , β is treated as exogenous . However , our future work aims to endogenize β and determine the optimal bias level . ity function as U ( θ , q , β ) = q(1−β(1−x ) )
Due to the negative impact on users , we rewrite the util . Providers who
∂β2 ≤ 0 . Hence β represents the users’
∂β > 0 , and ∂2λ
θ
5For example,Commercial Alert filed its complaint with the FTC on Monday , claiming that AltaVista , AOL Time Warner , Direct Hit , iWon , LookSmart , Microsoft and Terra Lycos are violating US law by inserting paid listings within their search engine results “ without clear and conspicuous disclosure that the ads are ads . ” http://searchenginewatchcom/sereport/01/07 ftchtml choose paid placement get an additional benefit λ(β ) , so that provider φ ’s valuation increases to V ( φ)(1 + λ(β) ) . The search engine now gets additional revenues
π2 = γ · ( 1 − x )
2.3 Search Engine ’s Profit Function
To compute the search engine ’s profits , we first determine the fraction of users that will visit the search engine and the fraction of content providers that will choose paid placement . Let c be the threshold value desired by users before they use the search engine . This may represent an opportunity cost or effort in using the search engine , or the value provided by a competing search engine . Hence the users who use the search engine ’s service are {θ : U ( θ , q , β ) ≥ c} . Since θ is uniformly distributed in [ 1 , 2 ] , the search engine ’s market coverage is
M = q(1 − β(1 − x ) ) c
− 1
( 1 )
To make the problem meaningful , we require that at least the highest valuation user ( θ = 1 ) will use the search engine when there is no paid placement , ie , that q ≥ c .
The search engine benefits content providers by directing users to their sites . Content providers are heterogeneous in their profit expectations , which is a function of the search engine ’s market coverage M . Providers have a choice between regular placement ( which provides a value V ( φ ) at no cost ) and paid placement ( which provides value V ( φ)(1 + λ(β ) ) at cost γ ) . Rational providers will choose paid placement if and only if V ( φ)(1 + λ(β ) ) − γ ≥ V ( φ ) ie , φ ≤ M·λ(β ) . Hence the fraction of providers who choose paid placement
γ is
( 1 − x ) =
M · λ(β )
γ
− 1
( 2 )
The search engine obtains revenues from two sources , third party firms and paid placement . The first type of revenue π1 = a · M is a function of the search engine ’s market coverage , M , and profit rate brought by each user , a . If M is interpreted as the number of queries to the search engine , a may be considered as the rate per impression . Hence q(1 − β(1 − x ) ) − c
π1 = a c
The search engine ’s placement revenue π2 is γ(1−x ) . Sub stituting for M and rearranging terms , we get q(1 − β(1 − x ) ) − c q(1 − β(1 − x ) ) − c
−λ(β ) c(2 − x )
π2 = λ(β ) c
The search engine ’s total profits are π = π1 + π2 , and it aims to choose the optimal fraction of paid placement 1 − x ( alternately , the optimal degree of independence , x ) in order to maximize π . 2.4 Literature Review
In related work , Bhargava & Choudhary [ 3 ] and Corbett & Karmarkar [ 4 ] study the case where an intermediary has the option to charge subscription fees for customers and listing fees for suppliers . However , Bhargava & Choudhary [ 3 ] consider only a one sided network benefit , and their model does not incorporate advertising revenue . Corbett & Karmarkar [ 4 ] model two sided network benefits , but assume homogeneous content providers and do not incorporate advertising revenue . Baye & Morgan [ 1 ] applied a game theoretic model to study a similar question . None of these papers consider the possibility that the gatekeeper may bias its outputs due to payments from content providers . Dewan et al . [ 5 ] study the problem faced by a content web sites to balance content and advertising by an infinite horizon control program . Gabszewics et al . [ 7 ] analyze the case of two TV channels competing in both the audience market and the advertising market . But in both these models , advertising is the only revenue source , hence no trade off between different resources is considered .
3 . OPTIMAL PLACEMENT STRATEGY
Solving first order conditions for the search engine ’s profit function , we see that the optimal degree of independence x∗ is given by
( 2 − x ∗
)2 =
λ(β )
( λ(β ) + a)β
β +
1 − c q
( 3 )
It can be verified that when β > 0 , the profit function is concave and that the optimal x∗ given by Eq 3 satisfies second order conditions for optimality.6 Since we require that x∗ ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] , Eq 3 gives the optimal solution when 1 ≤
λ(β )
( λ(β)+a)β
β + ( 1 − c q )
≤ 4 .
To further develop the results , we first state the following property .
Lemma 2 . Let ε represent the elasticity of λ with respect to β , hence ε = ∂λ β . Then for every given β and λ(β ) , there exists a ˆε(β ) such that if ε < ˆε(β ) , then [ β , β ] > 0 , and if ε > ˆε(β ) , then [ β , β ] < 0 . Specifically , this value ˆε(β )
λ / ∂β equals
1− c a(2− c q q ) .
λ(β )
β − ( 1 − q ) · aβ · ∂λ
β + ( 1 − c q )
Proof . From the first order condition we have ( 2−x∗)2 = . We know that x is decreasing with ( λ(β)+a)β the right hand side value . Take derivative of the right hand side with respective to β , we have the sign of the first order condition is the same as the sign of ( 2 − c c q )λ(β ) . Define the elasticity of λ with respect to β , ε , as This is the percentage of changes in λ induced by a small percentage change in β . When ε ≤ 1− c q ) , the right hand a(2− c side is decreasing in β , and it should be between [ 1 , 4 ] , there exists an interval [ β , β ] of β to satisfy this condition . Since when β = 0 , the right hand side value is infinity , we know that 0 is to the left of the interval [ β , β ] . So when ε is small enough and when β is between this range , x∗is increasing in β . On the contrary , if ε ≥ 1− c q ) , x∗is decreasing in β . In a(2− c the same way we know that 0 is to the right of the interval [ β , β ] , which is the simple case when there is no disutility toward paid placement strategy .
∂λ λ ∂λ β
. q q
To understand this result , consider ε , the responsiveness of listing company ’s benefit to the users disutilities from paid placement strategy . When the responsiveness is relatively low , the search engine gets limited increase in revenue due to the limited increase in benefit of the listing companies by hurting users utilities , so the search engine should be careful about his paid placement strategy .
From the second part of Lemma 2 , the case where responsiveness is high ( ie , ε > ˆε(β ) ) has no interior optimal solution , and x∗ = 0 , ie , the search engine can take full advantage of paid placement . This is because for the search engine , the benefit for the listing companies is far greater than the disutilities the users suffer , so he can make every listing company pay and increase his revenue at the same time . Hence the search engine ’s optimal placement policy is specified as below .
2−x∗ q(1−β(1−x∗))−c
Lemma 3 . When ε < ˆε(β ) , then for all β in [ β , β ] , the optimal placement fee is γ∗ = λ(β ) , and the optimal fraction of paid placement is given by ( 2 − x∗)2 = . When the relative disutility to users is below β , the optimal fraction of paid placement is 1−x∗ = 1 , whereas when the disutility is very high ( β > β ) , the search engine should not offer paid placement .
β + ( 1 − c q )
( λ(β)+a)β
λ(β ) c
Lemma 1 . For any function λ(β ) this inequality yields an interval [ β , β ] such that for all β within this interval , Eq 3 determines the optimal x∗ . 6The case where β < 0 is not of interest here , but it is easy to show that x∗ = 0 , ie , the search engine can obtain full paid placement .
This can be easily understood by considering the relationship between λ(β ) and β . If ε is large , ie , the content providers benefit much more than the users suffer , the search engine makes as many providers pay as possible . Otherwise , the search engine must trade off placement revenue with advertising and restrict the fraction of paid placements .
4 . ANALYSIS
In this section we interpret the optimal placement strategy and examine the sensitivity of the placement strategy to exogenous factors and factors that the information search engine can control . We examine the case where ε < ˆε(β ) , omitting the less interesting case of high ε which always results in the boundary solution x∗ = 0 .
Consider the effect of users’ disutility ( β ) for paid placement . The level of bias is controllable by search engine . Hence it ’s useful to examine the sensitivity of placement strategy and fees to β . If users were indifferent to paid placement ( β = 0 ) , the search engine would maximize its placement revenues without regard for the effect on users . A disutility β forces the search engine to tradeoff between placement and advertising revenues . Proposition 1 elaborates on this .
Proposition 1 . There exists a threshold β∗ ∈ [ 0 , β ] such that when β is below β∗ , the search engine can improve profits by increasing its bias , and when β > β∗ , an increase in the bias causes the search engine ’s profits to decrease .
Proof . From Lemma 3 , when the responsiveness of λ q ) ) then β ≤ β and x∗ = with respect to β is small ( ε ≤ 1− c a(2− c 0 , hence the search engine can employ its ideal placement strategy . When β > β , then from Eq 3 it follows that ∂x∗ ∂β > 0 . Hence the fraction of paid placements 1 − x∗ falls . Further , we see that when β is close to 0,x∗ = 0 , and q
∂π∗ ∂β
= − aq c
+
1 2c
( q(1 − β ) − c ) − λq
∂λ
∂β
∂β → ∞ when β → 0 , which makes By definition of λ(β ) , ∂λ ∂x∗ ∂β > 0 when β → 0 , hence the fraction of paid placements 1 − x∗ falls . For example , consider λ(β ) = k · βm ( where β → ∞ when β → 0 , hence the first m < 1 ) : we see that λ order condition is positive . That means , when β is small enough , the search engine can increase the bias a little bit to increase its profit .
An implication of this result is that there exists an optimal bias β∗ for some functional forms . The next result describes how the search engine ’s optimal fraction of paid placement changes with the extent of bias .
Proposition 2 . When β ≤ β , then an increase in β leaves x∗ unchanged at zero . When β > β , an increase in β causes a decrease in the optimal fraction of paid placements .
This result can be easily seen from Eq 3 and Lemma 3 . The change of the search engine ’s revenue will be determined by proposition 1 .
One of the controllable factors of the information search engine is its quality of service , which is determined by the size of the database , the algorithms , and the user interface . Hence the search engine can improve quality via investments in these areas . Intuitively , the search engine could give up some placement revenues , improve q , attract more customers and get more advertisement revenues . What is the tradeoff between the search engine ’s quality and the placement revenue ?
Proposition 3 . An increase in the search engine ’s quality q allows it to increase the fraction of paid placement ( level of independence x∗ goes down ) , increasing its placement revenues and total profits . The search engine ’s market coverage increases as well , hence an increase in q increases surplus for all players .
Proof . In Eq 3 , note that an increase in q increases the
RHS , thus increasing the fraction ( 1 − x∗ ) . We see that
∂π∗ 2 ∂q
= dπ2 dq
+ dπ2 dx∗ dx∗ dq which is positive since dπ2 are negative . dq > 0 and the remaining two terms To analyze the change in market coverage M as q in creases , note that ∂M∗ ∂q
1 2c
=
2(1 + β ) −
λ(β )
( λ(β ) + a)(2 − x )
2(1 + β ) − c q
λ(β ) which is positive since ( λ(β)+a)(2−x ) < 1 . Hence the search engine ’s market coverage and revenues from the third party π1 = a · M increase , hence its total profit increases . Since both fractions M and 1−x increase with q , the total surplus for both users and content providers also increases .
In general , to increase placement revenues , the search engine must increase its fraction of paid placement , but this increases users’ disutility and reduces demand and advertising revenues . An increase in q , however , compensates for the increased disutility from increased paid placement . Hence the search engine is able to increase its placement revenues and yet increase total profits .
Finally , we consider the impact of per user profit . How do changes in a affect the search engine ’s paid placement strategy ?
Proposition 4 . An increase in the per user profit a allows the search engine to increase its degree of independence , so that the fraction of paid placements 1− x∗ decreases while the placement fee γ increases . As a result , the search engine increase its market coverage M and total profits π .
Proof . From Eq 3 , an increase in a decreases the RHS , thus increasing x∗ . Since 1− x∗ decreases , we can infer from Eq 2 that γ increases . That M increases is obvious from Eq 1 . The search engine ’s revenues brought by users and total profits increase .
To understand this result , consider the search engine ’s tradeoff between its two revenue sources . As a increases , the potential for advertising revenue increases , hence a partial sacrifice of revenues brought by users imposes a greater cost on the getekeeper . Therefore , it reduces its level of paid placement in order to provide greater utility to users , and captures a greater percentage of potential advertising revenues .
5 . CONCLUSION
This article considers a paid placement strategy for search engines . On the one hand , paid placement appears to be a financial necessity , embraced by most major Web search engines . On the other , paid placement can hurt the search engine ’s market share and its potential for revenues brought by users . We have developed a mathematical model for optimal design of a paid placement strategy , examined this tradeoff and analyzed sensitivity of the placement strategy to users’ perceived disutility , the service quality of the gatekeeper , and the advertising rate .
Our preliminary results are as follows . We show that the negative impact of paid placement on users causes the search engine to set paid placements at a below ideal level . However , when disutility for paid placement is quite low ( though not zero ) , the search engine can maintain its ideal placement revenues . We find that an increase in the search engine ’s quality of service allows it to improve its utilization of paid placement , moving it closer to the ideal ; this also increases surplus for all players . However , an increase in the advertising rate motivates the search engine to increase market share by reducing further its reliance on paid placement and fraction of paying providers . As consumers get a better understanding of the factors underlying paid placement , the search engine would likely need to spend heavily on marketing campaigns in order to minimize users’ perceived disutility for paid placement .
While this research is set in the context of Internet search engines , our model and results apply more generally to many other contexts that share similar characteristics as search engines . This broader category is often called information gatekeepers , that intermediate between a set of users ( or buyers , or consumers ) and a set of products ( or content providers , or vendors ) . Baye & Morgan [ 1 ] argue that modern markets for information tend to be dominated by “ information gatekeepers ” that specialize in collating , aggregating , and searching massive amounts of information available on the Web – and can often charge consumers , advertisers , and information providers , for their ability to acquire and transmit information . Wise & Morrison [ 15 ] emphasize the increasing role of information gatekeepers in today ’s economy , noting that in business to business markets , “ value has shifted from the product itself to information about the product . ” Specific categories of information gatekeepers to which our work applies include recommender systems ( eg , at Amazon.com ) , comparison shopping services ( eg , mySimon.com ) , e marketplaces and exchanges ( eg , FreeMarkets ) , and more traditional information gatekeepers such as investment advisors and television networks . Like search engines , many information gatekeepers generate user based revenues , but also seek to obtain revenues from their provider base by offering some form of preferential placement . For example , some Internet booksellers are influenced by advertising fees in determining their bestseller lists . Similarly , certain Internet exchanges provide preferential service ( such as real time notification or favorable recommendation to buyers ) to some clients in return for higher fees .
We are pursuing extensions of this work , including a formal derivation of the optimal bias , generalization of demand assumptions , and elimination of free placement by the gatekeeper . Our models can be extended to examine conditions under which the information gatekeeper will begin to charge users , and specifically the case where the gatekeeper differentiates between users by offering two versions : a fee based premium service with no bias in the query results , and a free basic version with paid placement bias . The fee based premium version will bring additional user revenues to the search engine , however it may reduce placement revenues because paid placement becomes less attractive to content providers . In addition , the search engine ’s market coverage and placement fee may change as well , and the models can be used to determine if it is optimal for the gatekeeper to offer differentiated service . Similar models can be developed to examine the impact of differentiation based on advertising . Some search engines have already began to offer fee based premium search services that contain no advertising . If this is the trend , it may eventually change people ’s view of Internet search engines as a free resource for fair information .
6 . APPENDIX
Meta Search Dogpile qbsearch MetaCrawler Mamma Search.com ProFusion Ixquick Vivisimo
Paid Links Total Links % Paid
30 66 13 6 10 2 1 0
35 98 25 15 29 14 10 20
86 67 52 40 34 14 10 0
1 :
Table what percentage of the links shown on the first
Paid placement in metasearch engines . page of results from a meta search service were paid listings . The table shows what percentage of the links shown on the first page of results from a meta search service were paid listings . The search query was "canada," done using each meta search service ’s default settings . http://wwwsearchenginewatchcom/ sereport/01/05 metasearch.html
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . R . Baye and J . Morgan . Information gatekeepers on the internet and the competitiveness of homogeneous product markets . American Economic Review , 91(3):454–474 , June 2001 .
[ 2 ] K . Bharat and M . Henzinger . Improved algorithms for topic distillation in a hyperlinked environment . In SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 104–111 , 1998 .
[ 3 ] H . K . Bhargava and V . Choudhary . Economics of electronic intermediary with aggregation . Technical report , Carnegie Mellon University , 2001 .
[ 4 ] C . J . Corbett and U . S . Karmarkar . Optimal pricing strategies for an information intermediary . Technical report , UCLA Andersen Graduate School of Management , Working Paper # 99 001 , 1999 . http://wwwandersonuclaedu/acad unit/dotm/information/papers/99 001.p df .
[ 5 ] R . M . Dewan , M . L . Freimer , and J . Zhang . Managing web sites for profitability : Balancing content and advertising . Technical report , University of Rochester , 2001 . http://rdewanssbrochesteredu/rehtm
[ 6 ] D . Dreilinger and A . E . Howe . Experiences with selecting search engines using metasearch . ACM
Transactions on Information Systems ( TOIS ) , 15(3):195–222 , July 1997 .
[ 7 ] J . Gabszewicz , D . Laussel , and N . Sonnac .
Tv broadcasting competition and advertising . Technical report , 1999 . http://wwwcoreuclacbe/services/psfiles/dp00/dp20006pdf
[ 8 ] A . Goodman . Why search engines must continue to be referees . wwwtraffickcom , November 2000 .
[ 9 ] M . A . Hearst . TileBars : Visualization of term distribution information in full text information access . In Conference Proceedings on Human factors in computing systems , pages 59 – 66 . ACM Press/Addison Wesley Publishing Co , 1995 .
[ 10 ] A . Kruger , C . L . Giles , F . M . Coetzee , E . G . G . W .
Flake , S . Lawrence , C . Omlin , A . Agah , J . Callan , and E . Rundensteiner . Deadliner : Building a new niche search engine . In Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management . ACM , 2000 .
[ 11 ] S . Lawrence and C . Giles . Context and page analysis for improved web search . IEEE Internet Computing , 2(4):38–46 , July/August 1998 .
[ 12 ] S . Lawrence and C . L . Giles . Accessibility of information on the web . Nature , 400(6740):107–109 , 1999 .
[ 13 ] R . McLuhan . Search for a top ranking . Marketing , page 47 , October 2000 .
[ 14 ] A . Singhal and M . Kaszkiel . A case study in web search using trec algorithms . In Series Proceedings of the The tenth international World Wide Web conference on World Wide Web , pages 708– 716 . ACM Press , 2001 .
[ 15 ] R . Wise and D . Morrison . Beyond the exchange : The future of b2b . Harvard Business Review , 78(6):86–96 , November December 2000 .
