Direct Marketing When There Are Voluntary Buyers
Yi Ting Lai and Ke Wang Simon Fraser University {llai2 , wangk}@cssfuca
Abstract
Daymond Ling , Hua Shi , and Jason Zhang
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce {Daymond.Ling , Hua.Shi , JasonZhang}@cibccom
1
In traditional direct marketing , the implicit assumption is that customers will only purchase the product if they are contacted . In real business environments , however , there are “ voluntary buyers , ” who will still make the purchase in the absence of a contact . While no direct promotion is needed for voluntary buyers , the traditional response driven paradigm tends to target such customers . This paper presents “ influential marketing , ” targeting only those whose purchase decisions can be positively influenced , ie buyers who are non voluntary . Our novel , practical solution to this problem gives promising results .
1 . Introduction
Direct marketing campaigns promote products to potential customers by contacting them via a direct channel of communication , such as telephone or mail . The traditional practice for such a campaign typically involves the following steps . First , collect historical data from a previous campaign . Each customer record is associated with a number of individual characteristics ( eg age , income ) , and a response variable indicating whether a customer responded after receiving the direct promotion . Second , perform data mining on the historical data to construct a model , with the goal of estimating the probability that a customer will respond to the promotion . Third , deploy the model to rank all potential customers in the current campaign by their estimated probability of responding . Contact some top ranked customers .
The effectiveness of a campaign is then determined by the response rate of contacted customers . This objective , which targets the most likely responders , has been widely adopted by both academia and industries [ 8 , 6 , 10 ] . An implicit assumption is that all purchases are generated by a direct contact . How a customer would behave without the direct promotion is of no concern . The following example shows that if certain customers have decided to buy the product before receiving the direct promotion , then the traditional objective does not address the right problem .
1 This work is supported by a Collaborative Research and Development Grant from NSERC and CIBC .
Example 1 . John has recently got married and the young couple has a joint account at bank X . Planning to buy a house , John has decided that he will apply for a mortgage at bank X . The decision was made because John learnt about the mortgage program when visiting the bank .
Applying traditional direct marketing strategies , bank X discovered that young newlyweds are more likely to respond to the direct promotion on the bank ’s mortgage program . Hence , the bank sent John a brochure about its mortgage program . Though it is true that John will respond positively , he would have done so even without the promotion . In other words , contacting John added no new value to the campaign . ■
The example reveals two interesting points . First , certain customers base their purchase decisions on factors other than a direct marketing campaign , eg John . We call such customers “ voluntary buyers . ” Customers may become voluntary buyers due to word of mouth or viral marketing [ 2 ] or prior knowledge about the product . Second , the traditional response driven paradigm tends to target voluntary buyers because such customers generate the highest possible responses , though no direct marketing is required for them . Clearly , a campaign that has a 5.4 % response rate among contacted customers is not very successful if , from a similar group of customers who are not contacted , we observe that 5 % purchase the product .
The traditional strategy of maximizing the response rate aims to avoid non buyers . In this paper , we advocate another largely ignored strategy : avoid voluntary buyers . When both strategies are in place , the campaign will focus on the customers who will buy if only if they are contacted . We believe that this focus is the right objective of a direct marketing campaign .
One question is — how significant in practice is the portion of voluntary buyers ? If not significant , it may be acceptable to “ push voluntary buyers through ” to close the deal while focusing on avoiding non buyers . To answer this question , a real campaign was carried out ( see details in Section 5 ) . Instead of contacting all selected customers , we withheld the contact action for a random subset of selected customers . It turns out that while the contacted group has a response rate of 5.4 % , the notcontacted group has a response rate of 43 % In other words , 80 % of the responders contacted would have responded even without the contact! Aside from cost considerations , unnecessary promotions can potentially annoy customers and , in the worst case , lead customers to switch to a competing product or company . This consideration alone is a big enough concern to the company .
The contribution of this paper is as follows . First , we introduce a new taxonomy of customers based on their purchase behaviors . All customers are classified into three classes : decided , undecided , and non . While decided and non customers have made up their minds on whether to buy the product , undecided customers will buy if and only if they are contacted . Since only undecided customers can be positively influenced by a campaign , direct marketing should target undecided customers . Influential marketing refers to this objective . The major challenge is that undecided customers are not explicitly labeled ; thus , standard supervised learning is not directly applicable . Our novel solution addresses this challenge while requiring no major changes to the standard campaign practice . The evaluation is conducted with real campaign data .
In Section 2 , we formally define the new taxonomy and influential marketing . In Section 3 , we give our solution to influential marketing . We discuss related work in Section 4 . Section 5 reports the experimental results .
2 . Influential Marketing
Consider a pool P of potential customers . Ultimately , a marketing campaign aims to maximize the net profit over P . As is the case of many direct marketing campaigns , we assume a fixed revenue R for each purchase and a fixed cost C for each direct contact ; R > C . The net profit for each purchase due to a direct contact is R – C . The set of buyers over P consists of all the customers who eventually buy the product , either voluntarily or due to a direct contact . From now on , we express the budget of a campaign as a fixed number of contacts . To maximize the total net profit , we need to maximize the number of buyers over P for a given number of contacts . We now introduce the three classes of customers : • Decided : the customers who voluntarily buy the product , regardless of a direct promotion .
• Undecided : the customers who buy the product if and only if the product is directly promoted to them . These customers can be positively influenced by a direct promotion .
• Non : the customers who will not buy the product , regardless of a direct promotion .
Each customer belongs to exactly one of these classes . Our discussion will this classification ; however , our solution does not depend on determining the class of each customer a priori . The set of buyers now consists of ( i ) all decided customers and ( ii ) the undecided customers contacted by the campaign . to customers by refer
While ( i ) is fixed across all campaigns , ( ii ) depends on whom are selected to contact .
Let S be the set of customers contacted by a campaign . Let D be the set of decided customers in S , and U be the set of undecided customers in S . |X| denote the number of customers in X . Definition 1 ( RR , DBR , UBR ) For S , the response rate , RR , is ( |D|+|U|)/|S| . The decided buyer rate , DBR , is |D|/|S| . The undecided buyer rate , UBR , is |U|/|S| . ■
Example 2 . Two direct marketing campaigns , M1 and M2 , each contact the same number of customers . We illustrate this in Figures 1 and 2 . The largest rectangle represents the customer pool P which consists of a fixed number of decided , undecided , and non customers . The group of contacted customers , S , is represented by a dashed rectangle .
Figure 1 highlights the set of buyers over S while Figure 2 highlights the set of buyers over P . M1 has a higher RR than M2 , as illustrated in Figure 1 . If we were to follow the traditional objective of maximizing RR , then M1 is preferable to M2 . Yet , M1 actually produces a smaller set of buyers over P , as shown in Figure 2 . The reason is that M1 targets mostly voluntary buyers , but contacting such customers does not increase the total number of buyers . Judging from the net profit generated , M2 should actually be preferable to M1 . ■ undecided undecided
M2
M1 non decided decided non
Figure 1 . M1 has a larger RR than M2 . undecided undecided
M2
M1 non decided decided non
Figure 2 . M1 has a smaller set of buyers over P than M2 . instead of
Clearly , for a fixed number of contacts , the only way to generate a higher net profit is to contact undecided customers . Therefore , indiscriminately targeting all likely responders , we should target only undecided customers who can contribute to the increase of total buyers . This is the core concept of influential marketing . Definition 2 ( Influential Marketing ) For a given number of contacts , influential marketing aims to maximize UBR by targeting undecided customers . ■
Influential marketing increases the total number of buyers by generating “ new ” buyers , ie undecided customers . While the traditional paradigm may have a larger RR , many of the responders are in fact decided buyers who are not “ new ” buyers . To increase the number of new buyers , the right objective is not to maximize RR but to maximize UBR .
The main challenge of influential marketing is that undecided customers were not explicitly labeled in the normal campaign data . When a contacted customer responds , she could be either a decided or undecided customer ; we do not know which . Therefore , standard supervised learning where the positive and negative classes are explicitly labeled is not directly applicable . Another challenge is that given their existing investments , campaign managers generally do not wish to switch to a different set of marketing methodologies . This consideration is particularly important in the business environment where deliveries have a priority over publications . A solution that addresses these requirements must be innovative in that it not only identifies undecided buyers , but also requires little or no changes to standard methods . We present a solution with this goal in mind .
3 . Proposed Solution
31 Data Collection
The novelty of our method lies in collecting the training data in such a way that standard supervised learning can be used to solve the influential marketing problem . Let S be the set of customers contacted . Recall that RR = UBR + DBR , where RR can be directly computed from S . If we can estimate DBR , then we will be able to compute UBR . Suppose we have a set of customers similar to S , denoted Ssim ; while customers of S are contacted , customers of Ssim are not contacted . Then DBR can be estimated by observing the response rate of Ssim . Based on this observation , we collect two disjoint sets of data , Treatment and Control , from the previous campaign . • Treatment : a set of customers who were contacted . • Control : a set of customers who were not contacted . The purchase behaviors of Control are used to approximate those of Treatment under the alternative marketing decision of not contacting them .
For Control to approximate Treatment , the two groups need to share similar characteristics , ie come from the same underlying population . Suppose the training data came from a previous campaign . In recent years , it has become a standard industry practice to withhold a random subset of selected customers for comparative purposes . In particular , for each selected customer c , toss a ρ/(1–ρ)sided coin to determine whether c was added to Treatment or Control ; ρ specifies the ratio of Treatment and Control . Customers withheld will not be contacted , but their purchase behaviors will still be recorded .
With the same split ratio , we randomly split Treatment into two sets , T1 and T2 , and randomly split Control into two sets , C1 and C2 . <T1 , C1> is for model training and <T2 , C2> is for model evaluation . Subsequently , <T1 , C1> is called the training set and <T2 , C2> is called the validation set .
32 Model Construction
We partition <T1 , C1> into four groups , as shown in the learning matrix in Table 1 : Group ( 1 ) : The customers in T1 who were contacted and responded . They can be either decided or undecided customers ; we do not know which .
Group ( 2 ) : The customers in T1 who were contacted but did not respond . They must be non customers .
Group ( 3 ) : The customers in C1 who purchased the product without the contact . They must be decided customers .
Group ( 4 ) : The customers in C1 who received no contact and made no purchase . They can be either non or undecided customers ; we do not know which .
Table 1 . The learning matrix .
Response Yes
Treatment
( T1 ) decided + undecided
( 1 )
Control
( C1 ) decided
( 3 )
No non
( 2 ) non + undecided
( 4 )
Observe that undecided customers are present only in groups ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) . This motivates us to combine ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) to form the positive class , PC , which covers all undecided customers . However , PC also includes some decided and non customers . To “ remove ” decided and non customers from PC , we combine ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) to form the negative class , NC . Note that the only class of customer appearing in PC but not NC is the undecided . Therefore , if we apply a supervised learning algorithm Alg with PC as the positive class and NC as the negative the class , characteristics exclusive of PC ― such characteristics are likely those of undecided customers . We assume that Alg is able to rank records by the probability of belonging to PC . Most supervised learning algorithms have this feature . Alg is expected to rank a customer c higher if c has a higher probability of belonging to PC than to NC . From the above analysis , we know that the only class of the algorithm will to pick out tend customer belonging to PC but not NC is the “ undecided . ” Therefore , a higher rank given by Alg indicates a higher probability of being undecided . Claim . Assume that Alg is capable of ranking customers according to their probability of belonging to the positive class PC . Then for the model returned by Figure 3 , if customer c1 is ranked higher than customer c2 , c1 has a higher probability of being undecided than c2 . ■
Our proposed solution also alleviates the notorious class imbalance problem suffered by most supervised learning algorithms [ 5 ] . Since the response rate in a direct marketing campaign is typically very low , the size of ( 1 ) tends to be much smaller than ( 2 ) , and the size of ( 3 ) tends to be much smaller than ( 4 ) . By combining the small ( 1 ) with the large ( 4 ) to classify against the combination of another small ( 3 ) and large ( 2 ) , we effectively lessen the degree of imbalance of classes .
Further , the learning matrix provides a flexible way for the campaign to focus on the different class of customers . Typically , the size of ( 3 ) is much smaller than the size of ( 4 ) due to the vast majority of non customers . When targeting undecided customers as in influential marketing , we may want to over sample ( 3 ) to emphasize the characteristics of decided customers in NC so to “ remove ” the decided customers in PC . On the other hand , when the focus is on all responders ( either undecided or decided ) as in the traditional paradigm , we may want to under sample ( 4 ) to limit the number of non customers in PC .
Model Construction Input : The training data <T1 , C1> . Parameter : A supervised learning algorithm Alg .
Output : A model that ranks records by their probability of belonging to the undecided class .
1 . Combine ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) into the positive class PC ; 2 . Combine ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) into the negative class NC ; 3 . Feed PC and NC into Alg ; 4 . Return the model learnt by Alg .
Figure 3 . Model construction .
33 Model Evaluation
A direct marketing campaign contacts the top x % customers as ranked by the model ; x is the marketing percentile . The choice of x should maximize the net profit within the budget constraint . To evaluate a model , M , we apply M to rank the validation data <T2 , C2> . For a specified x , let T2x and C2x denote the top x percentile of the ranked list of T2 and C2 , respectively . Let • MT denote RR in T2x , • MC denote RR in C2x .
From Definition 1 , MT = UBR + DBR ; UBR and DBR are the percentages of undecided and decided customers in T2x , respectively . For an estimated DBR , we can compute UBR by MT – DBR . To estimate DBR , as discussed in Section 3.1 , we can use RR of C2x , ie MC , to approximate DBR of T2x because T2x and C2x are ranked by applying the same model to a similar population , and because all the responses of C2x are from decided customers . This gives the following computation of UBR for T2x . Theorem 1 . For T2x , UBR is given by MT – MC . ■
An effective direct marketing campaign should perform better than random marketing where customers are randomly selected for contact . Let Random denote the selection model for random marketing . Note that the expected RR of Random is the same across all marketing percentiles x . Hence , we take MT and MC of Random to be those at x = 100 % , denoted RT and RC , respectively . UBR of Random is given by RT – RC .
The model evaluation is summarized using the positive influence curve ( PIC ) in Figure 4 . The x axis represents the marketing percentile x . The y axis represents MT – MC , or UBR , which is the marketing value relative to the purchases made only by decided customers . ( MT – MC ) – ( RT – RC ) gives the model value relative to the marketing value of Random . An effective model should have both a large marketing value and a large model value . In PIC , this means the curve MT – MC is well above the curve RT – RC and has a decreasing trend from left to right , as undecided customers concentrate in the top percentiles .
)
(
% C M T M
7 6
5
4
3 2
1 0
Model value
Marketing value
MT MC RT RC
10 20
30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Top x % selected by model
Figure 4 . The positive influence curve ( PIC ) .
4 . Related Work lift curve ( ALC ) as
The response rate of contacted customers is a common objective for direct marketing . Some works use the the performance accumulative criterion receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves [ 3 , 4 ] to measure the relative trade offs between true positives and false positives . Alternatively , cost sensitive learning [ 1 ] recognizes that
[ 8 ] . Others use the identifying a buyer as a non buyer incurs a higher cost than identifying a non buyer as a buyer . Essentially , with any of these evaluation criteria , a model tends to target decided customers instead of undecided customers .
To our knowledge , the only published work addressing the same problem as ours is Lo ’s work [ 9 ] . For every customer i , Lo predicts the probability of i responding if contacted , and the probability of i responding if not contacted . A treatment variable T is added to the training data ; Ti = 1 when i was contacted and Ti = 0 when i was not contacted . A supervised learning algorithm is then used to train a model for the response variable . As in the traditional approach , the positive and negative classes represent whether a customer responds . Given a customer i , the model computes the two probabilities assuming Ti = 1 and Ti = 0 . Customers are then ranked by the difference between the two probabilities .
However , for the treatment variable T to be useful , Lo ’s approach implicitly requires that T is discriminative of the classes ; that is , T = 1 is more associated with the positive class than the negative class . This implies that the campaign from which such data was collected has successfully targeted undecided customers . In other words , a successful model has been deployed in the previous campaign , which defeats the purpose of constructing another such model from the training data . In addition , we observed that Lo [ 9 ] has only experimented with a set of simulated data that has an unusually high response rate , eg MT = 90 % at x = 10 % . Essentially , the fundamental limitation of Lo ’s approach is the lack of attempt in isolating undecided customers . In particular , all undecided customers in Control are labeled as negative .
5 . Experimental Evaluation
We experimented on real campaign data , provided by the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ( CIBC ) . This data set contains 24,506 records collected from a loan product promotion conducted by the bank . Each record is described by 608 independent attributes , in which about 1/6 are categorical and the remaining numerical . A detailed breakdown is given in Table 2 . Observe that the response rate of Treatment , or RT , is 5.4 % , and the response rate of Control , or RC , is 43 % This indicates that the marketing value of Random is RT – RC = 11 %
Note that the two groups , “ Response = Yes ” and “ Response = No , ” have a similar distribution : 92 % and 90 % of the records received the treatment ( ie T = 1 ) , respectively . This suggests that Lo ’s approach of using the treatment variable T will not be effective on this campaign data set .
All results reported below were obtained with 3 fold cross validation , ie k = 3 . If k is too large , C2 will consist of only 1/k of ( 3 ) , introducing instability to the results . The association rule based classifier ( ARC ) [ 11 ] is chosen for its ability to handle imbalanced classes ; numerical attributes are discretized using MLC++ [ 7 ] . The decision tree in SAS Enterprise Miner [ 10 ] ( SAS EM Tree ) is also used . SAS is the leading software for business analytics across many industries . Both algorithms are capable of ranking records .
Table 2 : Breakdown of the campaign data .
Response
Yes
No
Treatment Control
( 1 ) 1,182 ( 3 ) 108
( 2 ) 20,816 ( 4 ) 2,400
The
The results are summarized in Figures 5 and 6 . We experimentally evaluate how effective each of the following approaches is in terms of targeting undecided customers . “ Traditional ” refers to the traditional objective of maximizing RR . “ Lo ’s ” refers to the approach in [ 9 ] with the use of the treatment variable T . “ Influential ” refers to our approach as presented in this paper ; “ Influential 10 ” also refers to our approach but with group ( 3 ) over sampled at 10 times . In both figures , the horizontal axis represents the percentile x , and the vertical axis represents the difference between MT and MC , or MT – MC . Recall that MT – MC gives UBR .
51 Traditional Approach traditional paradigm only uses records of contacted customers , ie T1 , as it does not consider how one would behave without the contact . Using ARC , we observe that MT and MC are highly correlated , leading to a small MT – MC as shown by “ Traditional ” in Figure 5 . Indeed , MT is higher in the top percentiles , having a decreasing trend along the x axis ; however , MC behaves similarly . The high correlation suggests most responders in T2x are also likely to respond given no contact , ie the majority of responders in T2x are voluntary buyers .
SAS EM Tree performed poorly with the highly imbalanced class distribution ( in T1 only 5.4 % is positive ) . [ 8 , 5 ] suggested under sampling the majority class may help , so we under sample at different rates and construct a model for each rate . The model with the best lift index [ 8 ] is selected as the final model . The result is similar to ARC , as shown in Figure 6 .
The experiments clearly show that models built by the traditional paradigm favor decided customers . An effective model should target undecided so that more buyers can be generated with fewer contacts . Evidently , MT by itself is not an effective evaluation criterion . Even if MT is high , MT – MC may actually be small .
52 Lo ’s Approach
Following Lo ’s approach with ARC , we observe MT – generally very low response rates . As a campaign typically has a small marketing percentile , eg 10%–30 % , a campaign shall benefit from our approach .
)
%
(
C M T M
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
)
%
(
C M T M
Influential 10 Influential Lo's Traditional
10
20
90
100
50
40
80 30 Top x % selected by model
70
60
Figure 5 . PIC comparison , ARC .
Influential 10 Influential Lo's Traditional
10
20
50
40
30 80 Top x % selected by model
60
70
90
100
Figure 6 . PIC comparison , SAS EM Tree .
References
[ 1 ] P . Domingos , Metacost : A general method for making classifiers cost sensitive , In SIGKDD , 1999 . [ 2 ] P . Domingos and M . Richardson , Mining the network value of customers , In SIGKDD , 2001 . [ 3 ] P . Giudici , Applied Data Mining , John Wiley & Sons , 2003 . [ 4 ] JA Hanley and BJ McNeil , The meaning and use of the area under a receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , Radiology , 143(1 ) , 1982 , pp . 29 36 . [ 5 ] N . Japkowicz , The class imbalance problem : Significance and strategies , In ICAI , 2000 . [ 6 ] KDD Cup 98 . http://wwwkdnuggetscom/meetings/kdd98/kdd cup 98html [ 7 ] R . Kohavi , D . Sommerfield , and J . Dougherty . Data mining using MLC++ : A machine learning library in C++ . ( http://wwwsgicom/tech/mlc ) [ 8 ] CX Ling and C . Li , Data mining for direct marketing : Problems and solutions . In SIGKDD , 1998 . [ 9 ] VSY Lo , The true lift model – A novel data mining approach to response modeling in database marketing , SIGKDD Explorations , 4(2 ) , 2002 , pp . 78 86 . [ 10 ] SAS Institute . The SAS system . ( http://wwwsascom ) [ 11 ] K . Wang , S . Zhou , Q . Yang and JMS Yeung , Mining customer value : From association rules to direct marketing , Journal of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery , 11(1 ) , 2005 , pp . 57 80 . indicator is not a good
MC has increased slightly compared to the traditional approach , as show by “ Lo ’s ” in Figure 5 . Note that the treatment variable T to differentiate between classes as T = 1 is similarly associated with both classes . This means that the model is likely to ignore T . When this occurs , Lo ’s approach becomes similar to the traditional approach . Quite often , the predicted probability given Ti = 1 and the predicted probability given Ti = 0 is the same , making it ineffective to rank customers based on the difference of the two probabilities . SAS EM Tree produces worse result as it is even more similar to the result of Section 5.1 , as in Figure 6 .
53 Influential Marketing
By combining groups ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) to form PC and groups ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) to form NC , the percentage of positive records in the training data to 14.6 % from the original 54 % With a more balanced class distribution , we did not need to under sample when using SAS EM Tree . The results produced by SAS EM Tree and ARC are similar .
Using our approach , we observe MT and MC have a reverse trend up to the top 50 % percentile : MT decreases while MC increases . The larger MT – MC ( given by “ Influential ” ) , demonstrates the model ’s effectiveness at targeting undecided customers . Note that the behaviors of decided and non customers are the same in T2x and C2x . While the undecided customers in T2x contribute to MT ( because they were contacted ) , the undecided customers in C2x do not contribute to MC ( because they were not contacted ) . Thus , the undecided customers solely accounts for the difference MT – MC . Additionally , we observe that both MT and MC have decreased slightly compared to the results in Section 5.1 and 52 It is our intention to not contact decided customers . As a model focuses on undecided customers , fewer decided customers are selected , which explains the decrease in both MT and MC .
Due to the small number of ( 3 ) , the effect of having ( 3 ) in NC to “ remove ” decided customers from PC may be limited . Therefore , ( 3 ) is over sampled 5 , 10 , and 20 times in the training data . The models built from these over sampled training sets have all shown a further increase in MT – MC ( see “ Influential 10 ” ) . The increase is mainly due to the further decline in MC , suggesting even fewer decided customers were selected . This is exactly what we want to achieve by over sampling ( 3 ) in NC .
The decreasing trend of both “ Influential ” and “ Influential 10 ” indicates that our approach does in fact focus on undecided customers . On the other hand , the nearly flat trend of the traditional approach suggests that it fails badly at targeting undecided customers .
Our approach is significantly better in the top 20 % for ARC and the top 40 % for SAS EM Tree , considering the
