Application of Classification Association Rule Mining for
Mammalian Mesenchymal Stem Cell Differentiation
Weiqi Wang1 , Yanbo J . Wang2 , René Bañares Alcántara1 , Zhanfeng Cui1 , and Frans Coenen3
1 Department of Engineering Science , Parks Road , University of Oxford , OX1 3PJ , UK
{weiqiwang,renebanares,zhanfengcui}@engoxacuk
2 Information Management Center , China Minsheng Banking Corp . , Ltd .
Room 606 , Building No . 8 , 1 Zhongguancun Nandajie , Beijing , 100873 , China wangyanbo@cmbccomcn
3 Department of Computer Science , University of Liverpool Ashton Building , Ashton Street , Liverpool , L69 3BX , UK
Coenen@liverpoolacuk
ABSTRACT In this paper , data mining is used to analyze the differentiation of mammalian Mesenchymal Stem Cells ( MSCs ) . A database comprising the key parameters which , we believe , influence the destiny of mammalian MSCs has been constructed . This paper introduces Classification Association Rule Mining ( CARM ) as a data mining technique in the domain of tissue engineering and initiates a new promising research field . The experimental results show that the proposed approach performs well with respect to the accuracy of ( classification ) prediction . Moreover , it was found that some rules mined from the constructed MSC database are meaningful and useful .
Keywords : Classification Association Rule Mining , Data Mining , Differentiation , Mesenchymal Stem Cells , Tissue Engineering .
1 Introduction
Mesenchymal Stem Cells ( MSCs ) have been claimed to be an integral part of tissue engineering due to their proliferation and differentiation potential both in vivo and in vitro [ 5 , 12 , 36 ] , and have become one of the most significant research topics in the past several decades . MSCs are able to differentiate along the osteogenic , chondrogenic , adipogenic , myogenic , tendonogenic , neurogenic lineages under appropriate stimuli [ 28 , 31 , 33 ] generating bone , cartilage , fat , muscle , tendon , neuron cells respectively ( Fig 1 ) . The significance of the application of MSCs in clinical therapy has triggered an urgent need for computational prediction of MSC differentiation [ 14 ] .
A large amount of studies have been carried out with the aim of understanding the mechanisms involved in MSCs’ proliferation and differentiation both in vivo and in vitro [ 4 , 17 , 21 , 25 , 26 , 27 ] . However , little has been achieved so far due to the enormous complexity of the intracellular pathways in MSCs , especially during their differentiation process [ 6 ] .
P . Perner ( Ed. ) : ICDM 2009 , LNAI 5633 , pp . 51–61 , 2009 . © Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009
52
W . Wang et al .
On the other hand , the experiments and studies which have been executed were not interrelated with each other , ie different experiments focused on different combinations of parameters affecting MSC differentiation , including animal species , in vitro vs . in vivo cultures , MSC culture medium , supplements to the culture medium and growth factors , culture type ( monolayer vs . 3D culture ) , cell attaching substrate ( for monolayer culture ) vs . scaffold ( for 3D culture ) and , in particular , the differentiation fates of MSCs in terms of the different lineages to which the cells committed [ 17 , 18 , 20 , 21 , 27 ] . The scattered experimental data results in a large amount of noise in the database and a discrete data structure , which cannot take advantage of traditional mathematical modelling methods .
For this reason , we aim to classify the data according to the different cell fates and predict mammalian MSC differentiation . A series of computational techniques have been compared , and data mining has been found to be a promising method due to its ability of processing discrete and noisy data . In particular , the data mining classification approach known as Classification Association Rule Mining ( CARM ) [ 10 ] is used in this study .
Fig 1 . Differentiation potential of MSCs ( modified from [ 33 ] )
The rest of this paper is organized as follows . In section 2 we describe some related work relevant to this study . Section 3 describes the application of CARM for mammalian MSC differentiation , and the construction of a domain specific classtransactional database for this study . Experimental results , which demonstrate that the proposed approach performs well with respect to the accuracy of ( classification ) prediction , are presented in section 4 . In section 5 , we present our conclusions and discuss open issues for further research .
2 Related Work
2.1 Classification Rule Mining
Classification Rule Mining ( CRM ) [ 23 , 29 ] is a technique for identifying Classification Rules ( CRs ) from a given class database Dc , the objective being to build a classifier to categorize “ unseen ” data records . Generally Dc is described by a relational database table that includes a class attribute – whose values are a set of predefined
Application of Classification Association Rule Mining
53 class labels C = {c1 , c2 , … , c|C|–1 , c|C|} . The process of CRM consists of two stages : ( i ) a training phase where CRs are generated from a set of training data instances DR ⊂ DC ; and ( ii ) a test phase where “ unseen ” instances in a test data set DE ⊂ DC are assigned into predefined class groups . A DC is established as DR ∪ DE , where DR ∩ DE = ∅ . Both DR and DE share the same database attributes except the class attribute . By convention the last attribute in each DR record usually indicates the predefined class of this record , noted as the class attribute , while the class attribute is missing in DE .
Mechanisms on which CRM algorithms have been based include : decision trees [ 29 ] , naive Bayes [ 24 ] , K Nearest Neighbor ( K NN ) [ 19 ] , Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) [ 7 ] , etc . • Decision Tree Induction : In this approach CRs are mined based on a greedy algorithm . The approach can be separated into two stages . In the first stage the tree is constructed from DR and this is followed by a tree pruning phase . In the second stage the pruned tree is used in CR generation . C4.5 [ 29 ] is the best known decision tree based CRM method and operates by recursively splitting DR on the attribute that produces the maximum information gain to generate the decision tree . This tree is then pruned according to an error estimate . The result is used to classify “ unseen ” data records .
• Naive Bayes : The typical mechanism found in Bayesian CRM approaches such as [ 13 ] is naive Bayes [ 24 ] , which has been widely applied in machine learning . The general idea of naive Bayes is to make use of knowledge of the probabilities involving attribute values and classes in the training dataset to produce a model of a machine learning application that can then be applied to “ unseen ” data . The term naive is used to refer to the assumption that the conditional probability of a database attribute value given a class is independent of the conditional probability of other attribute values given that class . A naive Bayes classifier [ 30 ] is built using DR , and comprises a set of conditional probabilities for each database attribute and each class ci ∈ C , so that there are n × |C| conditional probabilities , where n represents the number of attributes in DR and |C| is the size function ( cardinality ) of C . A naive Bayes classifier also comprises a set of prior class probabilities , one for each class . All these probabilities are then used to classify “ unseen ” data records in DE according to Bayes’ theorem .
• K Nearest Neighbor : K NN [ 19 ] is a well known statistical approach used in CRM , and classifies an “ unseen ” data record d′j′ ∈ DE , by assigning to that record the most frequent class in the set of the K most similar instances to d′j′ , identified in DR . To identify the K most similar training instances for d′j′ , calculation of the Euclidean distance value between each training data record dj ∈ DR and d′j′ is commonly used : distance(dj , d′j′ ) = √ ( ∑⎨k = 1…n⎬ ( dj.k –d′j′.k)2 ) ,
( 1 ) where dj.k and d′j′.k are the values of the k th data attribute in DC for dj and d′j′ . • Support Vector Machine : The objective of using SVM [ 7 ] is to find a hypothesis ĥ which minimizes the true error defined as the probability that ĥ produces an erroneous result . SVM makes use of linear functions of the form :
54
W . Wang et al . f(x ) = w T x + b ,
( 2 ) where w is the weight vector , x is the input vector , and w T x is the inner product between w and x . The main concept of SVM is to select a hyperplane that separates the positive and negative examples while maximizing the smallest margin . Standard SVM techniques produce binary classifiers as opposed to multiclassifiers . Two common approaches to support the application of SVM techniques to the multi class problem are One Against All ( OAA ) and One Against One ( OAO ) .
2.2 Association Rule Mining
Association Rule Mining ( ARM ) , first introduced in [ 1 ] , aims to extract a set of Association Rules ( ARs ) from a given transactional database DT . An AR describes an implicative co occurring relationship between two sets of binary valued transactional database attributes ( items ) , expressed in the form of an “ antecedent ⇒ consequent ” rule . Cornelis et al . [ 11 ] suggest that the concept of mining ARs can be dated back to the work in 1960 ’s [ 15 ] .
More generally , we define ARM as follows . Let I = {a1 , a2 , … , an–1 , an} be a set of items , and Ŧ = {T1 , T2 , … , Tm–1 , Tm} be a set of transactions ( data records ) , a transactional database DT is described by Ŧ , where each Tj ∈ Ŧ comprises a set of items I′ ⊆ I . In ARM , two threshold values are usually used to determine the significance of an AR : 1 . Support : A set of items S is called an itemset . The support of S is the proportion of transactions T in Ŧ for which S ⊆ T . If the support of S exceeds a usersupplied support threshold σ , S is defined to be a frequent itemset .
2 . Confidence : Represents how “ strongly ” an itemset X implies another itemset Y , where X , Y ⊆ I and X ∩ Y = ∅ . A confidence threshold α , supplied by the user , is used to distinguish high confidence ARs from low confidence ARs .
An AR X ⇒ Y is said to be valid when the support for the co occurrence of X and Y exceeds σ , and the confidence of this AR exceeds α . The computation of support is : support(X ∪ Y ) = count(X ∪ Y ) / |Ŧ| ,
( 3 ) where count(X ∪ Y ) is the number of transactions containing the set X ∪ Y in Ŧ , and |Ŧ| is the size function ( cardinality ) of the set Ŧ . The computation of confidence is : confidence(X ⇒ Y ) = support(X ∪ Y ) / support(X ) .
( 4 )
Informally , “ X ⇒ Y ” can be interpreted as : if X is found in a transaction , it is likely that Y also will be found .
2.3 Classification Association Rule Mining
An overlap between ARM and CRM is CARM ( Classification Association Rule Mining ) , which strategically solves the traditional CRM problem by applying ARM techniques . The idea of CARM , first introduced in [ 2 ] , aims to extract a set of
Application of Classification Association Rule Mining
55
Classification Association Rules ( CARs ) from a class transactional database DC T . Let DT be a transactional database , and C = {c1 , c2 , … , c|C|–1 , c|C|} be a set of predefined class labels , DC T is described by DT × C . DC T can also be defined as a special class database DC , where all database attributes and the class attribute are valued in a binary manner – “ Boolean attributes can be considered a special case of categorical attributes ” [ 32 ] . A CAR is a special AR that describes an implicative co occurring relationship between a set of binary valued data attributes and a predefined class , expressed in the form of an “ X ⇒ ci ” rule , where X is an itemset found in DT ( as “ DC T – C ” ) and ci is a predefined class in C .
2.4 Advantages of CARM
CARM offers the following advantages with respect to the CRM techniques mentioned above [ 3 , 35 ] :
1 . The approach is efficient during both the training and categorization phases , especially when handling a large volume of data .
2 . The classifier built in this approach can be read , understood and modified by humans .
Furthermore , CARM is relatively insensitive to noise data . CARM builds a classifier by extracting a set of CARs from a given set of training instances . Possible CARs are determined by : ( i ) a large enough support , and ( ii ) a large enough confidence . Usually , rules derived from noise in the data will fail to reach these thresholds and will be discarded .
In comparison , CRM approaches other than CARM , ie naive Bayes , K NN , SVM , etc . , do not present the classifier in a human readable fashion , so that users do not see why the ( classification ) predictions have been made . Rules generated by a decision tree based classifier can be read and understood by human ; however , Coenen et al . [ 9 ] suggest that results presented in the studies of [ 22 ] and [ 23 ] show that in many cases CARM offers higher classification accuracy than decision tree based classification .
For these reasons it is proposed to use a CARM approach to address the prediction of mammalian MSC differentiation . One of the existing CARM frameworks is the CMAR ( Classification based on Multiple Association Rules ) algorithm [ 22 ] . CMAR generates CARs ( from a given set of training instances ) through an FP tree [ 16 ] based approach . Experimental results using this algorithm reported in [ 22 ] show that it could achieve high classification accuracy for a range of data sets .
3 Database Construction for Mammalian MSC Differentiation
In order to make a ( classification ) prediction of mammalian MSC differentiation using CARM , a domain dependent database containing 375 parameters that are believed to influence the MSC differentiation has been built and can be accessed online1 . The parameters in this database include the most significant ones , such as donor species , in vitro vs . in vivo culture , culture medium , supplements and growth factors , culture
1 http://wwwoxford tissue engineeringorg/forum/pluginphp?identifier=publish&module=publish
56
W . Wang et al . type ( monolayer vs . 3D culture ) , substrate ( for monolayer culture ) vs . scaffold ( for 3D culture ) , MSC differentiation fate , as well as other potentially important parameters including age of donor , cell passage number , concentrations of chemicals and buffer , cell seeding density , incubation duration , pH value , expression of cell markers , expansion fold of cell number , etc . All the records are abstracted from previously published papers and each is stated clearly with the corresponding reference .
The current size of this database is 203 records , each containing attributes including experimental conditions and results , ie rule antecedents and rule consequentclasses respectively . There are four types of attributes in the database : • For the qualitative parameters which have only two possible values , such as the presence/absence of insulin in the culture medium , the corresponding attributes in the database are binary , ie ‘1’ refers to ‘presence’ and ‘0’ refers to ‘absence’ .
• For the qualitative parameters which have a set of possible categorical values , such as animal species , the attributes are stored as integer symbols .
• For the quantitative parameters , such as cell seeding density , the attributes are stored as real numbers .
• For the descriptive parameters , such as additional conditions , the attributes are stored as text/characters .
3.1 Data Filtering
The database contains a large variety of information , among which some parameters are previously known to be more important and effective to the differentiation fates than others . Those parameters and their significance are listed in Table 1 .
Other parameters , such as buffer , gas condition , pH value , etc . , seem to be just for facilitating the differentiation . We are also aware that procedures such as radiation ,
Table 1 . The most significant parameters in the MSC database
Parameters
Donor Species
In Vitro / In Vivo
Culture Medium
Supplements & Growth Factors
Culture Type ( 2D vs . 3D )
Substrate ( for 2D ) / Scaffold ( for 3D )
Differentiation Fate
Significance/Description
Same culture conditions on MSCs from different species of mammal may lead to different results .
MSC differentiation varies significantly from in vivo to in vitro environment .
Most essential environment where MSCs grow , proliferate and differentiate .
Chemicals that maintain MSC differentiation potential or influence their differentiation fate .
MSC differentiation sometimes differs significantly from monolayer to 3D culture , even under the same culture medium and supplements .
Influences cell viability . A chemically modified substrate can even change MSCs’ differentiation fate .
The most significant and obvious result after cell culture . Used as the classes in the database and the prediction in this study .
Application of Classification Association Rule Mining
57 centrifugation and mechanical stimulation sometimes affect MSCs , and that MSCs from bone marrow are sometimes different from those from other sources , eg umbilical cord blood . However , in order to identify plausible MSC differentiation rules the essential parameters considered were those in Table 1 ; other parameters could be excluded if the purpose were to predict the MSC differentiation fate , according to the “ unseen ” rules .
3.2 Data Normalization and Cleaning
In this study , only the parameters listed in Table 1 were extracted from the MSC database and used for the ( classification ) prediction . Consequently , the number of attributes in the abstracted database was reduced from 375 to 105 . The database was then discretised and normalised using the LUCS KDD Discretised Normalised ( DN ) software2 , so that data are presented in a binary format suitable for use by CARM applications . It should be noted that the database was re arranged so that occurrences of classes ( ie osteogenesis , chondrogenesis , etc . ) were distributed evenly throughout the database . This then allowed CMAR to be applied to ( 90 % – training set , 10 % – test set ) divisions of the database with Ten fold Cross Validation ( TCV ) accuracy setting . In this study , the discretisation and normalisation process results in a data file with the number of attributes increased to 173 .
This discretised and normalised data file contains a number of noisy data , generally caused by the absence of culture conditions such as some growth factors . For example , if the growth factor insulin is absent in a record , this record will have an attribute representing “ absence of insulin ” after the discretisation and normalisation process . However , the rules that we are looking for in this study are those without the information of “ absence ” , ie those only containing the information of “ presence ” . Thus , all the attributes representing “ absence ” were then eliminated from the data file , resulting in the final input data file for CARM . In this final input file , all the records cover five classes in total , ie five kinds of MSC fates : “ osteogenesis ” , “ chondrogenesis ” , “ adipogenesis ” , “ neurogenesis ” , and “ proliferation without differentiation ” .
4 Results
In this section , we aim to evaluate the usage of CARM for mammalian MSC differentiation . The evaluation was performed using the CMAR algorithm although any other CARM classifier generator could equally well have been used . Experiments were run on a 2.00 GHz Intel(R ) Core(TM)2 CPU with 2.00 GB of RAM running under Windows Command Processor . The evaluation undertaken used a confidence threshold value ( α ) of 50 % and a support threshold value ( σ ) of 1 % ( as previously used in published CARM evaluations [ 8 , 9 , 22 , 34] ) . The overall ( classification ) prediction accuracy is 7704 %
There were 163 CMAR rules generated from the input data file , among which many are found to be meaningful and useful . Two rules are described as an example , with the actual confidence values presented in square brackets :
2 http://wwwcsclivacuk/~frans/KDD/Software/LUCS KDD DN/lucs kdd_DNhtml
58
W . Wang et al .
1 . Rule # 49 : {in vitro + monolayer + human donor + DMEM + TGFβ1 + plastic substrate} ⇒ {chondrogenesis} [ 100.0% ] , which can be interpreted as : in monolayer culture in vitro , human MSCs are most likely to undergo chondrogenesis in the presence of cell culture medium DMEM ( Dulbecco ’s Modified Eagle ’s Medium ) and growth factor TGFβ1 ( Transforming Growth Factor β1 ) , on plastic substrate ( Fig 2 ) .
Fig 2 . Description of rule # 49
2 . Rule # 86 : {DMEM + FBS + ascorbate 2 phosphate + Dex} ⇒ {osteogenesis} [ 93.33% ] , which can be interpreted as : in DMEM medium supplemented with FBS ( Fetal Bovine Serum ) , MSCs are very likely to be induced to osteogenesis under the stimuli of ascorbate 2 phosphate and Dex ( Dexamethasone ) together ( Fig 3 ) .
Fig 3 . Description of rule # 86
5 Conclusions
In this study , the ( classification ) prediction of MSC differentiation has been achieved using CARM , with an accuracy of 7704 % We have introduced , for the first time , data mining techniques to mesenchymal stem cell , initiating a new promising research field . We are aware , nevertheless , that there is room to increase the ( classification ) prediction accuracy , as well as to streamline the pruning of generated rules by improving the CARM technique or using alternative mechanisms . Additionally , many of
Application of Classification Association Rule Mining
59 the identified rules were found to be already known in the laboratory . However , the identification of completely original rules is possible and expected if the size and contents of the MSC database are properly expanded in the future .
Acknowledgments . The authors would like to thank the following colleagues from the Department of Engineering Science at the University of Oxford for their valuable suggestions to this study : Paul Raju , Norazharuddin Shah Abdullah , Prof . James Triffitt , Nuala Trainor , Clarence Yapp , Dr . Cathy Ye , Dr . Xia Xu , Dr . Uday Tirlapur , Yang Liu , Zhiqiang Zhao , Dr . Shengda Zhou and Dr . Renchen Liu .
References
1 . Agrawal , R . , Imielinski , T . , Swami , A . : Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Database . In : Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data , Washington , DC , USA , pp . 207–216 . ACM Press , New York ( 1993 )
2 . Ali , K . , Manganaris , S . , Srikant , R . : Partial Classification using Association Rules . In : Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Newport Beach , CA , USA , pp . 115–118 . AAAI Press , Menlo Park ( 1997 )
3 . Antonie , ML , Zaiane , OR : Text Document Categorization by Term Association . In : Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , Maebashi City , Japan , pp . 19–26 . IEEE Computer Society Press , Los Alamitos ( 2002 )
4 . Battula , VL , Bareiss , PM , Treml , S . , Conrad , S . , Albert , I . , Hojak , S . , Abele , H . , Schewe , B . , Just , L . , Skutella , T . , Buhring , HJ : Human Placenta and Bone Marrow derived MSC Cultured in Serum free , b FGF containing Medium Express Cell Surface Frizzled 9 and SSEA 4 and Give Rise to Multilineage Differentiation . Differentiation 75 , 279–291 ( 2007 )
5 . Beeres , SL , Atsma , DE , van der Laarse , A . , Pijnappels , DA , van Tuyn , J . , Fibbe , WE , de Vries , AAF , Ypey , DL , van der Wall , EE , Schalij , MJ : Human Adult Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells Repair Experimental Conduction Block in Rat Cardiomyocyte Cultures . American College of Cardiology 46(10 ) , 1943–1952 ( 2005 )
6 . Bianco , P . , Riminucci , M . , Gronthos , S . , Robey , PG : Bone Marrow Stromal Stem Cells :
Nature , Biology , and Potential Applications . Stem Cells 19 , 180–192 ( 2001 )
7 . Boser , BE , Guyon , IM , Vapnik , VN : A Training Algorithm for Optimal Margin Classifiers . In : Proceedings of the 5th ACM Annual Workshop on Computational Learning Theory , Pittsburgh , PA , USA , pp . 144–152 . ACM Press , New York ( 1992 )
8 . Coenen , F . , Leng , P . : An Evaluation of Approaches to Classification Rule Selection . In : Proceedings of the 4th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , Brighton , UK , pp . 359–362 . IEEE Computer Society Press , Los Alamitos ( 2004 )
9 . Coenen , F . , Leng , P . , Zhang , L . : Threshold Tuning for improved Classification Association Rule Mining . In : Ho , T B , Cheung , D . , Liu , H . ( eds . ) PAKDD 2005 . LNCS , vol . 3518 , pp . 216–225 . Springer , Heidelberg ( 2005 )
10 . Coenen , F . , Leng , P . : The Effect of Threshold Values on Association Rule based Classifi cation Accuracy . Journal of Data and Knowledge Engineering 60(2 ) , 345–360 ( 2007 )
11 . Comelis , C . , Yan , P . , Zhang , X . , Chen , G . : Mining Positive and Negative Association Rules from Large Databases . In : Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Conference on Cybernetics and Intelligent Systems , Bangkok , Thailand , pp . 613–618 . IEEE Computer Society Press , Los Alamitos ( 2006 )
60
W . Wang et al .
12 . Derubeis , AR , Cancedda , R . : Bone Marrow Stromal Cells ( BMSCs ) in Bone Engineering : Limitations and Recent Advances . Annals of Biomedical Engineering 32(1 ) , 160–165 ( 2004 )
13 . Domingos , P . , Pazzani , M . : On the Optimality of the Simple Bayesian Classifier under
Zero one Loss . Machine Learning 29(2/3 ) , 103–130 ( 1997 )
14 . Griffith , LG , Swartz , MA : Capturing Complex 3D Tissue Physiology in Vitro . Nature
Reviews Molecular Cell Biology 7 , 211–224 ( 2006 )
15 . Hajek , P . , Havel , I . , Chytil , M . : The GUHA Method of Automatic Hypotheses Determina tion . Computing 1 , 293–308 ( 1966 )
16 . Han , J . , Pei , J . , Yin , Y . : Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation . In : Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data , Dallas , TX , USA , pp . 1–12 . ACM Press , New York ( 2000 )
17 . Hanada , K . , Dennis , JE , Caplan , AI : Stimulatory Effects of Basic Fibroblast Growth Factor and Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2 on Osteogenic Differentiation of Rat Bone Marrow derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells . Journal of Bone and Mineral Research 12 , 1606 ( 1997 )
18 . Haynesworth , SE , Baber , MA , Caplan , AI : Cytokine Expression by Human Marrowderived Mesenchymal Progenitor Cells in Vitro : Effects of Dexamethasone and IL 1a . Journal of Cell Physiology 166(3 ) , 585–592 ( 1996 )
19 . James , M . : Classification Algorithm . Wiley Interscience , New York ( 1985 ) 20 . Kuznetsov , SA , Friedenstein , AJ , Robey , PG : Factors Required for Bone Marrow Stromal
Fibroblast Colony Formation in Vitro . British Journal of Haematology 97 , 561–570 ( 1997 )
21 . Lennon , DP , Haynesworth , SE , Young , RG , Dennis , JE , Caplan , AI : A Chemically defined Medium Supports in Vitro Proliferation and Maintains the Osteochondral Potential of Rat Marrow derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells . Experimental Cell Research 219 , 211–222 ( 1995 )
22 . Li , W . , Han , J . , Pei , J . : CMAR : Accurate and Efficient Classification based on Multiple Class association Rules . In : Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , San Jose , CA , USA , pp . 369–376 . IEEE Computer Society Press , Los Alamitos ( 2001 )
23 . Liu , B . , Hsu , W . , Ma , Y . : Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining . In : Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , New York , USA , pp . 80–86 . AAAI Press , Menlo Park ( 1998 )
24 . Lowd , D . , Domingos , P . : Naive Bayes Models for Probability Estimation . In : Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Machine Learning , Bonn , Germany , pp . 529–536 . ACM Press , New York ( 2005 )
25 . Magaki , T . , Kurisu , K . , Okazaki , T . : Generation of Bone Marrow derived Neural Cells in
Serum free Monolayer Culture . Neuroscience Letters 384 , 282–287 ( 2005 )
26 . Meuleman , N . , Tondreau , T . , Delforge , A . , Dejeneffe , M . , Massy , M . , Libertalis , M . , Bron , D . , Lagneaux , L . : Human Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cell Culture : Serum free Medium Allows Better Expansion than Classical α MEM Medium . European Journal of Haematology 76(4 ) , 309–316 ( 2006 )
27 . Muller , I . , Kordowich , S . , Holzwarth , C . , Spano , C . , Isensee , G . , Staiber , A . , Viebahn , S . , Gieseke , F . , Langer , H . , Gawaz , MP , Horwitz , EM , Conte , P . , Handgretinger , R . , Dominici , M . : Animal Serum free Culture Conditions for Isolation and Expansion of Multipotent Mesenchymal Stromal Cells from Human BM . Cytotherapy 8 , 437–444 ( 2006 )
28 . Pittenger , MF , Mackay , AM , Beck , SC , Jaiswal , RK , Douglas , R . , Mosca , JD , Moorman , MA , Simonetti , DW , Craig , S . , Marshak , DR : Multilineage Potential of Adult Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells . Science 284(5411 ) , 143–147 ( 1999 )
Application of Classification Association Rule Mining
61
29 . Quinlan , JR : C4.5 : Programs for Machine Learning . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers , San
Mateo ( 1993 )
30 . Rish , I . : An Empirical Study of the Naive Bayes Classifier . In : Proceedings of the 2001 IJCAI Workshop on Empirical Methods in Artificial Intelligence , Seattle , WA , USA ( 2001 )
31 . Roelen , BA , Dijke , P . : Controlling Mesenchymal Stem Cell Differentiation by TGFbeta
Family Members . Journal of Orthopaedic Science 8 , 740–748 ( 2003 )
32 . Srikant , R . , Agrawal , R . : Mining Quantitative Association Rules in Large Relational Tables . In : Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data , Montreal , Quebec , Canada , pp . 1–12 . ACM Press , New York ( 1996 )
33 . Tuan , RS , Boland , G . , Tuli , R . : Adult Mesenchymal Stem Cell and Cell based Tissue
Engineering . Arthritis Research & Therapy 5 , 32–45 ( 2003 )
34 . Wang , YJ , Xin , Q . , Coenen , F . : A Novel Rule Ordering Approach in Classification Association Rule Mining . In : Perner , P . ( ed . ) MLDM 2007 . LNCS , vol . 4571 , pp . 339–348 . Springer , Heidelberg ( 2007 )
35 . Yoon , Y . , Lee , GG : Practical Application of Associative Classifier for Document Classification . In : Lee , GG , Yamada , A . , Meng , H . , Myaeng , S H ( eds . ) AIRS 2005 . LNCS , vol . 3689 , pp . 467–478 . Springer , Heidelberg ( 2005 )
36 . Zhang , Y . , Li , C . , Jiang , X . , Zhang , S . , Wu , Y . , Liu , B . , Tang , P . , Mao , N . : Human Placenta derived Mesenchymal Progenitor Cells Support Culture Expansion of Long term Culture initiating Cells from Cord Blood CD34+ Cells . Experimental Hematology 32 , 657–664 ( 2004 )
