How NAGA Uncoils : Searching with Entities and Relations
Gjergji Kasneci Max Planck Institut
Saarbruecken / Germany kasneci aOmpiimpgde
Fabian M . Suchanek
Max Planck Institut
Saarbruecken / Germany suchanek aOmpiimpgde
ABSTRACT Current keyword oriented search engines for the World Wide Web do not allow specifying the semantics of queries . We address this limitation with NAGA1 , a new semantic search engine . NAGA builds on a large semantic knowledge base of binary relationships ( facts ) derived from the Web . NAGA provides a simple , yet expressive query language to query this knowledge base . The results are then ranked with an intuitive scoring mechanism . We show the effectiveness and utility of NAGA by comparing its output with that of Google on some interesting queries .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : General
General Terms : Graph Queries , Knowledge Base , Semantic Search
Keywords : Search , Relation , Entities , Ranking
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The World Wide Web is the world ’s largest knowledge base but we are far from exploiting its full potential . In order to effectively exploit it , we need to extract and structure the information it makes available and provide expressive and efficient ways of querying it . Current keyword oriented search engines merely provide “ best effort ” heuristics to find relevant needles in this humongous haystack .
As a concrete example , suppose we want to find out which other physicists were born in the same year as Max Planck . First , it is close to impossible to formulate this query in terms of keywords . Second , the answer to this question is probably distributed across multiple pages , so that no stateof the art search engine will e able to find it .
There are systems that provide graph oriented keyword search . However , they focus only on implicit semantic relations such as foreign key references among database tuples
1In the mythologies of Hinduism and Buddhism , NAGA is a huge snake . Here , it stands for the size and diversity of the Web .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Maya Ramanath Max Planck Institut
Saarbruecken / Germany ramanath aOmpiimpgde
Gerhard Weikum Max Planck Institut
Saarbruecken / Germany weikum aOmpiimpgde
[ 4 ] ) or references among XML elements ( eg
( eg [ 3 , 2] ) . Other approaches ( eg [ 7 ] ) rely on manual semantic tagging of Web data while our work aims at a completely automatized system . Some approaches ( eg [ 1 ] ) use automated information extraction , but do not reconcile the collected facts into a unified and consistent knowledge base and provide only standard querying capabilities . The ones that do provide unified and consistent models ( based on OWL or SPARQL ) usually lack the means to express uncertainty , which is crucial in the context of automated knowledge extraction and representation .
In this paper , we present NAGA , a new semantic search engine which addresses these problems in an intuitive and comprehensive way . NAGA builds on a graph oriented knowledge base , which consists of facts extracted from the Web with certain confidence values . NAGA ’s expressive query language can be used to formulate precise queries , enabling the user to provide detailed information about his or her information need . The query results are then ranked according to a scoring mechanism that takes their certainty values into account . 2 . DATA MODEL
NAGA ’s data model is a graph , in which nodes are labeled with entities ( eg Max Planck ) and edges are labeled with relationships ( eg bornInYear ) . Each edge , together with its end nodes , represents a fact , eg <Max Planck , bornInYear , 1858> or <Max Planck , type , physicist> . Since these facts are derived from Web pages using possibly unreliable Information Extraction techniques , we attach a certainty value to each fact . labeled multigraph ( V , E , Lv , Le ) , where V is a set of nodes , E ⊆ V × V is a multi set of edges , Lv is a set of node labels and Le is a set of edge labels . Each node v ∈ V has a label l(v ) ∈ Lv and each edge e ∈ E has a label l(e ) ∈ Le . We compute the certainty value c(e ) ∈ [ 0 , 1 ] as :
Formally , our data model is a directed , nX c(e ) =
C(e , Pi)T ( Pi ) i=1
PageRank or similar algorithms . We assumeP where Pi denotes one of the n pages from which the fact corresponding to e was derived . The trust value T ( Pi ) represents the authority of page Pi and can be computed by i T ( Pi ) = 1 . C(e , Pi ) is the confidence with which the fact corresponding to e was extracted from page Pi . Thus , the certainty value for e accumulates trust and extraction quality values across all pages in which the corresponding fact was found .
NAGA ’s knowledge base is a projection of YAGO [ 6 ] . It contains about 1 million entities and 6 million facts , partly extracted by LEILA [ 5 ] . A sample of this knowledge base is shown below : the edges : c(A ) =
Y c(e ) e edge in A
In case there are multiple answers to a query , we return the top k answers ranked by their certainty . 4 . PRELIMINARY RESULTS NAGA is implemented in Java on top of an Oracle data base . The query engine translates the user queries into SQL and performs graph searches to solve relatedness queries . We conducted several preliminary experiments to assess the quality of NAGA ’s answers . Below , we present some sample queries to illustrate the difference between NAGA and Google : Query When was BBC News established ? Which other physicists were born in the same year as Albert Einstein ? What is the connection between Einstein and Bohr ?
Google Answer found on following link . Fails . Gives lots of links to Einstein ’s biography .
Links to the debate between Bohr and Einstein on quantum theory . von Laue , Pfund , Burton , and several others .
NAGA 1922 . are
Both scientists . There are Moon craters and asteroid belts named after them . Tom Cruise connects them by being a vegetarian ( as Einstein ) and by being born in 1962 ( when Bohr died ) . Both are female heads of both attended Oxford , both were in English speaking countries ( India and UK , respectively ) government , politicians
3 . QUERY AND ANSWER MODEL
In the spirit of the example query in the introduction we present a taxonomy of queries supported by NAGA . Basically , a NAGA query is a directed graph G(V , E ) where V is a set of possibly labeled nodes and E a set of possibly labeled edges . EVIDENCE QUERIES ( EQ ) An evidence query is a connected directed graph the nodes and labels of which are labeled .
In this case , the user wants to know whether there is any evidence for a certain hypothesis . DISCOVERY QUERIES ( DQ ) A discovery query is a connected directed graph the nodes and edges of which may be unlabeled .
Links of events involving the two women
What is the connection between Indira Gandhi and Margaret Thatcher ?
Here , the user wants to discover pieces of missing information such as entities or relations , represented by unlabeled nodes or edges respectively . The above query is the query example from the introduction . RELATEDNESS QUERIES ( RQ ) A relatedness query is a connected directed graph the nodes and edges of which may be unlabeled and at least one of the edges is labeled with a regular expression over relationship labels .
In this setting , the user is interested in the broad relation between pieces of information . Obviously , it holds EQ ⊆ DQ ⊆ RQ .
The answer to a query is a subgraph A of the knowledge graph that matches the query . For example , NAGA could answer the above discovery query as follows :
The numbers on the edges of an answer graph represent the certainties of the facts . In order to compute the overall certainty of an answer , the certainties of the edges have to be accumulated . We think of the certainty value as the probability that a fact is correct . Since the facts have been extracted independently , the probability that the complete answer A is correct is just the product of the certainties of
5 . CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
We presented NAGA , a new semantic search engine with a query language that can express complex queries by means of graph structures and regular expressions over relations . For future work , we plan to exploit logical inferences in the knowledge graph and to predict not only the correctness , but also the interestingness of answers . NAGA can be tried out online at : http://wwwmpiimpgde/~suchanek/naga 7 . REFERENCES 6 . BLAH [ 1 ] M . Cafarella , C . Re , D . Suciu , and O . Etzioni . Structured querying of web text data : A technical challenge . In CIDR , 2007 .
[ 2 ] Sara Cohen , Jonathan Mamou , Yaron Kanza , and Yehoshua Sagiv . Xsearch : A semantic search engine for xml . In VLDB , pages 45–56 , 2003 .
[ 3 ] J . Graupmann , R . Schenkel , and G . Weikum . The spheresearch engine for unified ranked retrieval of heterogeneous XML and web documents . In VLDB , 2005 .
[ 4 ] V . Kacholia , S . Pandit , S . Chakrabarti , S . Sudarshan ,
R . Desai , and H . Karambelkar . Bidirectional expansion for keyword search on graph databases . In VLDB , 2005 . [ 5 ] Fabian M . Suchanek , Georgiana Ifrim , and Gerhard
Weikum . Combining linguistic and statistical analysis to extract relations from web documents . In KDD , 2006 .
[ 6 ] Fabian M . Suchanek , Gjergji Kasneci , and Gerhard Weikum . Yago : A Core of Semantic Knowledge . In 16th international World Wide Web conference ( WWW 2007 ) , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM Press .
[ 7 ] Max V¨olkel , Markus Kr¨otzsch , Denny Vrandecic , Heiko
Haller , and Rudi Studer . Semantic wikipedia . In WWW , 2006 .
