BlogScope : Spatio temporal Analysis of the Blogosphere
Department of Computer Science
Nilesh Bansal University of Toronto nilesh@cstorontoedu
Nick Koudas
Department of Computer Science
University of Toronto koudas@cstorontoedu
INTRODUCTION
ABSTRACT We present BlogScope ( wwwblogscopenet ) , a system for analyzing the Blogosphere . BlogScope is an information discovery and text analysis system that offers a set of unique features . Such features include , spatio temporal analysis of blogs , flexible navigation of the Blogosphere through information bursts , keyword correlations and burst synopsis , as well as enhanced ranking functions for improved query answer relevance . We describe the system , its design and the features of the current version of BlogScope . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 Information Storage and Retrieval : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms : Algorithms Keywords : Text Analysis , Blogs , Trends , Visualization , Information Discovery 1 . Blogs have been proliferating over the last couple of years . It is estimated that the size of the Blogosphere in August 2006 was two orders of magnitude larger than three years ago [ 3 ] . Blogging activity includes personal diaries , traveling experiences , opinions ( about products , events , people , music groups , or businesses ) , howto guides , and politics . Collecting , monitoring and analyzing information on blogs can provide key insights on ‘public opinion’ on a variety of topics , such as products , political views , or entertainment . It can also be a source of competitive intelligence information and market trends [ 1 ] . As a result , techniques that aid the collection , analysis , mining and efficient querying of blogs are important and this trend is expected to persist , given the growing popularity of blogs . The information in blogs and its dynamics differ from the traditional web content . Significant differences include : ( 1 ) blog posts have a time of creation adding a temporal dimension , ( 2 ) blog posts may trigger additional posts by the same or other bloggers leading to a discussion in the Blogosphere , and ( 3 ) blog posts can be easily associated with a geographical location which is the same as the location of the author1 . We introduce BlogScope , a system with enhanced analysis capabilities ( well beyond keyword search ) for blogs2 . 1Traditional websites , eg , enwikipediaorg or wwwyahoocom , do not have a well defined geographical location . 2Although we confine our discussion on blogs we believe that much of our discussion is pertinent to all temporally ordered streaming text sources like mailing lists , forums , news groups etc
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Figure 1 : GeoSearch for the query iphone . Black dots on the map represent regions where bloggers are writing about the searched query .
2 . ANALYZING THE BLOGOSPHERE The analysis paradigm that BlogScope facilitates is segmented in four steps . BlogScope identifies what is ‘interesting’ , when it was ‘interesting’ , why it is ‘interesting’ , and where it is ‘interesting’ . On its front page , BlogScope displays a list of hot keywords . Such keywords are computed daily from the actual content of blog posts . Based on this list , a user can formulate a query to seek for relevant blog posts . The traditional text query interface is also supported to identify posts relevant to a query , in case one is seeking for specific information . Once the keywords of interest are identified , a query is formed and relevant blog posts are retrieved . The next question BlogScope aids to answer is when it was interesting . To answer this question , BlogScope plots the popularity of the query keywords in blog posts , as a function of time , and identifies and marks interesting temporal regions as bursts in the keyword popularity . The third step of the analysis is to investigate why it is interesting . Correlated keywords ( intuitively defined as keywords closely related to the keyword query at the specified temporal interval ) are automatically displayed by BlogScope . Such keywords aim to provide explanations or provide insights as to why the keyword experiences a surge in its popularity . Based on these keywords , one can refine the search and drill down in the temporal dimension towards a more focused subset of blog posts . The final step is to identify where it is interesting . BlogScope associates with each blog its geographical coordinates . This information is used to annotate the world map with regions where bloggers are writing about the searched query . Figure 1 and 2 provide example screenshots from BlogScope demonstrating various features . It must be noted that all the analysis is performed on the actual textual content of blog posts , and not on tags because : ( 1 ) tagging requires manual effort , ( 2 ) most blogs posts are not tagged , and ( 3 ) a few tags can not accurately capture complete information present in a post . Popularity and Bursts : The popularity curve for a keyword ( or set of keywords ) displays how often the specified keywords are mentioned in the Blogosphere as a function to time . Such a curve
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1269 ( a )
( b )
( c )
Figure 2 : ( a ) Popularity curve for the keywords saddam hussein . Saddam was convicted on November 5 2006 , and was executed on December 30 2006 . Regions marked in red indicate bursts . ( b ) Hot keywords cloud tag for July 30 2006 . ( c ) Correlations for keyword earthquake for December 27 2006 , soon after an undersea earthquake in taiwan resulting in disruption of internet services . and its fluctuation can provide insight regarding the keyword popularity evolution over time . An unexpected increase in the popularity of a keyword indicates the occurrence of an event . Such events are captured by BlogScope as keyword bursts , and are marked in red on the popularity curve . The popularity of different keywords can be compared for analysis purposes . Correlations : Information in the Blogosphere is highly dynamic in nature . As topics evolve , keywords align together to form stories ; and as topics recede , these keyword clusters dissolve . This formation and dissolution of clusters of keywords is captured by BlogScope in the form of correlations . With every search , a list of keywords in blog posts most closely related to the search query keywords is displayed . Roughly speaking , such keywords are those that most frequently co occur with the searched query terms ( weighted by their idf ) . They aim to provide insight regarding the posts relevant to the searched queries . Geo Search : With every post indexed by BlogScope , a city , state and country is maintained . This is done by extracting location string from author profiles , and utilizing approximate match technology ( eg [ 2 ] ) against lists of known cities . As a result , BlogScope can display the distribution of the posts on a map , or restrict the search to select regions of the world . Hot Keywords : On its front page BlogScope displays a list of hot keywords for that day in the form of a cloud tag . BlogScope uses a measure of ‘interestingness’ for keywords and ranks all keywords for a day according to this measure . Interesting does not necessarily refer to popular . For example , keywords that exhibit sudden change in their popularities are more interesting . In a few occasions , Blogscope tracked popular keywords that corresponded to events that have not made mainstream news media . For example the term math was highly popular on the week of August 7 2006 in the Blogosphere as reported by BlogScope . The event corresponded to the news about the Poincare conjecture proof by Grigory Perelman . New York Times had an article on this on August 15 2006 . Burst Synopsis : In order to aid information discovery , BlogScope incorporates features that aim to explain events related to a search In particular once a burst is identified for a query string , query . BlogScope can generate a synopsis set for it . The semantics associated with the burst synopsis set for a query q is that it is the maximal set of keywords correlated with q that exhibit a bursty behavior in the associated popularity curves . For example , consider the query saddam on December 30 2006 ( the day when he was executed ) . BlogScope generates the set saddam , hussein , hanging , execution , dictator , iraq , brutal as its burst synopsis , which includes all keywords that exhibit a burst on the selected day in connection to the query , serving as a description of the event .
3 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We presented BlogScope , a text analysis system suitable for temporally ordered streaming text , currently applied to the analysis of the Blogosphere . At the time of this writing , it was tracking over 4.5 million blogs with around 40 million posts in its database . Everyday around 100 thousand new posts are added to the system . It is extremely important , given the analysis the system conducts , for the techniques employed to be computationally efficient in order to scale at this level . We have therefore developed effective and efficient algorithms for burst identification , discovering correlated terms , mining hot keywords , and burst synopsis generation . Figure 3 presents the overall architecture of the system highlighting its main components . We plan to continue enhancing BlogScope with several features to improve navigation , information discovery and performance . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Gruhl , R . V . Guha , R . Kumar , J . Novak , and A . Tomkins . The [ 2 ] A . Chandel , O . Hassanzadeh , N . Koudas , M . Sadoghi , and
Figure 3 : High level system architecture of BlogScope . predictive power of online chatter . In SIGKDD . ACM , 2005 . D . Srivastava Benchmarking Declarative Approximate Selection Predicates In SIGMOD , 2007 . http://wwwsifrycom/alerts/archives/000436html
[ 3 ] State of the Blogosphere aug 2006 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1270
