Classifying Web Sites
Christoph Lindemann and Lars Littig
University of Leipzig
Department of Computer Science
Johannisgasse 26
04103 Leipzig , Germany http://rvsinformatikuni leipzigde
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a novel method for the classification of Web sites . This method exploits both structure and content of Web sites in order to discern their functionality . It allows for distinguishing between eight of the most relevant functional classes of Web sites . We show that a pre classification of Web sites utilizing structural properties considerably improves a subsequent textual classification with standard techniques . We evaluate this approach on a dataset comprising more than 16,000 Web sites with about 20 million crawled and 100 million known Web pages . Our approach achieves an accuracy of 92 % for the coarse grained classification of these Web sites .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – information filtering , selection process ; H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications – data mining .
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement .
Keywords : web measurement site classification , web mining , web
1 . INTRODUCTION Due to the tremendous size of the World Wide Web , it is more and more difficult to identify Web sites providing the information and services of interest . Therefore , the ability to discern the functionality of a Web site clearly improves the capability of search engines to present high quality search results . Eg Yahoo! Mindset [ 4 ] , which is still in research status , distinguishes between search results from Web sites of two functional classes . This allows for an adaptive ranking by favoring those results that correspond to the intent behind the search . Further opportunities that arise from coarse grained classification of Web sites include personalized ranking and site tagging .
Research on the classification of Web sites aims at discovering useful knowledge for establishing structure in the Web . It can be divided into two sub areas that differ in the purpose and granularity of classification . Coarse grained classification seeks to discern the functionality of a Web site in order to improve the quality and ranking of search results , eg [ 1 ] , [ 3 ] . Fine grained classification deals with the automated categorization of Web sites in order to build Web directories , eg [ 2 ] .
Following this motivation , we present an approach for the coarsegrained classification of Web sites . This approach exploits
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8 12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . structure and content of Web sites in order to classify them into one of the eight most relevant functional classes , namely Academic , Blog , Community , Corporate , Information , Nonprofit , Personal , and Shop As major contribution , we derive a rich set of features from the structure of a Web site and show that utilizing them for a pre classification of Web sites into sets of aggregated classes enhances a subsequent classification by content .
2 . FEATURES FOR CLASSIFICATION Deriving features for the classification of Web sites from a Web crawl is a process of knowledge discovery from data . Due to the heterogeneity of the Web and its lack of structure , it is crucial to identify properties of a Web site that best reflect its functionality . Therefore , we deal with the identification of properties that describe the structure of a Web site with respect to several aspects . In particular , we focus on size , organization , URL composition , technical realization , and link structure .
Overall , we identify 30 properties that reflect the functionality of a Web site so that they can be used as features for classification . We compute the information gain of each single feature , which describes its ability to distinguish between Web sites of the considered functional classes . Table 1 lists the feature with the highest information gain ( IG ) for the five different types of features . We exploit the link structure by considering the average external site outdegree , which describes the average number of links to different external Web sites . Furthermore , we analyze the size of a Web site in terms of page count , ie number of known pages . Regarding the organization of a Web site , the fraction of PDF and PS documents is the feature with the highest information gain . The fraction of pages per Web site that contain javascript is a feature that focuses on the technical realization of Web sites . Finally , features describing the general composition of the URLs of a Web site include the average number of digits within the URL path . In addition to this , Table 1 shows that some features can be derived from known pages . Since it is much more expensive to download a remote Web page than to perform inmemory classification operations [ 2 ] , the ability to derive structural properties from non crawled pages is a big advantage .
We further delve into the relation between structure and functionality by visualizing the differences between Web sites of different functional classes with box and whisker plots as exemplarily shown in Figure 1 and 2 . We observe from Figure 1 that the largest Web sites belong to the classes Academic and Information as 50 % of these Web sites have more than 10,000 pages . Figure 2 displays the maximum level of the page tree , which is a feature of type organization . Here , the classes Academic and Information stand out again since they possess the
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1143 Table 1 . Features derived from structure of Web sites
Feature
Type
Derived
IG average external site outdegree link struct . crawled number of known pages size known fraction of PDF/PS documents organization known fraction of pages with javascript technical crawled average number of digits in path URL known
0.54
0.36
0.34
0.31
0.29 deepest page tree . Furthermore , we observe a relation between the classes Academic and Information , Blog , Community , and Shop , and between the classes Corporate , Nonprofit , and Personal from both figures .
These relations fuel the necessity to explore further features for classification . Therefore , we aim at deriving features from the content of Web sites by creating a domain specific dictionary ( DSD ) for each functional class . A DSD contains the most representative terms of a domain specific corpus compared to a general corpus . The domain specific terms within the DSD stand out as prominent features .
3 . CLASSIFICATION OF WEB SITES We evaluate the effectiveness of all considered approaches for classification on a dataset comprising 16,256 Web sites selected from publicly available Web directories for each of the eight functional classes . Crawling this dataset yields 20,731,273 crawled and 100,321,069 known pages . s e g a p n w o n k # l e v e l m u m i x a m
100000
10000
1000
100
10
1
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
In order to compare the accuracy of classification by structure and by content , we first employ a naive Bayesian classifier . Prior to classification , we perform data preprocessing which involves unsupervised data discretization , data transformation , and feature subset selection . The results of classification are evaluated by employing 10 fold cross validation . We observe the classification by structure achieves a micro averaged F1 score of 70 % . Thus , structural properties are appropriate as features for classification but the achievable classification accuracy is limited due to the relation between some functional classes as mentioned before . This observation is further approved by the confusion matrix which limitations . As a consequence , we aggregate the related classes into three sets . The classification of Web sites into these sets of functional classes results in a high F1 score of 94 % . is omitted due that to space
We apply a standard technique for matching unknown text against our DSDs to classify Web sites by their content . Since the created DSDs are very descriptive for the functional classes , we achieve a micro averaged F1 score of 84 % . However , we observe that there are difficulties in correctly classifying Web sites of the functional classes Blog , Community , Information , and Personal as highlighted by a F1 score of at most 72 % .
Considering the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches we conclude that classification by structure suffers from Web sites that possess a similar structure although being created for different purposes . Classification by content is affected by Web sites of some functional classes which cover a very broad spectrum of these disadvantages by at first concentrating on the three sets of aggregated classes . Subsequently , this preclassification are used to enhance the classification by content . topics . Our novel approach overcomes the results of
Academic
Blog
Community
Corporate
Information
Nonprofit
Personal
Shop class
Figure 1 . Number of known pages
Academic
Blog
Community
Corporate
Information
Nonprofit
Personal
Shop class
Figure 2 . Maximum level of page tree
In particular , if the classification by content does not result in a clear decision for one class , ie the highest probability is below 0.75 , or if one of the problem classes is predicted , the final decision is based upon the combined votes of both classifiers . This approach yields a micro averaged F1 score of 92 % . Thus , the achievements of classification solely based on structure or content are clearly surpassed .
4 . CONCLUSIONS We presented a novel approach the coarse grained classification of Web sites . This approach utilized 30 structural properties for a pre classification of Web sites into three aggregated classes that considerably improved a subsequent classification by content using standard techniques . for
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] E . Amitay , D . Carmel , A . Darlow , R . Lempel , and A . Soffer ,
The Connectivity Sonar : Detecting Site Functionality by Structural Patterns , Proc . 14th Conf . on Hypertext and Hypermedia , Nottingham , United Kingdom , 2003 .
[ 2 ] M . Ester , H P Kriegel , and M . Schubert , Web Site Mining : A New Way to Spot Competitors , Customers and Suppliers in the World Wide Web , Proc . 8th Int . Conf . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Edmonton , Canada , 2002 .
[ 3 ] C . Lindemann and L . Littig , Coarse grained Classification of
Web Sites by Their Structural Properties , Proc . 8th Int . Workshop on Web Information and Data Management , Arlington , VA , 2006
[ 4 ] Yahoo! Mindset , http://mindsetresearchyahoocom
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1144
