A Browser for a Public Domain SpeechWeb
R . A . Frost
X . Ma
Y . Shi
School of Computer Science
University of Windsor
Windsor , Ontario , Canada 1 519 2534232 ext 2990
School of Computer Science
University of Windsor
Windsor , Ontario , Canada 1 519 2534232 ext 2990
School of Computer Science
University of Windsor
Windsor , Ontario , Canada 1 519 2534232 ext 2990 rfrost@cogeco.ca
ABSTRACT A SpeechWeb is a collection of hyperlinked applications , which are accessed remotely by speech browsers running on end user devices . Links are activated through spoken commands . Despite the fact that protocols and technologies for creating and deploying speech applications have been readily available for several years , we have not seen the development of a PublicDomain SpeechWeb . In this paper , we show how freely available software and commonly used communication protocols can be used to change this situation .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Hypertext/Hypermedia ] : Architectures , H52 [ User Interfaces ] : Voice I/O .
General Terms Human Factors .
Keywords Public Domain SpeechWeb , X+V .
1 . INTRODUCTION The web has hundreds of millions of users . However , for many people , and in many circumstances , the value of the web is limited owing to its dependence on vision . Frost [ 1 ] has argued that the conventional web should be augmented with a Public Domain SpeechWeb consisting of hyperlinked applications , that are designed specifically for natural language interaction , created and deployed by nonexpert as well as expert users , and which are accessible through readily available voice browsers . ( Hemphill and Thrift [ 3 ] made a similar argument over ten years ago but little has happened since then ) . As explanation for the lack of progress on the development of a Public Domain SpeechWeb , Frost et al [ 2 ] argue that commonly used speech applications are not conducive to such an endeavor . They propose an alternative : the LRRP architecture ( see next page ) , in which Local grammar based Recognition of speech is carried out by a voice browser on the user device , text translation is sent through the Internet for Remote Processing by an application residing on a conventional web server .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8 12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . architectures distributing for in the involvement of non expert users
Although Frost et al have demonstrated the viability of using the LRRP architecture ; they did not solve the problem of how to facilitate the development and use of a Public Domain SpeechWeb . In particular : 1 ) The prototype speech browsers , which they created , were based on proprietary software and could not be distributed . 2 ) The browsers required a substantial runtime environment on the local device . 3 ) Communication with remote applications involved non standard protocols . We have solved these problems by making use of the X+V voice markup language , in a novel way , as discussed in section 2 . We have created a small prototype speechweb which we discuss in section 3 , where we also explain how to access it . In section 4 we explain how others can create their own speechweb applications , deploy them on conventional servers , and access them using our X+V browser . We include the URL of a video demonstration and of an extended version of this paper . The major objective of this paper is to illustrate how easy it is to build a Public Domain SpeechWeb which can be accessed by freely available browsers , and which can be extended by adding applications created by people with little or no knowledge of speech recognition technology .
2 . AN X+V BROWSER X+V is a markup language , which combines XHTML with a subset of VXML , and which is intended to be used for creating multi modal hyperlinked applications [ 5 ] . Our use of X+V than implementing applications in X+V , we use a single X+V page as an interface ( browser ) into a set of remote hyperlinked speech applications , which can be written in any programming language . When our X+V browser is directed to a remote application , it begins by downloading a recognition grammar from that application ( which is used to tailor the local speech recognition engine ) . Spoken user input is converted to text and sent to the remote application , which processes it and returns a text response , which is output as synthesized voice . If the user asks to be connected to another application , the input is recognized as such by the current application , which returns the appropriate URL to the X+V browser . Due to the fact that current versions of the freely available multi modal web browser Opera [ 4 ] can be easily configured to incorporate the IBM speech recognition technology and execute X+V pages , our browser can be used by anyone who has installed Opera on their computer . little different . Rather is a
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1307 3 . A SMALL PROTOTYPE We have constructed a small example speechweb consisting of three hyperlinked applications : Monty and Judy can answer a few questions such as “ where do you live ? ” , “ how old are you ? etc . and link requests , such as “ can I talk to solarman ” . Solarman can answer around 160,000 questions such as : who discovered phobos ? did hall discover every moon ? which planet is orbited by nereid ? which planet is orbited by two moons ? how many moons were discovered by kuiper ?
Opera
X+V browser page grammar
Local Machine
Voice output
Text
Interpreter
X+V browser
Grammar files
Remote
Application
Text
CGI Protocol
Download
Voice input
Despite the differences in these applications , they are all hosted on the same web server , and are all accessible through our SpeechWeb browser using common communication protocols . 4 . HOW TO ACCESS OUR SPEECHWEB Begin by downloading Opera from wwwoperacom and then configure it for voice capability : click on “ Tools ” from the toolbar , and choose “ Preferences ” . Then open the folder “ Advanced ” . Choose “ Voice ” from the list on the left . Then check the “ Enable voice controlled browsing ” box near the top of the page . Choose “ male ” or “ female ” for speech recognition , then the “ scroll lock ” option for the key to press when talking . Choose the “ hold key while talking ” option . Now you can access our speechweb applications by directing Opera to the following URL : http://lunacsuwindsorca/~speechweb/ p_d_speechweb/monty/monty.xml or judyxml orsolarmanxml Our browser will open automatically in Opera . Hold down the Scroll Lock key while speaking into the microphone . Try these :
“ hello there ” “ what can I say ” “ where do you live ” “ can I talk to judy ” OR “ monty ” OR “ Solarman ”
For Solarman , try questions such as those in section 3 . You can interrupt the response by pressing the scroll key . A video demonstration of a session with our example speech web is accessible at : http://davincinewcsuwindsorca/~speechweb/moviemov
5 . HOW TO CREATE APPLICATIONS You need to create three files and put them into a web directory which supports the .cgi protocol : 1 ) You need a copy of our X+V browser , which can be obtained from the URL given in section 4 . 2 ) A grammar file should then be created defining the input language of your application . 3 ) The interpreter for your application can be created as any text in/text out program written in any language . A detailed description of our browser , and complete information on how to create your own voice applications , is available at : http://lunacsuwindsorca/~speechweb/ p_d_speechweb/speechweb_instructions.pdf 6 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors acknowledge the support of NSERC , the Natural Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada .
REFERENCES [ 1 ] Frost , R . A . ( 2005 ) A call for a public domain SpeechWeb .
Commun . ACM 48 , 11 , 45–49 .
[ 2 ] Frost , R . , Abdullah , N . , Bhatia , K . , Chitte , S . , Hanna , F . ,
Roy , M . , Shi , Y . , and Su , L . ( 2004 ) LRRP SpeechWebs . In Proceedings of the Conference on Communication Networks and Services Research , Fredericton , NB , Canada , May 19–21 . IEEE Computer Society , 91–98 .
[ 3 ] Hemphill , CT and Thrift , P . R . ( 1995 ) Surfing the Web by
Voice . Proceedings of the third ACM International Multimedia Conference ( San Francisco 1995 ) 215 – 222 .
[ 4 ] Opera : http://wwwoperacom/ [ 5 ] VoiceXML Forum ( 2004 ) http://wwwvoicexmlorg/specs/multimodal/x+v/12/
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1308
