Towards Environment Generated Media :
Object participation type Weblog in Home Sensor Network
Takuya Maekawa
NTT Communication Science
Laboratories maekawa@cslab . keclnttcojp
Yutaka Yanagisawa
NTT Communication Science
Takeshi Okadome
NTT Communication Science yutaka@cslabkeclnttcojp houmi@ideabrlnttcojp
Laboratories
Laboratories
ABSTRACT The environment generated media ( EGM ) are defined here as being generated from a massive amount of and/or incomprehensible environmental data by compressing them into averages or representative values and/or by converting them into such user friendly media as text , figures , charts , and animations . As an application of EGM , an objectparticipation type weblog is introduced , where anthropomorphic indoor objects with sensor nodes post weblog entries and comments about what happened to them in a sensor networked environment .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H4m [ Information Systems ] : INFORMATION SYSTEMS APPLICATIONS Miscellaneous
General Terms : Design
Keywords : Sensor network , Weblog
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The advances in sensor network systems that continuously produce a massive amount of data from environments cause a data flood that conceals useful pieces of information thus preventing us from noticing them . The use of sensor data from the environment requires us to cope with this data flood . It also requires to “ cook ” raw data generated from sensors attached to the environment because we cannot comprehend the environmental situation or the events in the environment solely from the raw data . This paper discusses a way of cooking raw sensor data and providing it effectively to users . We can divide users who enjoy the benefits of sensor networks into two types . One type have expert knowledge and deal with data obtained from factory and outdoor sensor networks . The other type have little expert knowledge and use information for daily life produced from a home sensor network . We particularly need to provide cooked data that can be understood by the latter type of user .
Massive amounts of data flood the WWW . We have two general ways to retrieve content from the WWW : active methods such as querying web search engines and semipassive methods such as automatically receiving RSS feeds from favorite web sites . With the semi passive approach , a user who has no clear query can receive a list of information that relates to the user and choose interesting items from the list . In the sensor network world , TinyDB [ 1 ] and [ 2 ]
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . achieve active sensor data browsing . By using the TinyDB , a user can query a sensor network in an SQL like language . [ 2 ] also presents an active browsing system that permits us to search events in the real world . The system can inform us of what has happened to indoor objects with sensor nodes for a natural language word set as a query . For example , when a user asks ‘when drop vase,’ the system replies with the time that the vase was dropped by analyzing sensor data obtained from a sensor node attached to the vase . A user who has no clear query , however , cannot enjoy the benefits of a system that collects data in sensor network .
This paper presents a semi passive sensor data browsing method that is analogous with web content browsing via RSS . To generate content for provision to users , the method extracts useful information from sensor data , compresses the data by calculating their representative values , and then converts them into user friendly media such as text and graphics . Using the method , this paper introduces new media that is automatically converted from massive amounts of environmental data in a user friendly format and which is called Environment Generated Media ( EGM ) . We also implement an object participation type weblog as an application example of EGM . In the application , sensor nodes are attached to various indoor objects including chairs and doors to detect their states and what happened to them . We aim to generate user friendly and enjoyable media by constructing a technology that permits anthropomorphic objects to post weblog entries about what happened to them . We select the weblog style that allows semi passive content browsing because users can then choose an interesting entry from an entry list in the RSS feeds produced from the weblog .
2 . ENVIRONMENT GENERATED MEDIA
Environment generated media are automatically converted , in a user friendly format , from raw environmental data that are huge and/or difficult to understand . A typical example of EGM is weather information obtained from meteorologic sensors in many countries and supplied on an electronic bulletin board . Although the study presented here uses a sensor network to obtain environmental data , a digest of long movies from security camera footage set up in non sensor network environments is also a kind of EGM .
That is , EGM is defined as user friendly media generated from massive amounts of and/or incomprehensible data by compressing them into averages or representative values and/or by converting them into text , figures , charts , and animations . ( By converting environmental data into text , figures , etc . , the data are sometimes compressed . ) Con
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Services1267 4.5 m
4.5 m m 5
.
4 m 8
.
1
( a )
( b )
Figure 1 : ( a ) Sensor node , ( b ) sensing room . verting environmental data into figures , charts , and animations facilitates knowledge discovery . The text representation ( words , phrases , or sentences in a natural language ) of knowledge discovered by a computer also permits us to use it effectively . EGM , implicitly or explicitly , specify such a data source as the location of a sensor producing the data or the type of a physical object if a sensor is attached to the object . Generating EGM enables end users to access environmental data easily .
In the future when indoor environmental data will be continuously generated , the semi passive browsing of EGM ( or the combined media of a lifelog and EGM ) will become a popular way for end users to browse environmental data .
3 . APPLICATION
First , we describe an implementation environment of the weblog application . In the environment , we attached sensor nodes equipped with an accelerometer , a thermometer , and an illuminometer to various objects including chairs , doors , and cups in a sensor networked room . Fig 1(a ) shows the sensor node used in the application . The sensor node collects and sends sensor data to a DB server every 60 milliseconds via wireless communication .
We implemented a sensor network system in an office as illustrated in Fig 1(b ) . To enable people to continue working , we included desks , chairs , and a table and installed many kinds of objects such as PCs . We installed four video cameras on the ceiling to record the room . We attached sensor nodes to various items of furniture such as doors , chairs , tables , cups , an alarm clock , books , locker doors , a drawer , and resealable pouches of tea leaves . The personified indoor objects post weblog entries and comments about what happened to them . They post ( 1 ) periodically or ( 2 ) when events occur . We can classify the events into three types : ( 2 a ) weblog posting by users , ( 2 b ) weblog posting by other objects , and ( 2 c ) occurrence of specific events affecting the objects themselves .
We prepared a total of 34 kinds of services ( postings ) .
Some representative examples are : Door If the times when a door is used is different from usual , the door issues a caution . ( 2 c ) Chair When a user posts an entry about his/her tiredness , a chair posts the total amount of time during which the user sat on it as a comment to the entry . ( 2 a ) Cup If a cup is dropped , the cup asks with concern whether it has broken or not . ( 2 a ) Locker and drawer A locker and a drawer report what objects are in them and post the object lists every week . ( 1 )
( a )
( b )
Figure 2 : Weblog application .
Resealable pouch of tea leaves When a user posts an entry about the loss of a pouch , the pouch reports its location and posts it . ( 2 b )
Fig 2(a ) shows a weblog entry , which denotes that a cup was dropped . It includes an animation GIF that was recorded when the cup was dropped . We detect the incident by finding an acceleration data segment where the values of the three axes are approximately zero . Fig 2(b ) shows a weblog entry posted by a user that denotes the loss of a tea pouch and a comment posted by the pouch . The comment includes an estimated location of the pouch and an animation GIF , which was recorded when the pouch last moved before the entry was posted . We infer that objects are in lockers and drawers by using illuminance co occurrence . When a locker is opened , the illuminance around the objects in the locker increases .
4 . CONCLUSION
This paper defined EGM , which are generated by conversion from a massive amount of environmental data . It also presented an object participation type weblog as an application example of EGM . As part of our future work , we plan to add various functions that will enable users to create interesting content by collaborating with objects .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Madden , M . J . Franklin , J . M . Hellerstein , and W . Hong ,
“ TinyDB : An acquisitional query processing system for sensor networks , ” ACM TODS , 30(1 ) , pp.122–173 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] T . Okadome , T . Hattori , K . Hiramatsu and Y . Yanagisawa , “ A real world event search system in sensor network environments , ” Proc . Int’l Conf . on Mobile Data Management 2006 , 2006 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Services1268
