Building and Managing Personalized Semantic Portals
Electronics and Computer Science , University of
Southampton , SO17 1BJ , United Kingdom
Electronics and Computer Science , University of
Southampton , SO17 1BJ , United Kingdom
Melike Şah
+44 ( 0 ) 23 8059 7688 ms305r@ecssotonacuk
Wendy Hall
+44 ( 0 ) 23 8059 3255 wh@ecssotonacuk
ABSTRACT This paper presents a semantic portal , SEMPort , which provides better user support with personalized views , semantic navigation , ontology based search and three different kinds of semantic hyperlinks . Distributed content editing and provision is supplied for the maintenance of the contents in real time . As a case study , SEMPort is tested on the Course Modules Web Page ( CMWP ) of the School of Electronics and Computer Science ( ECS ) .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Retrieval models
General Terms Design , Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords Semantic Web , Semantic Portal , Ontologies , Content Editing and Provision , Personalization
1 . INTRODUCTION The semantic portal refers to organized web sites that contain collections of semantically structured information . Ontologies are used for the structuring , accessing , sharing and presentation of the knowledge . The process of content provision in semantic portals is difficult , especially where content is continuously changing . This problem has been studied by many semantic portals , such as OntoWeb [ 1 ] and ODESeW [ 2 ] . For instance , in OntoWeb , new added information can not be seen without restarting the server and in ODESeW , Web interface is difficult for the edition and the insertion of relationship values . In addition , search and navigation are commonly used access mechanisms in semantic portals . However , in most of the cases , navigation is not very effective ; the same page content and the same hyperlinks are shown to all users , and hyperlinks to similar pages are often not presented . To address these problems , we propose an ontology based semantic portal , SEMPort . We have developed an easy to use Web interface for inserting , updating and removing instances and their attributes in real time . In addition , ontology based user models are utilized to support personalized views . To improve the browsing facilities of users , we provide semantic navigation and ontology based search with semantic hyperlinks ( explicit , implicit and recommendation links ) to relevant pages . For the illustration of SEMPort , we use CMWP of ECS .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8 12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
2 . SEMPort ARCHITECTURE The backbone of the SEMPort architecture is a knowledge base ( KB ) , where the domain model ontologies/instances are stored ( Figure 1 ) . The KB is connected to the Protégé ontology editor [ 3 ] , which allows the update of ontologies/instances . We have also developed a Web front end , so that any number of ontology/instance files can be uploaded to the KB . SEMPort also supports content editing and provision through its Web interface . For inferencing , the Jena Rule based reasoner and OWL reasoner are utilized and the Jena API [ 4 ] is used for handling user and domain models . At the front end , SEMPort is a set of Java servlets , which query the KB over HTTP using SPARQL queries . In addition , SEMPort supports reusability ; ontologies , instances and rules can be easily changed .
Figure 1 . The Architecture of SEMPort
3 . A CASE STUDY OF SEMPort ON CMWP 3.1 Domain Ontologies The ECS CMWP consists of the list of modules , which are taught in the school . Each module has a list of topics that are covered by the module . To annotate CMWP , we used two existing ontologies ; a part of the ECS ontology [ 5 ] , which we call ECS_COURSE , and the ACM Computer Classification System ( CSS ) [ 6 ] . We used ECS_COURSE to manually annotate CMWP in OWL Lite , using Protégé . We also converted ACM CSS to RDF by Perl Scripts and used at the annotation of covered topics . 3.2 User Model 321 User Ontology To adapt to the different browsing needs of ECS CMWP users , we used a user ontology , which we call USER . USER describes different relationships between the user model and domain model concepts ; hasInterest , memberOf and hasDegree are some relationships that are used . For example , we use the hasInterest relationship to indicate the user ’s interest on ACM CSS topics . 322 User Profile In SEMPort , personalization starts when the user log on to the portal with their ECS IDs and passwords . In the introduction , we ask a few questions to ascertain the user ’s background and interests . Alternatively , users can extend their profiles with semantic bookmarks , eg users can indicate their interest in ACM CSS topics and can associate different weights ( low , medium ,
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1227 high ) . Then , the user profiles are converted to RDF using the USER ontology . Profiles are handled as temporary user models at run time and also stored to the client ’s computer as an RDF file . 3.3 Functionalities of SEMPort 331 Semantic Navigation & Ontology based Search Ontologies are used for the navigation as shown in Figure 3 , left pane . Users can access concept instances by clicking onto hyperlinks from the ontology hierarchy ; all instances and subinstances are queried from the KB and displayed in the right pane . When the user clicks on an instance from the right pane , a more detailed view is opened , which contains all attributes of the instance and semantic hyperlinks to relevant pages ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 . A view from semantic navigation the ontology hierarchy , a search form information access , ontology based search is To facilitate integrated to semantic navigation ( Figure 2 ) . When a concept is followed from is automatically generated ; all properties and inherited properties of the concept are listed . For relationship properties , all range values ( including inherited ) are filled into a drop down list , thus users can select valid relationship values easily . Users can also put constraints on numeric values ( i.e > , < ) . Then , the entered data is converted to SPARQL and results are interrogated from the KB . to relevant pages , explicit , links are provided . Explicit
332 Semantic Hyperlinks implicit and To guide users recommendation links reveal relationships to directly associated resources , such as relations defined by the ontology . Implicit links use explicitly defined rules to infer incomplete knowledge from the KB . Recommendation links also use rules to present interesting relations between different concepts and channel users to relevant pages ( Figure 2 ) .
333 Personalization based on User Ontology Personalization is achieved by modeling user profile as a set of concepts that has relationships to domain model concepts . First , a Web interface is developed for users to maintain their profiles . Second , SEMPort supports personalized navigation by performing semantic weighted ranking ; we use user ’s interests in ACM CSS topics ( bookmarks ) , provided weight by the user and semantics between ACM CSS for reordering the contents ( Figure 2 ) . Third , personalized homepages guide users to relevant pages . In Figure 3 , we illustrate examples of student ( left ) and teacher ( right ) homepages . Based on different user types , different contents and hyperlinks are shown . If the teacher is a module leader , a link is supplied to update the contents of the module .
Figure 3 . Personalized homepages ( left student , right teacher )
334 Content Editing/Provision on CMWP In order to keep information up to date on ECS CMWP , we have developed a distributed Web interface for content editing and provision by authorized users ( i.e module leaders ) . Authorized users can access instances from their personalized homepages and all attributes ( including superclasses ) are listed for update ; users can add , delete or change attributes from this interface . To simplify the insertion and update of relation instances , valid instance values ( including inherited ) are added into a drop down list ( Figure 4 , left ) , so users do not have to know the details of the system . Multiple values can be added to the same attribute and multiple attributes can be deleted at the same time . Changes are permanently saved to the KB and can be seen without restarting the server . Consistency checking is also performed and presented to prevent inconsistencies ( Figure 4 , right ) . in
Figure 4 . Web interface for content editing/provision 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper , we present a semantic portal , SEMPort , which provides an easy to use distributed Web interface for content editing/provision real time , also alleviating problems associated with navigation through personalized views , semantic hyperlinks , semantic navigation and ontology based search . For the future work , user studies are going to be conducted . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . Spyns , D . Oberle , R . Volz , J . Zheng , M . Jarrar , Y . Sure , R . Studer , R . Meersman , OntoWeb A Semantic Web Community Portal , PAKM2002 , LNCS ( 2569 ) 2002
[ 2 ] O . Corcho , A . Gomez Perez , A . Lopez Cima , V . LopezGarcia , M . Suarez Figueroa , ODESeW . Automatic Generation of Knowledge Portals for Intranets and Extranets , ISWC2003 , LNCS , ( 2870 ) 2003
[ 3 ] Protégé Ontology Editor , http://protegestanfordedu/ [ 4 ] Jena Semantic Web Framework , http://jenasourceforgenet/ [ 5 ] ECS Ontology , http://rdfecssotonacuk/ontology/ecs [ 6 ] ACM CSS , http://wwwacmorg/class/1998/ccs98txt
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1228
