Web4CE : Accessing Web based Applications on Consumer Devices
Walter Dees
Philips Research Laboratories
High Tech Campus 31
Eindhoven , The Netherlands
Telnr : +31 40 2745438
Paul Shrubsole
Philips Research Laboratories
High Tech Campus 31
Eindhoven , The Netherlands
Telnr : +31 40 2742102 walterdees@philipscom paulshrubsole@philipscom
ABSTRACT In a world where all devices will be interconnected , the boundaries between the different devices will start to disappear . Devices will be able to access each other ’s applications ; sessions can be suspended on one device and resumed on another device ; devices can serve as each other ’s input and output device , and all devices will be able to connect to the Internet . This will give true mobility to the user as he/she will not be restricted to the time and location where he/she accesses an application . Of course , we need a variety of different mechanisms and technologies to enable this , such as : Remote rendering of UIs on other devices in the network . Mechanisms to exchange capability information between
Infrastructure for discovering client and servers in a network . devices , and to adapt the UI based on these capabilities .
Mechanisms to deal with session migration . Support for a wide range of consumer devices , ranging from mobile phones to high end TVs .
This requires technologies that cross different domains , ie the PC domain , mobile domain , and TV domain . Several major companies within these different domains have decided to work together on these issues . One of the results is a framework for remote user interfaces for both UPnP™ networks and the Internet . This framework is called Web4CE ( aka CEA 2014 ) [ 1 ] , and has been accepted as the baseline remote user interface technology within the Digital Living Network Alliance ( DLNA ) [ 2 ] , which is a large industry wide effort for creating true interoperability between network enabled devices . This paper provides a short overview of the Web4CE framework , and some of the use cases that it enables .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Systems ] : Online Information Services , and Presentation ] : H51/H52 Multimedia Information Systems/User Interfaces .
[ Information
Interfaces
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Human Factors , Languages , Standardization
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Keywords Web4CE , CE HTML , Pervasive Web Applications , Consumer Electronics Devices , AJAX , Web 2.0 , Embedded Browsers , Mobile and TV based services , W3C , DLNA , CEA , UPnP™ .
1 . INTRODUCTION Despite the fact that the web and other networking technologies have become increasingly pervasive , we still have a long way to go before all devices will truly interoperate and cross the boundaries of different domains , be it the PC , mobile , and TV domain and/or the in home networking domain and the Internet . Since most technologies are focused on a single domain , current networking technologies are insufficient to provide interesting user scenarios such as the one depicted in Figure 1 , whereby a mobile phone is used to connect to Google Maps to plan a route , but since there is a big screen TV in the vicinity , the TV is used as output ( with the user input provided on the mobile phone ) :
Figure 1 . Using mobile phone to show UI on big screen TV . The Web4CE framework [ 1 ] is a first step towards a unified framework that enables such use cases . The next section describes the main features of Web4CE in more detail .
2 . FEATURES OF WEB4CE The Web4CE framework ( as depicted in figure 2 ) adopts a number of technologies for both in home and the Internet that span multiple domains . These technologies are : XHTML , DOM level 2 , CSS TV Profile [ 3 ] ( which is a superset of the CSS Mobile Profile ) and UPnP™ [ 4 ] . It also supports AJAX ( ie XMLHttpRequest ) [ 5 ] to support the latest web applications , such as GoogleMaps , and to enhance interactive applications such as Electronic Program Guides ( EPG ) . The collection of technologies to describe the user interface ( ie XHTML , CSS TV profile , AJAX , etc ) is called CEHTML .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Systems1303 2.3 Two way communication Two way communication between a client and a server is an important requirement for interactive consumer services . The currently de facto XMLHttpRequest mechanism [ 5 ] can be used in most cases . However , use cases , such as the one denoted in Figure 1 , require key events and/or page updates to be forwarded to the client in a timely manner , without introducing significant delays ( which may be introduced when using ‘polling based’ methods , such as XMLHttpRequest ) . Therefore , we introduce the so called “ NotifSocket ” scripting object , which can be used for setting up a TCP/IP connection between a client and a server through Javascript and to send/receive data over this connection . Another mechanism we third party notifications . These allow a server to send notification messages to interested clients at any moment in time , outside of an active session between the client and the server . This is useful for example to send a caller ID notification to a TV when a phone call or a text message has been received on your mobile phone . is so called introduce
2.4 Session Migration In order for a user to move a session from one device to another ( eg when starting a session on a mobile phone , and moving the session to the TV ) , a session migration mechanism is needed . Web4CE supports this using a mechanism called save restore that uses a Javascript API for storing the current client side state of the UI ( eg cookies , important Javascript variables ) on a server in the network , which can then be resumed on another client ( or the same client ) at a later time . 2.5 A/V integration Access to A/V content is a very important use case for consumer electronics devices . Since current standards are lacking in this area , Web4CE defines several mechanisms to fully integrate A/V to be part of a web page . It allows for example alpha blending and overlaying parts of the UI on top of video , controlling the playback of an A/V stream , and controlling the size of the video window . It also allows the A/V to persist across different pages . 3 . CONCLUSIONS Accessing web based applications served by devices in the home and on the Internet on a variety of different CE devices has a lot of interesting opportunities . The Web4CE framework ( which is supported by important industry consortia such as DLNA and CEA ) has all the mechanisms and ingredients in place to achieve this , and provides a sound technical foundation to build upon .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] CEA , ANSI/CEA 2014 Web based Protocol and Framework for Remote User Interfaces on UPnP™ Networks and the Internet ( Web4CE ) , June 2006 , http://wwwceorg/standards /StandardDetails.aspx?Id=2865&number=CEA 2014 [ 2 ] Digital Living Network Alliance , http://wwwdlnaorg/ [ 3 ] W3C , CSS TV Profile 1.0 , May 2003 , http://wwww3org/TR/css tv
[ 4 ] UPnP™ Forum , http://wwwupnporg/ [ 5 ] McLellan D . , Very Dynamic Web Interfaces , http://www . xmlcom/pub/a/2005/02/09/xml http requesthtml
Figure 2 . The Web4CE Framework
Several extensions are needed on top of these existing standards to fully support use cases such as the one depicted in Figure 1 . The following subsections describe some of these extensions . 2.1 Capability exchange In order to deal with a wide variety of CE devices , ie ranging from TVs to mobile phones , a mechanism is needed for exchanging UI and A/V capabilities . This mechanism allows a server to adapt the UI to the capabilities of a client device . In case of Web4CE , also resource constrained devices ( eg a mobile phone ) may act as a server . Existing technologies such as CC/PP are too demanding for resource constrained server devices . Therefore , Web4CE defines a lightweight capability exchange mechanism , which is based around a few base abstract profiles :
“ SD_UIPROF ” ( ie default profile ) , which describes clients with a 640x480 screen , a base set of keys and fonts that are readable for different screen sizes and viewing distances . “ HD_UIPROF ” , which is used for 1280x720 displays . “ MD_UIPROF ” , which is used for lower end devices with at least a 208x208 display , with 4096 colors and fewer keys .
Web4CE defines an XML language to describe extensions on top of these profiles . Servers may take these extensions into account for adapting the UI . However , since these are strictly extensions to a basic profile , capability matching can in principle be done by simple string matching on the profile name , since it is the profile that determines if the client is able to render the UI correctly . Web4CE also defines a mechanism for a server to list the capabilities that it requires to correctly render the UI . This allows clients to filter out compatible UIs before a connection is made . 2.2 Remote control / TV based interaction An important part of the Web4CE framework is to provide support for showing applications on a TV , and to interact with these applications by using a remote control ( incl . text entry and focus navigation ) . Since current standards are lacking in this area , Web4CE defines the necessary extensions to handle remote control keys , and introduces eg a tag ( called the <op> tag ) that allows key codes to be mapped on the physical labels used on the remote control ( or device , such as mobile phone ) . This allows authors to give feed forward information , eg “ Press <op code= ” VK_ENTER ” > to continue ” , without having to worry which physical label the device actually uses ( eg “ RETURN ” , “ OK ” , “ SELECT ” , or another representation of the VK_ENTER key ) .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Systems1304
