Determining the User Intent of Web Search Engine Queries
Bernard J . Jansen , Danielle L . Booth
College of Information Sciences and Technology
The Pennsylvania State University University Park , PA , 16801 , USA jjansen@acm.org , dlb5000@psu.edu
Amanda Spink
Faculty of Information Technology
Queensland University of Technology
Gardens Point Campus , 2 George St , GPO Box 2434
Brisbane QLD 4001 Australia ahspink@quteduau following are our research objectives : classifications with defining characteristics . We implement this operationalized classification in an application that automatically classifies queries from a search engine transaction log . We discuss how this model can be used to improve Web search engines . 2 . RELATED STUDIES Discovering the intent of Web searchers is a growing research area . Some of the most initial work is from Broder [ 2 ] and Rose and Levinson [ 7 ] . Lee , Liu , and Cho [ 6 ] attempted automated classification , comparing only informational and navigational in order to simplify the problem . Baeza Yates , Benavides , and Gonz´alez Caro [ 1 ] use supervised and unsupervised learning to informational , not classify 6,042 Web queries as either informational , or ambiguous . From a review of existing literature , efforts at classification of Web queries have usually involved small quantities of queries manually classified . There has been little effort on automated classification of queries for user intent . It is these issues that motivate our research . A comprehensive evaluation of a substantial set of Web searching queries will significantly enhance understanding user intent in Web searching . 3 . RESEARCH OBJECTIVES The isolate characteristics of informational , navigational , and transactional for Web searching queries by identifying characteristics of each query type that will lead to real world classification . ( 2 ) Validate the taxonomy by automatically classifying a large set of queries from a Web search engine . 4 . RESEARCH DESIGN For research question one , we qualitatively analyzed samples of queries from seven Web search engine transaction logs [ 3 , 5 ] . in order to identify characteristics for each query category . For the analysis , we selected random samples of queries and manually ( information , classified navigational , and transactional ) as define in [ 2 ] . We then derived characteristics for each category that would serve to define the queries in that category . This was an iterative process with multiple selection – classification – characteristics refinement ” . To address implemented our characteristics in an algorithm ( ie , program ) , executed this program on a Web transaction log . The transaction log we used was from Dogpile.com ( http://wwwDogpilecom/)1 A complete statistical analysis of the Dogpile transaction log is presented in [ 4 ] .
1 We will make this log file available to the research community upon expiration of the NDA . Other search log files are available at http://istpsuedu/faculty_pages/jjansen/academic/transaction_logshtml rounds of “ query research question three categories them in one of two , we
( 1 ) three broad classifications of user
ABSTRACT Determining the user intent of Web searches is a difficult problem due to the sparse data available concerning the searcher . In this paper , we examine a method to determine the user intent underlying Web search engine queries . We qualitatively analyze samples of queries from seven transaction logs from three different Web search engines containing more than five million queries . From this analysis , we identified characteristics of user queries based on intent . The classifications of informational , navigational , and transactional represent the type of content destination the searcher desired as expressed by their query . We implemented our classification algorithm and automatically classified a separate Web search engine transaction log of over a million queries submitted by several hundred thousand users . Our findings show that more than 80 % of Web queries are informational in nature , with about 10 % each being navigational and transactional . In order to validate the accuracy of our algorithm , we manually coded 400 queries and compared the classification to the results from our algorithm . This comparison showed that our automatic classification has an accuracy of 74 % . Of the remaining 25 % of the queries , the user intent is generally vague or multi faceted , pointing to the need to for probabilistic classification . We illustrate how knowledge of searcher intent might be used to enhance future Web search engines . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ 1 ] Information Search and Retrieval – Search process General Terms Measurement , Experimentation , Human Factors Keywords User intent , Web queries , Web searching , search engines 1 . INTRODUCTION The Web has become an indispensable aspect in the lives of many people , and search engines are the main portal to the Web . Search engines are “ the tool ” for accessing the information , Internet sites , and services on the Web that many people use on a daily basis . Beyond their popularity , how are people using these Web search engines ? How can we determine what these people are seeking ? What task , goal , need , or intent are they trying to address with their Web searching ? Web search engines can help people find the resources they are looking for by more clearly identifying the searcher ’s intent behind the query . In this paper , we classify user searcher based on intent in terms of the type of content specified and operationalize these
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1149 5 . RESULTS For research question one , we derived the following characteristics for each category .
Navigational Searching
• queries containing company/business/organization/people names
• queries containing domains suffixes • queries with “ web ” as the source • queries length ( ie , number of terms in query ) less than 3 • searcher viewing the first search engine results page
Transactional Searching
• queries containing terms related to movies , songs , lyrics , recipes , images , humor , and porn
• queries with “ obtaining ” terms ( eg , lyrics , recipes , etc . ) • queries with “ download ” terms ( eg , download , software , etc . )
• queries relating to image , audio , or video collections • queries with “ audio ” , “ images ” , or “ video ” as the source • queries with “ entertainment ” terms ( pictures , games , etc . ) • queries with “ interact ” terms ( eg , buy , chat , etc . ) • queries with movies , songs , lyrics , images , and multimedia or compression file extensions ( jpeg , zip , etc . )
Informational Searching
• uses question words ( ie , “ ways to , ” “ how to , ” “ what is ” , etc . ) • queries with natural language terms • queries containing informational terms ( eg , list , playlist , etc . ) • queries that were beyond the first query submitted • queries where the searcher viewed multiple results pages • queries length ( ie , number of terms in a query ) greater than 2 • queries that do not meet criteria for navigational or transactional
Some navigational queries were quite easy to identify , especially those queries containing portions of URLs or even complete URLs . We also classified company and organizational names as navigation queries , assuming that the user intended to go to the Website of that company or organization . We also noted that most navigation queries were short in length and occurred at the beginning of the user session . Identification of transactional queries was primarily via term and content analysis , with identification of key terms related to transactional domains such as the entertainment and ecommerce . With relatively clear characteristics of navigational and transactional queries , information queries became the catch all by default . For research question two , we implemented our characteristics in a program . We then executed the program on the Dogpile search engine transaction log , with Table 1 presenting the results .
Table 1 . Results from Automatic Classification of Queries Classification Occurrences 1,228,427 Informational 155,628 Navigational Transactional 139,738 1,523,793
% 80.6 % 10.2 % 9.2 % 100.0 %
Table 1 shows that more than 80 % of Web queries were as informational in intent , with navigational and transactional queries each representing about 10 % of Web queries . These results indicate a higher level of informational queries than reported in prior work . Broder [ 2 ] used a random of queries separate from the session , and Rose and Levinson [ 7 ] used only the first query in each session . These differences in data sampling may be to the the underlying user content need will responsible for the discrepancies in percentages with our work , which uses all queries from the user sessions . 6 . CONCLUSION In order for Web search engines to continue to improve , they must leverage an increased knowledge of user behavior , especially efforts to understand the underlying intent of the searchers . The results of this research demonstrate the ability to implement of an approach for automatically classifying queries . Our approach does not depend on external content and can be implemented in real time . This makes it a viable solution for Web search engines to classify user intent based on the type of content desired . Additionally , larger data set provides more accurate percentages of user intent classification than smaller mostly manual studies . The higher percentage of information queries indicates that users view search engines primarily as information retrieval tools rather than instruments of navigation or commerce . A limitation of our study is that we assigned each query to one and only one category . We are aware that a query may have multiple intents . However , from result of our research to verify the accuracy of our approach , it appears that approximately 75 percent of queries can be classified into a single category of intent ( ie , informational , navigational , or transactional ) based on a manual coding of 400 queries . We are planning to investigate probability approaches such as naïve Bayes to arrive at a probability of classifying a query into one or more categories . Future work involves an both queries and sessions in order to identify more granular classifications of user intent ( ie sub categorizations of informational , navigations , and transactional ) . More targeted Web results increase performance of future Web search engines . ACKNOWLEDGMENT We would like to thank Infospace.com for providing the data for this analysis . The AFOSR and the NSF funded portions of this research . 7 . Reference [ 1 ] Baeza Yates , R . , Calder´on Benavides , L . and Gonz´alezCaro , C . 2006 . The Intention Behind Web Queries . In Proceedings of STRING PROCESSING AND INFORMATION RETRIEVAL ( SPIRE 2006 ) . Glasgow , Scotland , 98 109 . [ 2 ] Broder , A . 2002 . A Taxonomy of Web Search . SIGIR Forum . 36 , 2 , 3 10 . [ 3 ] Jansen , B . J . and Spink , A . 2005 . How are we searching the World Wide Web ? A comparison of nine search engine transaction logs . Information Processing & Management . 42 , 1 , 248 263 . [ 4 ] Jansen , B . J . , Spink , A . , Blakely , C . and Koshman , S . forthcoming . Web Searcher Interaction with the Dogpile.com Meta Search Engine . Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology . [ 5 ] Jansen , B . J . , Spink , A . and Saracevic , T . 2000 . Real Life , Real Users , and Real Needs : A Study and Analysis of User Queries on the Web . Information Processing & Management . 36 , 2 , 207227 . [ 6 ] Lee , U . , Liu , Z . and Cho , J . 2005 . Automatic Identification of User Goals in Web Search . In Proceedings of The World Wide Web Conference . Chiba , Japan , 391 401 . [ 7 ] Rose , D . E . and Levinson , D . 2004 . Understanding User Goals in Web Search . In Proceedings of the World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 2004 ) . New York , NY , USA , 13 19 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1150
