Connecting the ‘Bottom of the Pyramid’ – An Exploratory Case Study of India ’s Rural Communication Environment
Sarita Seshagiri
Aman Sagar
Dhaval Joshi
Motorola India Research Labs
6th Floor , No.60 , Plot no . 5
Bagmane Tech Park , CVR Nagar
Motorola India Research Labs
6th Floor , No.60 , Plot no . 5
Bagmane Tech Park , CVR Nagar
Motorola India Research Labs
6th Floor , No.60 , Plot no . 5
Bagmane Tech Park , CVR Nagar
Bangalore – 560 093 India
+91 80 2601 6509 in1767c@motorola.com
Bangalore – 560 093 India
+91 80 2601 6525 amsa@motorola.com
Bangalore – 560 093 India
+91 80 2601 6511 kpw346@motorola.com of aspect interesting purposes . Another
ABSTRACT This paper is based on our exploratory study of a South Indian village in Chamrajanagar district of Karnataka . The study was to understand the rural communication environment and villagers’ communication preferences . We examined people ’s lifestyle , working conditions and their communication eco system . Our study revealed that villagers , unlike urban inhabitants , interacted with people outside the village only for specific , rather than casual rural communication was the marginal use of the postal system and the ubiquitous use of pay phone , apart from word of mouth and faceto face interactions . In fact , personal ( face to face ) interaction was usually preferred among villages in this region , over other kinds of communication , despite infrastructural constraints like poor transport services . We also observed that communication frequency increased when status quo changed to one that required immediate attention . During the analysis we identified certain social , economic and cultural communication gaps ( or problems ) . However , these problems were clear opportunities to connect the unconnected rural users , by deploying new communication systems and features . Here , we have highlighted some of our findings and possible design avenues based on these findings . Categories and Subject Descriptors Rural Communication Environment , ICT for Development General Terms Contextual Communication , Communication Gap , Media Exposure and Consumption , Low Cost Connectivity , Resource Sharing , Design Avenues , Emerging Markets Keywords Communication , Postal System , Village Kiosks , Content , Localization , Infrastructure , Education , Group Dynamics , Social Interaction , User Studies 1 . BACKGROUND Our village study was geared towards learning the rural communication eco system and villagers’ social interaction
Enquiry ,
Rural
Urban
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . patterns . Through studies like ours , it would be possible to understand the needs of those , who are not yet effectively connected in the emerging market . This in turn can aid the development of communication devices , applications and services specifically for this segment . Access to information and communication is essential for unconnected villages . Chowdhary [ 4 ] enumerates certain reasons for this . He posits that ease of communication can enable villagers to undertake useful economic activities . It can also ensure direct access to the market for villagers ( who are primarily farmers ) to sell their agricultural produce on a large scale . Furthermore , easy access to communication technology can connect families in the village with their relatives , who have migrated to cities . Beyond such benefits in ‘connecting’ , unconnected villagers , there are several reasons why a study of the rural communication environment is necessary . Enabling easy access to technology for the grassroots is important , because it can be effective in addressing the needs of the socio economically disadvantaged sections of Indian society ( most of which are found in villages ) . However , needs cannot be addressed without conducting empirical studies to understand ground realities , according to Keniston [ 6 ] . Our study is one such effort . It attempts to capture the needs of rural poor , whilst highlighting their exposure to technology and communication devices . Many studies from the past have shown that understanding rural India ’s communication needs can help in accelerating the growth and development of villagers . According to Baijal [ 1 ] , rural users are as strong a consumer base for various consumer goods companies ( technology ) as the urban populace . This is because nearly 70 % of India is concentrated in villages . If these unconnected rural users were connected , it could help strengthen the national economy . In this regard , Baijal [ 1 ] asserts that India ’s mobile sector has a high potential for penetration , which is similar to the explosive growth in the telecommunication market . It is also held that villages have the required resources and capabilities , which can be further enhanced for development of this kind . But , this can only be verified by undertaking an exploratory study like ours , which can help reveal both trends and problems in the rural market . Studying facilitate gathering of data on the content rich flow of information , between rural and urban users . This is significant , because a large part of India ’s urban population migrates from rural areas through waves of urbanization , as Premi [ 11 ] points out . He further adds that rural communication environment can
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions855 focus on the nature of like ours , which rural migrants travel to cities that are geographically proximate . If this is so , it would be worthwhile to identify the cause and purpose of communication between rural migrants and their families in villages . Likewise , it would also be meaningful to examine information exchange among rural households . The present study addresses the latter . In his research on rural telephony , Bhatnagar [ 3 ] suggests that villages do not contribute to telecom revenue . Consequently , policy makers should consider other avenues of value addition . In this regard , he avers that internet kiosks , voice , e mails in local language and other services drawn from the internet are opportunity areas . But , are these indeed viable solutions for boosting rural communication ? This can be verified by empirical studies rural communication and people ’s needs therein . Others like Rajendran S [ 12 ] have highlighted supplementary means for addressing rural connectivity , like the Karnataka government ’s deployment of mini bus services ( MBS ) . He asserts that villagers’ use of MBS has reduced their connectivity problems . Apparently , school dropout rates have also reduced with this . Apart from MBS being used by school children , farmers also use it to transport their produce to distant urban centres and the local market . Despite the deployment of MBS in some regions , it still remains to be seen what infrastructural facilities exist in Karnataka ’s backward districts and how it has impacted rural lifestyle and communication . Our study in Chamrajanagar one of Karnataka ’s most economically backward districts is a step in this direction . Studies like ours are significant in the South Asian context , because this region along with Sub Saharan Africa has the lowest ranking in terms of number of computers , use of internet and telephone lines per thousand people ( Pohjola ) [ 10 ] . On the other hand , countries in North America , Western Europe , East Asia and Pacific rank much higher . conditions , social dynamics , people ’s
2 . THE VILLAGE STUDY Context influences communication . In other words , the content , purpose , frequency of communication , as well as the means and media of communication are influenced by contextual factors surrounding users . Such factors include the local economy , working cultural perceptions , infrastructural facilities , exposure to media and education . This was reaffirmed by our ethnographic study of a village in Chamrajanagar district in Karnataka . Villagers here , communicated with people outside the village , only to fulfill specific objectives . Moreover , the frequency of communication increased with change in social , economic and physical circumstances . These included organizing for special occasions ; inviting people for such occasions ; calling for medical assistance ; following up on one ’s medical status ; and finally keeping in touch with immediate family members outside the village . 2.1 Research Questions and Sample The study was geared towards answering certain fundamental research questions about communication in the village . These were as follows : a ) What is the typical lifestyle of people in a remote village ? b ) With whom do villagers communicate and why ? c ) How do they communicate with them ? d ) What is the content of communication ? e ) How often do they communicate ? f ) What are the problems faced whilst communicating or getting information across ? identifying key informants from within
To answer these questions , we conducted a field study with a purposive sample . This included 17 women , 7 men and 5 minor boys , ie 29 villagers in all . They were pointed out by our key respondents . Although the sample was skewed in terms of people that the key informants frequently interacted with , it was nonetheless , fairly representative . This is because our sample reflected the same socio economic characteristics as the village populace . Our sample included only Hindus and schedule caste ( lower social caste ) , daily wage farm workers . This was true of the village too . Similarly , our sample of respondents was semiliterate , economically backward and lacked mobile phones , television and personal transport , like others in the village . Finally , most of our women respondents undertook household activities and farm related work , like other women in this village . 2.2 Research Techniques For data collection in this study , empirical methods like silent observation and guided interviews with villagers were undertaken . Besides this , a pilot study was previously conducted on a smaller scale . Through this , it was possible to shortlist important activities ( undertaken by villagers ) for further investigation . The pilot study also enabled the community and establishing rapport with them . But , the most significant feature of this research was its eclectic approach . As members of a multidisciplinary research team , it was possible for us to engage in diverse observation techniques to discern quirks and patterns in respondents’ lifestyle and inter relations . The Grounded Theory approach was subsequently applied for data analysis . This included rapid ethnography method and ‘affinitizing’ ( David R . Millen , Holtzblatt and Bayer ) [ 2][7 ] . In other words , raw data was grouped together to generate hierarchy of themes . In this manner , data was abstracted to higher levels . Concepts and themes that emerged from this process of hierarchybuilding , enabled researchers to collectively generate ideas on possible connectivity applications and services . Themes were chosen by putting all post it notes ( containing field observations and respondents’ quotes ) then arranging them in piles , in terms of those notes that went together . Each pile or cluster was given a name , according to what best described all the items and contents under it ( Ryan and Bernard ) [ 13 ] . This name became a first level theme . Each cluster represented a basic theme related to social , economic , cultural , work related and domestic issues . Themes were built from raw data that occurred most frequently , or were critical to the occurrence of others , or because they varied from our own expectations . Subsequently , clusters with similar themes were placed together . In this way , the first level themes were given a higher or secondlevel title . After the second level hierarchy of themes was completed , a final theme was made . This was by identifying interrelationships between various higher level themes . Thus , a hierarchy of themes was generated from the data through first and second level themes . These higher level themes were together , and
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions856 further compared to identify how each theme related to the other . This was used for ( a ) answering basic research questions about the village communication environment ( content , purpose , means / media of communication ) ; ( b ) details of villagers’ socioeconomic background and socio cultural issues ; ( c ) instances of possible communication gaps faced by people . During this phase of data analysis , researchers’ insights were placed alongside the themes . These were brainstormed to generate likely design ideas for applications and services .
3 . STUDY FINDINGS This section contains our findings in terms of social , economic and cultural features of the village . It is based on silent observations and our open ended questions to village respondents , in individual and collective , guided interview settings . 3.1 Village Socio Economic Features and Communication The study revealed certain critical issues , which influenced communication and interaction among people within the village . These also had a bearing on their interaction with other villages and towns . Some of our observations in this regard are as follows . 311 Work life balance It was observed that all villagers , who were predominantly daily wage farmers , led hectic work lives . They had little time for leisure and other activities . This impacted their communication needs . Most people preferred to initiate communication events for specific reasons ( like social events or for business purposes ) , rather than for casual conversations . They did not undertake communication unless it directly influenced their everyday lives . Congruent with goal specific communication , the frequency of communication was also goal specific . It was driven by immediate social and economic circumstances of the villagers . Frequency increased if there was a change from status quo , like a sickness in the family ; or if one or more family members moved out of the village to a different geographical location ; or a social event occurred ; or for financial reasons like loans or sale of produce and other similar situations . Depending on the individual context , the frequency of calls through pay phone or personal visits was high at such times . It could be as many as daily or twice a week calls or personal visits , and as less as once a month . 312 Economic condition The economic condition of all villagers was either poor , or very poor . However , few households had somewhat surmounted penury . Alongside poverty , there also existed limited purchasing power . Consequently , mobile phones and landlines were not common in this village . They were transformed into shared devices . Yet , their use was not free . Specific amounts were charged for calls , which were dependent on call duration and whether calls were made to landlines or mobile phones . Charges for the former were lower than the latter . Such costs attached to making phone calls , determined the manner by which communication was initiated through phone calls . It was also dependent on villagers’ economic condition . People preferred to make calls through payphones , even when they had access to mobile phones . This was primarily because ; calling from payphones was cheaper than calling from a mobile phone . Similarly , they also chose to receive calls on payphones , unless they had access to mobile phones . In the latter case , calls would be received on the mobile , since calls could be received for free . 313 Education Level of formal and informal education ( ie having received education from school or being functionally literate ) influenced the means of communication used by villagers . Most villagers could not read or write . This led to the widespread use of payphones and limited use of the postal system . Limited literacy also caused people to share one newspaper in the entire village . Those that could read and write the local language read the newspaper and passed on information to others . Although this was a constraint , people appeared contented with it . But , news and information was also consumed through the alternate medium of television . In fact , there was a high dependence on television for information and entertainment . 314 Social dynamics Social dynamics in the village , greatly determined the use and access of communication or information devices . Men were perceived as decision makers , while women were seen as homemakers . In fact , men not only purchased devices , they also controlled most channels of mediated communication . Women depended on men for the use of devices like mobile phones , television sets , CD ( audio and video ) players and radios . This dependence caused women to have limited technology exposure . Hence , it was a communication gap . But , there was a positive side to this as well . Women equally shared the responsibility of initiating and receiving information through nonmediated communication ( ie personal and human interaction ) . 315 Media consumption and resource sharing Television was the prime source of entertainment for villagers as was mentioned earlier . Everyone preferred watching serials , movies and reality shows ( like ‘Crime Diary’ ) in Kannada , followed by news programmes every evening . People infrequently visited movie halls , due to the distance and their own hectic work lives . People also had access to a daily newspaper ( kept in the pay phone kiosk cum grocery shop ) , in which headlines and astrological forecasts were keenly read . Radio had limited popularity , although people heard live cricket commentaries on it . Despite such media consumption , not all village households owned televisions , mobile phones and CD players . Consequently , owners shared some of these resources especially television with friends . In fact , watching television shows together were social occasions for people . On the other hand , mobile phones were shared primarily with immediate family members . 316 Mobile phone usage and localized improvisation The availability and access of mobile phones was scarce , with 7 mobile phones for a village of 160 households . Consequently , they were shared among immediate family members and close friends . Although owners lent their phones to acquaintances within the village ( for emergency ) , it was considered a favour and had to be reciprocated in kind . As a result , mobile phones had restricted usage , as against pay phones that were used more often . A primary factor that guided mobile phone usage was cost . It caused villagers to use their phones sparingly . They made few
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions857 calls ( outgoing ) on their mobile phones and instead preferred receiving calls ( incoming ) . This was because call tariffs for incoming calls were cheaper than outgoing . The issue of call tariffs was effectively addressed by villagers and their grey market mobile phone , through the ‘Dual SIM’ ( refer to Figure 1 : A Dual SIM Card slot ) . The dual SIM is a nominallypriced ( ~ INR 100 and 150 ) , small circuit that enables a mobile phone to support two SIM cards simultaneously , without opening the battery cover . A dummy SIM card is connected to two empty SIM card slots , where two different SIM cards can be inserted . This dummy SIM goes into the mobile phone SIM card slot , such that when the user turns on his phone , one SIM card gets enabled . Upon restarting , the second SIM card gets enabled . The ‘Dual SIM’ was found to be useful for users , who wanted to switch between SIM cards for incoming and outgoing calls . They typically bought cards with the best plan and tariff rates – one that provided for cheap outgoing calls and the other for cheap ( usually free ) incoming calls . By alternating between SIM cards , people with limited economic means judiciously used their phones . The Dual SIM card slot is depicted in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : A Dual SIM Card slot follow up times , because
317 Special events Multiple means of communication were used by villagers during special events like weddings , birth and death ceremonies , festivals and other social gatherings . Although the payphone was preferred for communication at other times ; it was not used for such events . Social obligations within the rural community prevented use of telephones at such they were considered impersonal in nature . In fact , personal visits to each other ’s homes were undertaken as a necessary to mediated communication during social events . 318 Gaps In the course of our field visit , we observed many gaps in rural communication . Firstly , infrastructural facilities in the village were poor . People lacked efficient transport to commute to other villages and towns . This is because the state transport buses were erratic . Moreover , basic facilities like hospitals , post offices and banks were inaccessible . They were located in distant towns and cities , which made it difficult during emergencies . Apart from lack of access to basic services , there was also no option to the single pay phone in the village . Consequently , there were instances of villagers traveling to the city ( which was at least 20 kilometres away ) for using payphones .
Yet another issue was lack of exposure to media and technology ( specifically electronic gadgets and media information ) . Women ( as mentioned before ) could not operate the mobile phone and television on their own . They depended on men for this . However , the youth were more aware and proficient in operating mobile phones , television , CD players and radio . Problems in communication occurred , because the medium used was sometimes unacceptable . Although most communication occurred through phone , they were considered inadequate for extending social to people on special , shared occasions . They had to be followed up with personal visits . There were gaps in the economic domain too . It manifested itself as lack of awareness among daily wage farmers , who worked within Chamrajanagar . This was specifically with regard to the physical location and nature of their employment for the next season . Daily wage workers , who traveled to the city , also faced uncertainty and were unaware about employment opportunities . Even village farmers , who depended on middlemen to sell their produce in the cities and towns , lacked information on market rates and consumer demands . Thus far , the discussion has been on understanding how specific social and economic influenced communication . the means of communication used within the village will be highlighted . following section , the village , features of invitations
In the this village
3.2 Common and least used means of communication Communication within in Chamrajanagar was primarily through word of mouth and informal interactions . Since most villagers belonged to the same social and economic background , community ties among them were strong . These strong ties fostered social and personal communication in the form of verbal interaction ; personal visits to each other ’s homes ; participating collectively in social events ; and maintaining social bonds ( through informal chats and information exchange ) . There were few instances of economic communication too . This was specifically in the case of kiosk operators , village shop owners and anganwaadi workers , whose services / goods were bought by other villagers . Yet , verbal interaction , personal visits and informality were the preferred forms of communication . On the other hand , the nature of interaction differed , when people from the village studied by us , communicated with those in other villages . This is depicted in Figure 2 , where the thickness of arrows represents frequency of usage of communication means .
Figure 2 : Means of communication between villages
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions858 The nature of communication between the village that we studied and neighbouring villages was primarily social in nature . People visited or called up their friends and relatives , regularly . There were certain instances of economic interaction as well , when villagers went to sell or buy goods . Another form of interaction was by availing educational facilities ( since secondary schools were located only in villages outside the village we visited ) . All this determined the means used for communication among villages . Personal visits between villages were most frequent , as is depicted through a thick line in figure 2 . This was followed by communicating through the payphone . Instances of calling up each other through the mobile phone were fewer . Other means of communication like e mail , or the internet were not used . Even the postal system was seldom used , as the dotted line suggests . Unlike inter village communication , interaction between the village and city was largely economic with few instances of social interaction . This is depicted in Figure 3 , where the thickness of arrows represents frequency of usage of communication means , like in figure 2 . located and state
Figure 3 : Means of communication between village and city People from the village depended on the city , not only to sell their produce in the wholesale market , but also for employment opportunities . Apart from this , villagers also purchased goods and services that were absent in the village . Yet , personal visits to the city ( mostly Chamrajanagar ) were less frequent , as compared to visits to neighbouring villages . This was because cities were distantly transport services were poor . Therefore , most information was disseminated and received through pay phones ( depicted as a thick arrow ) , followed by mobile phone calls . As in the case of villages , e mail and other means of electronic communication were nil . On the other hand , postal communication existed and was higher than between villages . From the above discussion it can be inferred that payphones were the most popular and frequently used means of communication . This was especially so among villagers , who had family members in neighbouring towns and cities . In fact , these family members in towns , spent as much as INR 40 per month on payphone calls to their relatives in villages . Such calls from family members would be received by villagers , on the village payphone for free . However , our findings also revealed that people did not always use the local , village payphone , because they believed that the kiosk operator over charged them . He did not have a billing machine . Besides , the electronic display of call duration faced the kiosk owner and not the customers . This engendered significant erosion of trust among villagers , who also felt that the kiosk owner held a virtual monopoly over them .
In order to increase their options , villagers used payphones in neighbouring townships . Here , billing machines were functional . Nevertheless , the village kiosk operator was individually known to every village household . This meant that they could depend on him to deliver messages to them , from people who called in their absence . Thus , the relationship between the kiosk operator and villagers determined the use of the payphone to a large extent . Apart from payphones , people also used mobile phones , the postal system and undertook personal visits . Mobile phones were used as alternatives to the pay phone . Personal visits depended on geographical distance and were more common among villages , which were closer to each other than the city . The postal system was used largely to send and receive official information . The need for this was more between a village and a city , than within villages . Consequently , it existed in the former case .
4 . RELEVANCE OF FINDINGS WITH PUBLISHED LITERATURE Findings from this study have spawned several issues . These can be examined through similar research exercises in the future . But , they have also reaffirmed and qualified hypotheses of other researchers , who have worked in this field . According to Pohjola [ 10 ] , income levels and the cost of access to technology are critical to ICT ( Information and Communication Technology ) usage . Our study corroborated this . Villagers did not have easy access to technology and media like computers . It was beyond their means . However , televisions and mobile phones were present , albeit in limited numbers and as shared resources . Televisions were black and white , second hand sets , like mobile phones that were also second hand purchases . This was to cut costs . Thus consumption of technology and media depended on purchasing power and economic levels . Yet , Pohjola ’s [ 10 ] advice of raising people ’s education levels , cannot alone ensure acceptance of technology . It can only be done by providing ICT services and facilities that address people ’s socio economic needs . Such needs are learnt through studies like ours . From the field visit , we found that villagers needed information on market rates of farm produce ; employment opportunities in cities ; and daily wage work in neighbouring farm lands . Technology that disseminates such information can have better chances of widespread adoption than others . Similarly , our study shows that demand for ICT services has not increased due to income alone , as held by Pentland , Fletcher and Hasson [ 9 ] . They believe that rise in income and expenditure causes greater demand for newspapers , cable TV , telephone calls and mail . Our village study findings suggest that despite limited purchasing power , people felt the need to be connected outside the village through newspapers , telephone and the TV . The requirement for such services had increased primarily to maintain and strengthen family networks , uphold social obligations and retain contact with relatives and friends outside the village . Moreover , many people sold their farm produce to towns and cities and hence wanted to be connected ( by landlines , or mobile phones or the newspapers ) to urban centres . Pentland , Fletcher and Hasson [ 9 ] also highlight the phenomenon of resource sharing by people as the means for cutting costs . However , sharing does not occur across the community as they have supposed . We found that resources were shared openly among core group members , like family members or relatives and
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions859 less with others . This was despite the fact that both core and noncore members belonged to the larger village community . Thus , group dynamics determined resource sharing . Another factor that enables technology adoption is better infrastructure facilities , according to Bhatnagar and Pohjola . Our study corroborated this . Villagers could not avail of many facilities enjoyed by their urban counterparts , due to lack of easy access to basic services . Frequency of state transport buses was poor . Even medical facilities and schooling could only be availed from neighbouring villages . All this has greatly constrained villagers from utilizing the benefits of modern technology . Yet , they are likely to use them if basic services are made available , cost effectively . For eg medical services and education can be made to reach them through a low cost device / system . With such services being resolved , it is quite likely that they would be keener to avail of other benefits that technology can offer . Thus , the conclusion drawn by Indian Institute of Information Technology – Bangalore ( IIIT B ) , about poor infrastructural facilities hindering rural technology programmes is only partially true . Technology that is cognizant of infrastructural problems can indeed be deployed . Nevertheless , new services must be economical in order to be acceptable , as pointed out by Pentland , Fletcher and Hasson [ 9 ] . Villagers would be keen to use them , if they are not priced higher than presently available services . Our observations reaffirm this . Rural users did not want to own items beyond their means . Hence , solutions to address their technology needs should be inexpensive . Pohjola [ 10 ] also suggests that technology has to be local for easy adoption . Localization has two aspects as mentioned in the IIIT B report . These are linguistic localization and localizing the means of transmitting information . Our findings from the village confirm the former . Villagers , despite being semi literate or illiterate were familiar with the local language ( Kannada ) in the print , visual and sound medium . This television programmes , advertisements / posters or hoardings and notices ( including signage in public places ) . Even the small section of literate villagers had Kannada as the medium of instruction in schools . Although some knew a smattering of English , they were comfortable speaking , reading and writing in the local language . Besides , the mobile phone owners also preferred Kannada characters on their phones as menus and help tools . Apart from the ‘localization’ need , we also found that villagers seldom initiated a communication event for a casual conversation or meeting . It was usually for a specific objective . This is similar to what Bhatnagar observes , ie communications in rural India is mostly need based , rather than for leisure . But , Bhatnagar ’s subsequent inference that services dependent on the Internet , can alone address rural users’ needs , requires further verification . It is likely that villagers do not readily adapt to a mode of communication that they are unfamiliar with . One of the means for dissemination of communication services and increase in ICT penetration , according to Bhatnagar and IIITB ’s studies are kiosks . They suggest that kiosk operators as members of the local community understand local needs and are geared towards providing localized services . However , there are several factors to be considered before projecting the kiosk model as ideal . In the case of the village we studied , the pay phone kiosk owner was well respected . Yet , when long calls had to be made to distant cities and towns , people preferred to make it from newspapers , included
Chamrajanagar city , which was at least 20 kilometres away . This is because they felt that their village kiosk over charged them and held a monopoly . They wanted to increase their options and call from other places . Thus , the role of the kiosk operator and people ’s relations with him are critical factors to be considered . It is also suggested by IIIT B ’s studies that kiosks enable effective development of extant , rural infrastructure . Although this might be true , it is worth considering alternatives , like existing self help groups ( SHGs ) and rural , voluntary bodies that encourage people ’s participation . There were such promising , community action groups in the village we studied .
5 . RECOMMENDATIONS 5.1 Future design avenues Our findings in this study led us to consider future design avenues . These could serve as guidelines for addressing communication problems and lack of access to information among villagers in India . Firstly , to address employment needs of daily wage , village farmers , a solution could be provided . This could map all tracts of land within certain distance from the village . It could disseminate information regarding location / distance of farmlands ; of crops being grown in those plots ; and estimated time frames of work . Similarly , information ( through a push model ) can be provided on possible employment opportunities in the city , according to people ’s professions . It could even be a ‘channel’ on the phone that gives employment updates to village hopefuls . Secondly , the lack of access to secondary level education can be resolved through virtual classrooms . This could be through satellite like the recently launched ‘edu sat programmes’ in some parts of rural India . It might also be worthwhile to consider an application , whereby voice commands turn into text and are displayed on the screen of a device and vice versa . Villagers also mentioned that they could not determine whether their farm produce was in demand and would prove profitable . This can be resolved by providing regular updates , either through virtual connectivity to an online portal , or an asynchronous communication device . Information could be on the climatic condition in the region ; its likely impact on crops ; common diseases and how they can be tackled . Since farmers have sufficient , home grown knowledge regarding crops , they can share their experiences with others . Another problem was farmers’ lack of direct access to the market . Enabling virtual linking up with the market or buyers could help such farmers . With this , they can showcase their produce to buyers in neighbouring cities . The latter could quote a price for it . Negotiations and price fixing could also be done virtually . Apart from lack of connectivity , there also was constrained connectivity . There were some villagers , who had mobile phones and were thus ‘connected’ . Yet they had limited use for it . Lack of formal education made it difficult for them to send messages ; manage their address book and menu options . This could be resolved by providing a photo based phone book . Villagers could take a picture and put in a number , such that their phonebook does not display names and numbers but just the face . With most villagers making personal calls to check if their friends and relatives were doing well ; providing features like presence/
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions860 status indicators can be useful . These could be in the form of icons that one could set for happy , ok , unhappy and so on . By providing such status indicators , villagers could decide to call or take further action , upon checking the happy or sad icon / photo of their near and dear ones . There was also the issue of conforming to social mores , whilst extending invitations for special occasions . For this , villagers undertook multiple means of communication . They called up each other , using the phone and also personally visited each other . One way to resolve this is through a feature that simulates postal invitations . It could be like sending an animation of a fancy invitation . People could construct their own invitations from various parts or symbols of their choice . This would show up on the recipient ’s screen , open up gracefully and then display the message ( in colour ) . There could also be a feature that allows the message to be ‘spoken’ in the voice of the sender , when the recipient hits a button for it . Last but not the least , is harnessing the potential of SHGs or voluntary groups that existed in the village . They can be made responsible for operating public call offices and provide a useful alternative to the kiosk . This is because members of groups in the village exhibited a high level of sharing and trust . A technology solution could also be deployed to link up these SHGs to hospitals and doctors , in near by townships . In case of an emergency , these groups could inform medical authorities and provide a summary of the medical problem . With this , any medical relief that arrives in the village will also be capable of providing first aid here . This solution could assuage the lack of access to medical assistance in villages . rather
5.2 Things to consider Most recommendations suggested above , for addressing rural communication needs , point towards deployment of ICT , which is multi modal , than purely voice enabled . Such an arrangement takes into account , problems like non availability of the person being reached ; lack of acknowledgement for message received ; and high investment of time for initiating or ending a communication event . However , information needs of villagers will be inadequately addressed if devices and services replace traditional means like radios , newspapers and televisions . Therefore , extant information media should be complemented and not supplanted by new applications . Incremental deployment of these new systems will aid rural users to gain familiarity and eventually adopt them . Solutions should also take into account low levels of media exposure among people . Adaptation and acceptance could be easier if communication solutions consider present lifestyle , division of labour , daily schedule and other environmental factors of rural users . They should be cognizant of socio cultural dynamics of resource sharing in the village as well . These solutions should also not violate social factors like community norms , roles and beliefs . Connectivity should also translate into immediate monetary benefit for rural users . This is because with their limited economic means , they visualize the future only as short and medium term , incremental goals , which must be quickly realized . Consonant with this outlook of villagers , the means to connectivity should be affordable and have short gestation cycles .
Finally , the intent should be on getting rural users connected to townships and cities , which act like a hub for them . There is an increasing dependence by villages on cities for their economic existence . This was in our study revealed too . These are some recommendations based on our preliminary study . They are indicative in nature . Future research can reveal further needs of rural users . Understanding them is critical to sensitize technology developers , issues of the underlying connecting the unconnected in the emerging market . towards
6 . CONCLUSION Our study was a snapshot of the social , economic and cultural life of one village in Chamrajanagar district . It revealed how the village economy that was primarily agricultural was organized . In this context , it described the economic conditions and specific roles of daily wage earners , tenant farmers and landlords . Also examined , were the socio economic relationships that people shared with each other . It was found that despite their poor economic conditions , people lived as a close knit community in the village . Yet , group dynamics led to alienation of those , who were not members of the core group . This determined sharing of mobile phones and televisions , such that inner group members like family and close friends were given preference over others . Relationships and information exchange with others ( not from the core group ) was guided by trust , risk aversion and word of mouth . Exposure to media and technology among villagers was also examined . It was found that most adults in the village – especially women – could not operate devices like mobile phones , CD players , radios and television sets . On the other hand , the younger members of most rural households had some experience in handling these devices . In fact , they operated them on behalf of older family members . Notwithstanding such varying levels of technology exposure , most villagers preferred to watch television programmes every evening for leisure . Findings from the study also showed that people communicated with neighbouring villages , usually for social and personal matters . This included phone calls ( through local pay phone ) and personal visits . Interaction with cities and townships were mostly for economic reasons . These included sale or purchase of produce , as well as employment in the city . The most preferred means of communication were local pay phones and personal visits , although mobile phones were also used at times . Yet , all these means were used for specific communication . The study revealed many things about rural communication needs and its local environment . Still , there are many other issues that need further examining . Since this was a one time study on rural users , the next step could be a longitudinal or panel study of a village . Studies could be conducted during the harvest season , festivals illustrate how communication takes place during different time periods . One of its focus on communication only between villages . Further studies can comprehensively examine how communication occurs from a village to neighbouring villages and cities , and trace it back to the village . This could help understand urban rural communication better , than a sequestered study of the village like the present one . events . This will this study was the limitations of and social
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions861 in social levels of
Since our study addressed a single village in Karnataka , its conclusions cannot be generalized to India as a whole . However , it can be extrapolated to other villages with similar socioeconomic and demographic profiles the country . For widespread applicability at a national level , more villages at varying index , economic capital and infrastructural development should be studied , in a similar research endeavor . Finally , action oriented studies should be undertaken , whereby mobile devices for the village , are sponsored by the research team . These devices could be deployed within a village and its use could be monitored . Such an arrangement can help understand group dynamics and resource sharing in the village . Thus , more studies at the grassroots level are essential . The knowledge gained from them , would be invaluable for addressing the connectivity needs of people , who are at the bottom of the social , economic and technology pyramid .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Our thanks to Crysta J . Metcalf ( Senior Staff Research Scientist / Anthropologist , Motorola Labs , Schaumburg , USA ) for her invaluable inputs during data collection and analysis of this study .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Baijal , P . USO and Rural Connectivity : Not an Obligation but an Opportunity . Economic and Political Weekly , December 4 ( 2004 ) , 5201 5203 .
[ 2 ] Bayer , H and Holtzblatt , K . Contextual Design : Defining
Customer Centered Systems . Morgan Kauffman Publishers . San Francisco , CA . 1998 .
[ 3 ] Bhatnagar , S . Enhancing Telecom Access in Rural India :
Some Options . Paper presented at India Telecom Conference , Asia Pacific Research Centre ( Stanford University , November 2000 ) .
[ 4 ] Chowdhary , TH Rural Communications . Presented in IEEE
TENCON ( Bombay , 1989 ) , 808 – 810 .
[ 5 ] Glaser BG Conceptualization : On Theory and Theorizing
Using Grounded Theory . International Journal of Qualitative Methods , 1 ( 2 ) , Spring 2002 .
[ 6 ] Keniston , K . Grassroots ICT Projects in India : Some
Preliminary Hypotheses . ASCI Journal of Management , Volume 31 ( 1&2 ) . 2002 .
[ 7 ] Millen , DR Rapid Ethnography : Time Deepening Strategies for HCI Field Research . ( AT&T Labs – Research ) . New Jersey , 2000 .
[ 8 ] Pandit , NR The Creation of Theory : A Recent Application of the Grounded Theory Method . Qualitative Report , Volume 2 ( 4 ) , November 1996 .
[ 9 ] Pentland , A . Fletcher , R and Hasson , A . Dak Net : Rethinking
Connectivity in Developing Nations . Computer . IEEE Computer Society . January 2004 , ( 78 – 83 ) .
[ 10 ] Pohjola , M . The Adoption and Diffusion of ICT Across
Countries : Patterns and Determinants . The New Economy Handbook . Academic Press , 2003 .
[ 11 ] Premi , MK Migration to Cities in India in A reader in urban
Sociology ( eds ) MSA Rao , C . Bhat and LN Kadekar . Orient Longman . Hyderabad , 1991 . 99 141 .
[ 12 ] Rajendran , S . Minibus for Villages : Improving Rural
Connectivity . Economic and Political Weekly , August 30 ( 2003 ) , 3627 – 3629 .
[ 13 ] Ryan , GW and Bernard , RH Techniques to Identify
Themes . Field Methods , Volume 15 ( 1 ) , February 2003 .
[ 14 ] Information and Communications Technologies for
Development : A Comparative Analysis of Impacts and Costs from India by International Institute of Information Technology , Bangalore . A report for project funded by Department of Information Technology ( DIT ) ; Ministry of Communications and Information Technology , Government of India and Infosys Technologies , Bangalore . July 2005 .
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Communication in Developing Regions862
