Long Distance Wireless Mesh Network Planning :
Problem Formulation and Solution
Sayandeep Sen
Dept . of CSE , IIT Kanpur
Kanpur INDIA 208016 sdsen@iitkacin
ABSTRACT Several research efforts as well as deployments have chosen IEEE 802.11 as a low cost , long distance access technology to bridge the digital divide . In this paper , we consider the important issue of planning such networks to the minimize system cost . This is a non trivial task since it involves several sets of variables : the network topology , tower heights , antenna types to be used and their orientations , and radio transmit powers . The task is further complicated due to the presence of network performance constraints , and the inter dependence among the variables . Our first contribution in this paper is the formulation of this problem in terms of the variables , constraints and the optimization criterion . Our second contribution is in identifying the dependencies among the variables and breaking down the problem into four tractable sub parts . In this process , we extensively use domain knowledge to strike a balance between tractability and practicality .
We have evaluated the proposed algorithms using random input sets as well as real life instances with success . We have been able to show detailed planning of network topology , required tower heights , antenna types , and transmit powers for the Ashwini project , a long distance WiFi network under deployment in Andhra Pradesh , India , In this case , we are able to achieve within 2 % additional cost of a lower bound estimate .
Categories and Subject Descriptors C21 [ Network Architecture and Design ] : Wireless communication , Network Topology
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords 802.11 mesh networks , Long distance WiFi , Low cost networking , Rural Connectivity
1 .
INTRODUCTION
802.11 based long distance networks have been proposed as a cost effective option to provide Internet connectivity to rural areas in developing regions , to enable Information and Communication Technology ( ICT ) services [ 1 , 2 ] . Fig 1 depicts one such network : the current Ashwini project deployment [ 3 ] in Andhra Pradesh , India . Other such networks include the Digital Gangetic Plains Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Bhaskaran Raman Dept . of CSE , IIT Kanpur
Kanpur INDIA 208016 braman@iitkacin
( DGP ) [ 1 ] , Aravind [ 4 ] , Nepal Wireless [ 5 ] , DjurslandS.Net [ 6 ] , etc . In such networks , long distance wireless links , up to several tens of kilometers are used to connect neighboring villages to a landline node ie a node with wired Internet connectivity ( say , optical fiber ) . Each network node has a WiFi radio mounted atop an antenna tower . The towers are necessary to achieve Line of Sight ( LOS ) for the long distance links . Further details on how such longdistance operation may be achieved using 802.11 are in [ 1 , 7 ] .
The deployments thus far have been ad hoc in nature and planning , if any , was mostly done manually . The lack of a systematic approach has several shortcomings . First , an ad hoc approach or manual planning does not pay attention to the overall system cost . As indicated in [ 1 , 2 ] , cost minimization is the primary criterion for any technology deployment for rural areas in developing regions . In 802.11 based long distance networks , the antenna tower costs form a significant component of the total cost . The antenna towers can be quite expensive : a 30m antenna tower can cost as much as US$1,000 , while the WiFi radio itself may cost $50 or less [ 7 ] . Network infrastructure planning for such long distance networks thus becomes essential .
Figure 1 : The Ashwini network , Andhra Pradesh , India
Second , lack of planning implies that network performance cannot be guaranteed . This is undesirable since a network operator may wish to provide , bandwidth guarantees to each village . Finally , manual planning cannot scale to large networks . For instance , even for the current 16 node deployment of Ashwini ( Fig 1 ) , determining tower heights optimally and assigning antennas and transmit powers to guarantee network performance can be a daunting task without a methodical approach . During our studies at the Ashwini project site , we have found cases of inter link interference and unpredictable throughput performance due to inadequate planning .
Thus , the planning of such long distance wireless mesh networks prior to deployment is very essential . To the best of our knowledge ,
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web893 we are the first to articulate and study this problem . Our first contribution in this paper is the formulation of the problem in terms of the variables , constraints and cost optimization objective .
We quantify the desired network performance in terms of three main sets of constraints ( 1 ) The application throughput constraint : this simply states that a particular download ( or upload ) capacity is required per village node . ( 2 ) Power constraints : these consist of an upper bound on the Effective Isotropic Radiated Power ( EIRP ) at each radio , and a lower bound on the received power at the receiving end of each link ( receiver sensitivity requirements ) . ( 3 ) Inter link interference constraints : at each radio , the received signal strength should exceed the total interference at that radio by a certain threshold .
We identify four main sets of variables which have to be determined in the course of network planning . The first two sets of variables : ( 1 ) the multi hop network topology , and ( 2 ) antenna tower heights , primarily affect the system cost . The next two sets of variables are ( 3 ) the antenna types to be used atop the towers as well as their orientations , and ( 4 ) the transmit powers of the radios in the system . The latter two sets of variables primarily affect the overall network performance . We identify the various inter dependencies in determining these variables for a deployment .
The problem of network planning can thus be stated as :
Given a set of villages to be provided with network connectivity from a given landline node , determine the minimum cost network topology , the tower heights , antenna types and orientations , and radio transmit powers , such that the three constraints : throughput , power , and interference , are satisfied .
A subset of the above problem is the aspect of determining the topology and tower height variables to minimize cost . This subset is akin to the well known hard problem of minimum energy broadcasting in wireless networks , where the complexity arises due to the “ wireless multicast advantage ” [ 8 ] . The presence of the three constraints as well as the inter dependence between the four sets of variables further complicates our overall problem .
Our second contribution in this paper is the articulation of the various design considerations , and the approach we have taken to solve this problem . For this purpose we have drawn upon experiences and lessons from various deployments . We identify the dependencies and break down the problem into four tractable parts : ( a ) Topology Search ( TS ) : exploring the search space to find a topology , ie , deciding which links to form , ( b ) Height Assignment ( HA ) : assigning optimum heights to tower locations once a topology has been formed , ( c ) Antenna Assignment ( AA ) : assigning appropriate antennas at each node and deciding their orientations , and ( d ) Power Assignment ( PA ) : assigning transmit powers to each of the radios in the system . We have applied extensive domain knowledge to strike a balance between problem tractability and solution practicality , while breaking down the problem into its subparts .
We use a branch and bound algorithm for the TS problem and for simplicity , focus only on the construction of a tree topology . The challenge here is in the application of various domain knowledge based techniques to prune the search space . Next , we formulate HA and PA as Linear Programming ( LP ) problems . For AA , we propose a heuristic algorithm of polynomial time complexity .
Due to the inter dependence between these problems , the stage at which we solve them is significant . We perform AA locally for each node , while we do PA and HA for an entire tree , whenever we have a spanning tree during the branch and bound search . Such an approach leads to an efficient algorithm which produces topologies satisfying the various constraints .
In our evaluation so far , we have been able to plan networks of sizes up to about 30 nodes . We have tested our algorithm with a real life instance too : for a 31 node input set corresponding to the original goal of the Ashwini deployment ( a super set of the current 16 node deployment ) . The generated plan includes details of all four sets of variables , and is within 2 % cost of a lower bound estimate . We believe that this is significant given the complexity of the problem . In the future however , it is not unimaginable to have deployments of O(100 ) nodes , to cover the set of villages in a 20 30km radius [ 9 ] . Further algorithmic and methodological enhancements are needed to achieve this . We view our work as the first step in this direction .
Although network topology planning has been studied in different contexts in prior work , several aspects make our setting unique . Unlike cellular network planning , we do not require carpet coverage , but only at the specific village locations . The consideration of cost minimization and the different sets of variables are also unique to our problem setting ( unlike for eg in wired networks or in adhoc networks ) .
While our work is primarily for 802.11 mesh networks , in retrospect , our approach can also readily accommodate other wireless technologies in similar usage settings , such as 802.16 mesh networks . The rest of the paper is organized as follows . In Sec 2 , we articulate the problem in terms of its objective criterion , the variables , and the constraints . Subsequently , Sec 3 describes the overall solution approach , and the problem breakdown . We also provide a detailed description of the formulation and solutions to the four sub problems . We evaluate our algorithms and heuristics in Sec 4 . We present related work in Sec 5 and conclude the paper in Sec 6 .
2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this section , we articulate the problem of network planning . In the course of our discussion , we present the optimization objective , the problem constraints , and the variables involved .
Our primary goal is to minimize the deployment cost . This is because , system cost is a central consideration in any technology deployment for rural regions [ 1 , 2 ] . The long distance links are typically formed using high gain antennas placed atop antenna towers . The main system components are the WiFi radios , the set of antennas , and the antenna towers . Among these , the dominant cost is that of the antenna towers [ 7 ] . Table 1 shows some tower costs from the current Ashwini & DGP deployments . ( The cost for the towers taller than 15m also includes the cost of providing grounding for lightning protection : this cost component is about $100 150 per tower . ) In comparison , the cost of a WiFi radio or an antenna is about one or two orders of magnitude lesser ( ˜$50 ) .
Table 1 : Antenna tower costs
Our optimization objective can thus be stated as : minimize the cost of the towers in the system .
In Table 1 , the tower cost increases , piecewise linearly , with tower height . The required tower height in turn depends on the link length since we need to achieve line of sight ( LOS ) clearance . Further , a single tall tower may be able to support links to several neighboring nodes . The tower heights are thus dependent on the network topology as well . Hence we have two main sets of variables here : the mesh network topology and the tower heights .
While minimizing cost , we also wish to achieve a certain desired level of network performance . We formulate this as a constraint in the TS problem . In this paper , we quantify performance simply
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web894 by saying that each village node requires a certain download/upload capacity from/to the landline . For instance , in the Ashwini network , the original stated performance constraint was a download/upload capacity of 384Kbps per village node , to support high quality interactive video . In the problem formulation , we denote this throughput requirement by R and term the constraint as the throughput constraint . We assume R to be the same for each village node , and in the download/upload directions .
The dependencies of the throughput constraint are as follows . Each link has a certain capacity , which is determined by the PHY layer . For instance , operating at 11Mbps using 802.11b allows a maximum application level throughput of about 7Mbps [ 10 ] . The operation of a link at a particular PHY rate ( eg 11Mbps ) depends on ( a ) the received signal strength ( RSSI ) being above a certain threshold , termed Pmin , and ( b ) the signal to interference ratio ( SIR ) being above a threshold , termed SIRreqd ( in the network , each link acts as interference to the others ) . For typical commercial 802.11b equipment , Pmin = −85dBm and SIRreqd = 10dB for 11Mbps operation [ 10 ] . In our problem , we formulate the above two requirements as the power constraint and interference constraint respectively . It is worth noting that for a given transmit power , the RSSI and SIR are fairly stable for the long distance links [ 10 ] .
The RSSI and SIR depend on several variables : the link length , transmit power , and the antenna types in use . Thus we now have two additional sets of variables the antenna types and their orientations , and the radio transmit powers .
Apart from the power and interference constraints , the throughput constraint also has a dependence on the antenna type , as we explain now . We distinguish between point to point ( p2p ) links and point to multipoint ( p2mp ) link sets ( see Fig 1 ) . In a p2p link , we have a single radio at either end . It is typically formed using antennas of small beam width at either end of a link ( eg parabolic grid antennas with 8o beam width ) . A p2mp link set consists of multiple logical links . Each of the logical links is between a central radio and a radio at the far end . A p2mp link set is usually formed by using a sector antenna at the central location . Sector antennas with beam widths of 30o , 60o , 90o , and 120o are available commercially [ 11 ] . In Fig 1 , p2mp link sets are shown as sectors .
The link capacity in a p2mp link set is shared between its constituent links . And whether we have a p2p link or a p2mp link set is clearly dependent on the antenna type . Further , in a p2mp linkset , the number of nodes sharing the capacity is dependent on the antenna orientation . Thus the antenna types and orientations also affect the throughput constraint .
Figure 2 : Dependencies in network planning
To summarize the above discussion , we state :
Objective : tower cost minimization
Constraints : throughput , power , interference Variables to determine : network topology , tower heights , antenna types & orientations , transmit powers Fig 2 summarizes the dependencies among these .
There are two other factors , not mentioned above , on which the throughput depends . The first is the MAC protocol in use . In this work , we assume the use of the 2P MAC protocol proposed in [ 12 ] . 2P is much more efficient than CSMA/CA for the long distance links , since it allows the simultaneous operation of the multiple radios at a node . Further , it uses a single channel throughout the wireless backbone network . This allows us to use the remaining two ( of the three total ) independent channels of 802.11b for local usage within each village node . 2P effectively reduces each halfduplex wireless link to look like a wired link of half the capacity in each direction ( see Fig 4 in [ 12] ) . We take this into account while checking for the throughput constraint . Changing the multi hop protocol to CSMA/CA or TDMA would result in different formulation of the throughput constraint , as has been shown in [ 13 ] .
While the work in [ 12 ] considers a network of only p2p links , we consider p2mp link sets too . A minor modification is required in 2P to accommodate p2mp link sets . The original 2P protocol has two phases ( hence its name ) : SynTx and SynRx . These two phases correspond to synchronous transmission on all the links from a node , and synchronous reception on the same links . For p2mp link sets , we need to note that the links in the set share the radio at the central node . Thus only one of them will remain active during SynTx or SynRx .
The throughput at a node depends on the routing too . But as mentioned earlier , for simplicity , we only focus on tree topologies . This only provides connectivity and does not address any faulttolerance . For a given tree topology , the routing is fixed . Hence the dependence of routing on throughput translates to dependence on the network topology , which we have already considered as a variable in the problem statement .
3 . SOLUTION TO TOPOLOGY PLANNING In this section , we present our solution to the above problem statement . We first present our overall strategy and the breakdown of the problem in Sec 31 Subsequently , in Sec 3.2 Sec 3.5 , we present formulations of the individual sub problems and their solutions . Our main contribution here is in terms of the partitioning of the problem as well as the application of various domain knowledge based simplifications . 3.1 Overall Solution Strategy
As depicted in Fig 2 , there is significant inter dependence in determining the four sets of variables . Given this , even the formulation of the problem in its entirety is complex . We initially tried this approach , but soon realized that the problem was better addressed by breaking it up into smaller parts .
We do not seek to design a single algorithm which determines all the variables and satisfies all the constraints at one go . As mentioned earlier , even just the sub problem of height assignment seems akin to the well known difficult problem of minimum energy broadcasting in wireless networks [ 8 ] .
The four sets of variables suggests a natural division of the problem along these lines . However , due to the inter dependence , it is still challenging to determine the order in which a set of variables are to be solved for . That is , the order in which the dependencies are resolved is non trivial .
We begin by making several observations . ( O1 ) We first observe from Fig 2 that all three of tower heights , antenna types , and transmit powers are dependent on the network topology ( set of links ) . ( O2 ) Next , we observe that the tower heights are independent of
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web895 the antenna types or the transmit powers . This can be easily understood : the tower heights merely ensure that there is LOS . ( O3 ) The antenna types and the transmit powers are directly dependent on one another .
The first observation ( O1 ) suggests that we should first arrive at a network topology , and then determine the ( dependent ) tower heights , antenna types , and transmit powers . We term this subproblem of finding a tree topology as Topology Search ( TS ) . We use a branch and bound based tree enumeration approach for this . In this approach , it turns out that we can easily check the throughput constraint at each stage of the tree search . Whenever a spanning tree is enumerated , we solve the Height Assignment ( HA ) , Antenna Assignment ( AA ) , and Power Assignment ( PA ) problems , as defined below .
The Height Assignment ( HA ) problem is defined as : for a given topology , determine the tower heights at each of the nodes such that LOS is achieved , and such that the sum total of the tower costs is minimized . Observation ( O2 ) implies that the order of solving the HA problem versus AA or PA are mutually independent . In the following paragraphs , we shall show an LP formulation of HA .
Observation ( O3 ) raises significant questions . Should antenna types to be placed at a node and orientations be decided first , or should transmit powers be determined first ? In either case , how can we ensure that the power and interference constraints are addressed ? A result from prior work helps us resolve this problem . In [ 12 ] , the power assignment problem is defined as : for a given topology and set of antennas , what should the transmit powers be such that the power and interference constraints are satisfied ? The problem is formulated as an LP .
Given that we have a Power Assignment ( PA ) formulation as above , we define the Antenna Assignment ( AA ) problem simply as : given a node and its set of children , what should be the types of antennas used for link formation , and in what directions should they be oriented ? Note that AA is defined local to each node , and there is no global view across the network . In this approach , we solve various local instances of AA ( one instance for each network node ) . We then finally solve the PA problem , which has a global view of the network , and also incorporates the power and interference constraints .
Thus , in each stage of the tree search , we get a spanning tree topology which satisfies the three constraints . For each such topology , we perform HA , and keep track of the topology which has the minimum cost . We now elaborate on the four sub problems . 3.2 Topology Search ( TS )
The topology search ( TS ) algorithm is the all encompassing component , which invokes the other three sub problems at the appropriate junctures . We view the tree topology as being rooted at the landline , with the natural notions of parent and child relations . We use a Breadth First Search ( BFS ) based spanning tree enumeration approach , with several pruning mechanisms . TS also incorporates the throughput constraint by ensuring that the trees it produces satisfy that constraint . We explain this below . Checking the throughput constraint
Recall from Sec 2 that each link has a particular throughput capacity . This is about 7Mbps at the application level , while operating at 11Mbps using 802.11b [ 10 ] . Note that in our design , the power assignment step ensures that each link can operate at this capacity . Further , the 2P MAC protocol is going to ensure that this capacity is divided equally in the download/upload directions . That is , we have 7/2 = 3.5M bps in each direction . Denote this as Bmax .
How Bmax is shared across the various nodes depends on the topology . In the BFS based enumeration , at each stage , we have a connected sub tree rooted at the landline . In this setting , we wish to check if a given sub tree satisfies the throughput constraint . To achieve this , we make the following design decision . We stipulate that all the links with the landline are p2p links . This ensures that we have a download/upload capacity of Bmax on each of these links with the landline . This is illustrated in Fig 3 .
Figure 3 : Throughput constraint : Ki < Bmax
R
Clearly , the links with the landline are going to be the throughput bottlenecks of the network , as the entire traffic of their corresponding sub trees has to be routed by them . We we denote the sub trees hanging from these links as Ti , and the number of nodes in Ti as Ki , as depicted in Fig 3 . Assuming a fair allocation of the bottleneck capacity among the nodes in Ti , we have the throughput constraints represented as Ki < Bmax R . Adherence to this criterion can be easily checked for incrementally during the tree search .
Search pruning strategies
An important aspect of TS is the set of domain knowledge based strategies that we use to cut the time taken by the search procedure . While the search is still combinatorial , the pruning strategies are very effective . Eliminating long links : The first heuristic we apply is to ignore “ long ” links . The intuition for this comes from several factors . First , long links require more transmit power , thus increasing the chances of interference with nearby links . More importantly , longer links require taller towers . The significance of this can be understood from Table 1 . We can see that the cost of sub 15m towers is much lower than that of taller towers . We term such short towers as masts . Such masts are inexpensive since they can simply be constructed by using a couple of water pipes .
From experience in CorDECT deployment efforts , it is known that typically links up to 10 15km long can be formed with only a mast at one of the ends [ 9 ] . The threshold link length we use in our algorithm thus corresponds to this . In a given input data set spanning a diameter of 40 60km , it is easy to see how the elimination of long links will significantly cut down the search space . Tree depth restriction : Another effective pruning strategy is to restrict the depth of the tree topology to be at most two hops from the landline node . This would also significantly reduce the search space . The depth restriction is justified since in most practical cases , we would be looking to plan a network of radius about 2030km from the landline [ 9 ] . Dynamic Cost Bounding ( DCB ) : While the previous two pruning strategies are heuristics , DCB is a pruning strategy based on lower bounding the cost of the sub tree during the BFS based TS process . Now , such lower bounding of cost is tricky for the following reason . Cost is determined by the tower heights , but during the TS , we have not yet assigned any tower heights . And , invoking HA for each subtree during the tree search process is not an option since it would prove to be time consuming ( HA itself is an LP , which may not be solvable in polynomial time ) .
Tower height lower bounding forms the basis for cost lower bound
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web896 ing for a sub tree . It builds on the following insights . ( I1 ) The landline is typically in a town or a city , with reasonably tall buildings around . ( I2 ) About 15km long links can be formed between a 40m tower at one end of the link and a sub 15m mast at the other [ 9 ] . ( I3 ) Due to land undulations ( even in the plains ) and the presence of 10 12m trees , it is unlikely that we can achieve LOS even over distances as short as 1km using just sub 15m masts at either end .
( I1 ) above implies that we require a tall tower at the landline node . In practice this turns out to be about 50 60m high . ( I2 ) implies that for a link , it is always more economical to have one end as a sub 15m mast . Now , combining these with ( I3 ) above ; in twohop configurations , we can have only one of two possibilities : ( a ) a mast at the second hop ( leaf node ) , or ( b ) a mast at the first hop ( non leaf ) . This is shown in Fig 4 .
Figure 4 : The two choices for mast location
Among the two choices , locating the mast at the leaves is clearly more economical . This is so ; because , for every non leaf one hop from the landline , there is at least one ( and possibly many more ) leaf node(s ) . This means that choice ( a ) above is always less expensive than ( or as expensive as ) choice ( b ) .
Now we can use the above discussion for calculating a lower bound on the tower heights ( cost ) of a sub tree as follows . We assume a tall tower ( 50 to 60 m ) having a fixed height at the landline node . We have already argued above that masts ( negligible cost ) are sufficient for leaf nodes . And for the non leaf nodes which are onehop from the landline , the minimum required height ( cost ) can be easily determined by its current child set .
In Sec 4 we shall show that this DCB technique is indeed very useful in pruning the search space . We shall now turn to the HA sub problem . 3.3 Height Assignment ( HA )
In HA , we seek to determine the heights of the towers at the various nodes , such that the overall cost is minimized . In doing this , we are given the network topology .
For long distance WiFi links , line of sight ( LOS ) is required . Prior experience in long distance WiFi [ 7 ] as well as CorDECT links [ 9 ] has indicated that the obstructions ( such as trees , buildings etc . ) play a significant role in determining the height required for achieving LOS .
Figure 5 : The LOS constraint on the tower height
Fig 5 shows how the tower heights at either end of a link are related to the height and location an obstruction in between . We denote by D the link length , by L the obstruction height , and by d the distance of the obstruction from one end of the link . The heights of the towers are denoted h1 and h2 respectively . It is easy to see that for LOS clearance , we can write an inequality using basic geometry : h1 ∗ ( D − d ) + h2 ∗ d ≥ L ∗ D
( 1 )
Generally , in rural areas ( which is where such long distance networks are meant to be primarily used ) , we typically do not have many tall buildings , and the only obstructions are the trees in between . It is possible to have a upper bound on the height of trees in a region . This gives us the value of L . Also for a given link , we can estimate d based on a site survey . Thus in Eq 1 only h1 and h2 are the variables . It should be noted that presence of obstruction sources other than trees does not change the formulation , it only necessitates determination of L from site survey .
Although Fig 5 shows the two tower locations at the same level , this need not be the case . The same approach can readily accommodate tower locations at different Mean Sea Levels ( MSL ) . The MSL data can also be gathered from a site survey ( as is the geographical location of the towers ) . Although our notation does not indicate it ( for simplicity ) , the parameters L and d can be different for each link .
We can write equations similar to Eq 1 for each of the links in the given topology . This gives a set of linear inequalities . In addition , we also impose an upper bound Hupper ( 60m in our evaluations ) on the tower heights : hi ≤ Hupper . This is done to ensure that we do not end up with impractical , arbitrarily high towers . The minimization criterion for HA is : minimize(X C(hi ) )
( 2 ) where C(h ) represents the tower cost as a function of its height . As indicated in Table 1 , the cost function C(h ) is super linear . Hence the above formulation is linear but for the optimization criterion . Piece wise linearity
The cost function C(h ) can be approximated by a piece wise linear function ( as can be any function ) . This is further facilitated by the notion of families of tower structure designs . A particular tower design can accommodate towers within a particular range of heights . The cost typically takes quantum jumps only when the tower design itself changes . If C(h ) can be approximated as a piece wise linear function , we can use the standard technique of separable programming to solve the formulation much like an LP [ 14 ] . The special case of trees with depth at most two
The above formulation of the HA problem makes no assumptions about the nature of the topology . However , if we take into account the fact that we restrict the depth of the tree to be two at the most , a simplification is possible .
We first observe in Table 1 that the main jump in cost comes as we go from masts to taller towers . While the tower cost still remains a super linear function of tower heights beyond 15m , the cost increments across different tower designs is not that substantial . So , in engineering terms , it would not be too bad of an approximation if we assume it to be linear in the range beyond 15m ( so long as we do not exceed much higher than 50m ) . We thus have two linear sections in the cost function : one for masts , and another for taller towers .
Recall our argument from Sec 3.2 that ( a ) the landline node will
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web897 have a tall tower ( 50 60m in height ) , ( b ) the leaf nodes will have masts , and ( c ) the non leaf nodes one hop from the landline will have tall towers . Given these , for each node , we can select the ( linear ) region of the cost function which is applicable for that node ( mast or taller tower ) . Thus the minimization objective in Eq 2 now becomes linear too and the entire HA becomes an LP . The tree depth restriction , thus not only helps in tree search pruning , but also in meaningfully approximating the HA to an LP . We now discuss our solution to the third sub problem : the AA problem . 3.4 Antenna Assignment ( AA )
The AA problem is addressed individually for each node , in a given tree topology . The problem involves deciding the set of antennas to be used at the node as well as their orientations . We assume that we are given a set of antenna types to choose from . We assume that we know the cost associated with each antenna type . For instance , we could be given antennas of beam widths 8o , 22o , 30o , and 60o . Before we present the details of the problem and the solution , it is worth noting two points .
First , as mentioned already , we assume that all the links from the landline node to its children are p2p links . So , we do not need to perform AA for the for the landline node . A more significant aspect to note , is the following . While assigning antennas to a node , we only consider its child set . Specifically , we do not consider the link to its parent . We simply use a p2p link , with a low beam width antenna directed towards the parent . The reason for this is that we do not want a p2mp link set to the parent : the throughput of the link to the parent is the bottleneck , and we do not want it to be shared with any other ( child ) node .
We have two loose goals in AA : cost reduction , and interference reduction . We do not have these as strict optimization goals . One reason for this is that AA resembles the minimum set cover problem : where we need to cover a set of children using a set of antenna types . The minimum set cover problem is a well known NPcomplete problem . Hence instead of formulating and seeking an optimal solution , we simply use a heuristic approach for AA .
Another reason for not seeking even a formulation of strict optimality is that it is not important . First , cost optimization is not significant here since the cost of the antennas are small anyway ( $50 to $150 ) , compared to that of the towers . And interference consideration too need not be strict , since in our overall approach , we push the careful consideration of the interference constraint ( and power constraint too ) to the PA sub problem .
Our heuristic algorithm for AA first pre sorts the child set radi ally . We then use the following recursive procedure .
1 . If the given child set S can be covered within the beam width of a particular antenna type , return that antenna type .
2 . Else , identify the radially adjacent pair of children which have the maximum angular separation . Split S at this point into S1 and S2 .
3 . Call the above procedure recursively for S1 and S2 and merge the antenna sets returned by the recursive calls .
Figure 6 : Recursive antenna assignment : an illustration
It is easy to see that the worst case complexity of the above algorithm is O(|S|2 ) . An illustration of the recursion is given in Fig 6 . The reasoning behind step 1 above is the cost reduction objective . And the reasoning behind finding out sets with the maximum angular separation in step 2 is to achieve interference reduction . The farther away the main lobes of two antennas , lesser is the interference effect of their side lobes on one another . 3.5 Power Assignment ( PA )
The formulation of the PA problem is akin to that in our prior work [ 12 ] . In [ 12 ] , we have an LP formulation for PA , incorporating the power and interference constraints . One significant additional complication which arises in this work is the consideration of p2mp link sets . In this case , not all the links in a p2mp link set are operational at the same time since they share the same radio . Hence while considering the interference of a p2mp link set on other radios , each link of the link set must be considered separately . The formulation however still remains a LP .
In our setting , we also incorporate another insight in PA . Recall that no two nodes with masts ( ie leaf nodes in our tree topology ) will interfere with one another ( I3 from Sec 32 ) We thus leave out these cases in the LP formulation of PA .
4 . EVALUATION
In this section , we present an evaluation of the main aspects of our approach and our algorithms . We seek to answer the question of whether our approach is practical . Also , the AA step in our approach is based on heuristics . This opens up the question of whether our solution is indeed optimal .
We have implemented our algorithm in C , and have used the QSOPT [ 15 ] library for the solving LP problems . All of the simulations were run on a 3GHz desktop .
Unless otherwise mentioned , we use the following parameter settings . We use 15km to be the link length threshold ( as explained in Sec 32 ) The obstruction height L is assumed to be 18m , which represents a situation where we may have tall coconut or palm trees in the vicinity . This is , however , a worst case situation as apart from the coastal regions of India , we mostly encounter shorter trees . We set d to be 1km : this means that we choose the tower location within each village such that we do not have any tall trees within 1km in the exact direction of the intended link . This is practical given that most villages are surrounded by large expanses of farming fields anyway . We assume a variant of Free Space Pathloss model for radio propagation , which closely models the behavior of long distance Wi Fi links [ 16 ] . We use SIRreqd = 15dB , which gives a headroom of 5dB above the theoretical SIR for 802.11b 11Mbps operation . We use R = 384Kbps , which corresponds to the requirement for high quality video as stated in the requirement specifications of Ashwini project . We use Hupper = 60m . The antenna types , costs , and side lobe patterns resemble those of actual off the shelf antennas [ 11 ] .
For the randomly generated input sets , we use 15 node cases , these sets have density of the nodes resembling that of the real deployment scenario ( Ashwini ) . For the cost function C(h ) , we use the two line approximation mentioned in Sec 33 The actual function used is approximated from Table 1 , and is shown in Fig 7 .
We present several aspects of our evaluation below . We first evaluate the algorithm on some real input sets ( Sec 41 ) Next we present the usefulness of the pruning strategies , specifically that of DCB ( Sec 42 ) Finally , we present the effect of varying the input parameters on the performance of algorithm , using random input sets ( Sec 43 )
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web898 be CA . We claim that ˆC represents a lower bound on CA . First observe that both ˆT and TA use the same height for the root node . Now , denote the set of children of the root in ˆT as S . Let TA1 ( with cost CA1 ) be the tree obtained from TA by assigning the root as parent , for all nodes in S . Clearly , CA1 ≤ CA ( since the root ’s height is fixed ) . And TA1 ∈ F , and hence ˆC ≤ CA1 .
Using the above method we found the lower bound for our 31node Ashwini input , to be about $54K . This is only slightly less than the cost of the topology generated by our algorithm . Further , we observed that the lower bound topology does not have a feasible power assignment , while the output of our algorithm clearly does . We depict the topology with lowest cost in Fig 9 . By looking at the links in the region marked by a circle in the figure and comparing the same with Fig 8 , the utility of our algorithm becomes evident . As can be seen , in our topology , node 11 is selected as a non leaf node ( as a parent of nodes 13 , 14 and 16 ) , whereas in the topology with least cost nodes 11,13,14 and 16 are all children of root , which makes AA and P A difficult , due to low angular separation amongst them . In our experience , we have found that in general
Figure 7 : Tower cost versus tower height
4.1 Evaluation on Real Deployment Cases
The original goal of the Ashwini project was to deploy a longdistance WiFi network to provide connectivity to 33 villages surrounding the Bhimavaram town in , Andhra Pradesh , India ( 33+1=34 including the landline ) . The current deployment , shown in Fig 1 , is consists of 15 of the proposed 33 nodes . This deployment was planned manually , and we are already experiencing several performance and interference issues in the network .
Fig 8 shows the topology generated by our algorithm for the input set . However , we should note that only the X and Y coordinates were taken as input , not the MSLs . Also , we assumed L = 18m and d = 2km to be uniform for all links . Three of the nodes 30 , 31 , and 32 could not be connected due to our restriction of link length to 15km , and the 2 hop restriction . We were able to successfully connect the remaining 31 nodes .
Figure 9 : Ashwini topology with least cost ( infeasible ) the power assignment is not easy to achieve using naive schemes . To further stress this point , we note the following . In our original ( manual ) plan for the Ashwini network , we had sought to use all the three non overlapping channels available in 80211b Even in such a scenario , using naive power values of 20dBm ( the default setting in many outdoor WiFi products ) creates inter link interference in several cases .
There are a number of links in the current deployment which cannot function simultaneously due to violation of the above criteria . A few of these are depicted in Fig 10 . In the current setup , there are sectoral antennas of 90 degree beamwidth at nodes 100 and 123 , a sector antenna of 120 degree is present at node 122 for the p2mp links , while all other p2p links have directional antennae . As can be seen from the figure , links from node 100 to nodes 114 or 120 or 124 cannot function when the link from node 125 to node 123 is active ( SIR at 114 and 120 of 9 db and of 10 db at 124 ) . Similarly , the link from node 100 to 119 cannot function when the node 126 is transmitting traffic to node 122 , ( SIR at 119 of 8 db ) . This example further underlines that our algorithm is essential to ensure an operational network . Topology for East Godavari : We present the proposed solution of our algorithm for another real life input . In an extension of the Ashwini project , a deployment for 18 nodes is being planned in the East Godavari district . We have run our algorithm successfully for this input set too . The generated topology is shown in Fig 11 . The cost in this case was about $40,000 , and the algorithm run time was less than 5 seconds .
Figure 8 : Topology generated for Ashwini
In the generated topology , node 0 is the landline node ( Bhimavaram ) .
There are 7 other non leaf nodes , with tower heights in the range of 20 36m . The AA step assigns 8o directional antennas to all but three of the nodes : two of 22o beam width and one of 30o , as shown in Fig 8 . The topology satisfies all the three constraints : throughput , power , and interference . Its overall cost was about $55K , and the algorithm run time was about 10 hours . Cost lower bound : We now compare the above topology cost with a lower bound , computed as follows . We construct a lower bound tree topology by assigning as many children as possible to the root , so long as this is allowed by our link length constraint . After this , there may be some nodes remaining which are unreachable from the root directly . Let these nodes be mi , {i = 1 , 2 , k} Each such node has a set of possible parents Pi . One choice of parent for each mi produces a tree topology . There are a total of Πk i=1|Pi| such trees . We enumerate all these trees , and for each tree , we find the optimal height assignment using the LP formulation given in Sec 33 Call the set of these trees to be F , and let the topology which has the minimum cost be ˆT and its cost ˆC . In this process , we completely ignore PA and AA .
Let TA be the tree output by our overall algorithm , and its cost
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web899 Figure 10 : Links incapable of simultaneous operation in proposed Ashwini deployment
Figure 11 : Topology generated East Godavari
4.2 Effectiveness of pruning
To evaluate the effectiveness of our pruning strategies , Fig 12 shows the run time of the algorithm for random input sets of different node counts . This is compared with the case where we do not have any pruning based on DCB or the elimination of long edges . We can clearly conclude that pruning based on DCB and elimination of long edges makes the algorithm much more scalable . l
) e a c S g o L ( s d n o c e S n i e m T i
100000
10000
1000
100
10 without DCB or long edge removal with DCB and long edge removal
8
10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Number of Nodes
Figure 12 : Run time with and without pruning
Table 2 specifically shows the usefulness of the DCB pruning strategy for 5 different random input sets of 10 nodes each . We can see that DCB is very effective in pruning sub trees early on to cut the run time significantly . 4.3 Algorithm Characteristics
While carrying out network planning , the run time of an algorithm is not a very serious concern , however it matters in certain contexts . For instance , while a run time difference between a few seconds and a few hours hardly matters , a difference between a few hours and a few weeks certainly does . To this end , it is useful to know the performance of the algorithm as the various input parameters are varied . We specifically look at the variation of d , L , and SIRreqd . The different parts of Table 3 shows the variation of the run time for a specific random input set of 15 nodes , with increas
Table 2 : Effectiveness of DCB ing d , L , and SIRreqd . While the data corresponds to a specific topology , we observed similar trends in other random input sets too .
First , we observe in Table 3 that the run time is high for small values of d , and also for large d . The reason for this is that when d is small , too many of the generated tree topologies are adjudged infeasible in the HA step , due to tower height requirement beyond the imposed threshold Hupper . If too many topologies are infeasible , then the running cost bound gets updated only infrequently . This in turn means that DCB is not very effective . On the other hand , when d is too high , then too many tree topologies become low cost , and then as well DCB filtering becomes less effective .
Table 3 : Run time variation with d , L , SIRreqd
Next , we see in Table 3 that the run time increases sharply with the obstruction height L . The reason for this is the same as the higher run time for low d , ie we have several topologies rejected in the HA step . Similarly , the run time increases sharply for large SIRreqd too . The reason for this is that several topologies are now being rejected in the PA step .
We also wish to point out that the overall system cost increases with increasing L or with decreasing d . This is as expected . On the contrary , it is noteworthy that the system cost does not increase significantly if the SIRreqd is incremented . This is because the cost is decided by the tower heights , which is independent of the interference constraint ( see Fig 2 ) . Performance of Antenna Assignment : We now show the usefulness of having p2mp link sets , and of our AA approach in particular . Fig 13 shows the run time of the algorithm for two cases : ( a ) where we simply assign 8o beam width ( directional ) antennas for all links ( ie , all links are p2p links ) , and ( b ) where we consider the a choice of antennas with 8o , 22o , and 30o beam widths to select from and use our AA algorithm .
We use SIRreqd as the x axis in Fig 13 since it is a measure of how stringent the interference constraint is , and how effective our AA approach is in alleviating that . Although Fig 13 is for a specific random input of 15 points , this is representative : we have run for other random inputs too with the similar results . We find in Fig 13 that the run time is lesser with the use of p2mp linksets and with our antenna assignment approach . More important than the reduced run time itself is the reason for this : the PA step becomes less stringent with the use of p2mp link sets ( recall our discussion in Sec 35 ) This means that we are more likely to find feasible topologies with our AA approach than without it .
It is also worthy noting that the inclusion of antennas of larger
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web900 l
) e a c S g o L ( s d n o c e S n i e m T i only directional , no AA with AA algo
10000
1000
100
10
1
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
SIRreqd in dB
Figure 13 : Effectiveness of AA beam widths does not seem to help . For instance , we tried including antennas with 60o beam width in our set of antenna types . With this , the AA step ends up choosing to use a 60o antenna at one or more nodes . However , the side lobe pattern of these antennas are not good enough , and this makes the LP in PA infeasible .
5 . RELATED WORK
Determining the topology in multi hop wireless mesh network has been a topic of significant research [ 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 ] . The work in [ 17 ] showed that the problem of constructing network topology which minimizes the maximum transmitter power allocated to any node is polynomial time solvable . In [ 18 ] the authors propose a cone based distributed algorithm for topology control , while [ 19 ] describes a distributed protocol which is designed for sector antennas . The work in [ 20 ] uses the concept of range neighborhood graphs for topology control .
However , this research has been focused mainly on the problem of topology control , where the aim is to obtain a connectivity pattern which minimizes the energy consumption by the radios in the network . Our work differs significantly in its aim , as our focus is on minimization of cost of initial topology deployment while maintaining the received power values above a given threshold . Power consumption of the radio itself is not a major concern in our setting [ 21 ] .
There has been a significant amount of work in topology planning for cellular networks too . However , their focus is different from ours as their networks are designed to provide carpet connectivity , whereas our goal is to provide connectivity at each village location , at the minimum cost possible . To our knowledge cost minimization of antenna towers while generating a topology is unique in our setting .
The work in [ 22 ] considers an cost analysis of various technologies for rural connectivity . However , they do not consider antenna tower cost , and in this sense our work is complementary to [ 22 ] .
6 . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Usage of long distance wireless networks is inevitable to connect the rural areas of the world and bridge the digital divide . Although several deployments have already sprung up , the issue of network planning has not been considered thus far . In this paper , we first formulate this problem in terms of the relevant objective function , constraints , and variables . The problem is unique and quite different from other network planning or topology construction problems considered thus far , the primary difference being our consideration of system cost .
We introduce a variety of design considerations , with experiences and lessons drawn from different deployment efforts . Based on these , we present a solution approach which breaks down the problem into four tractable sub parts . The four sub problems are inter dependent , and hence the order in which they are solved is significant . We then present solutions to the four sub problems .
Subsequently , we undertake an evaluation of the algorithms . Our evaluation shows that we are able to generate topologies of up to 31 points in practical settings . The cost of the generated topology is within about 2 % of a lower bound . We also show our search pruning strategies to be effective . Further experience is required in the future in terms of putting our algorithms to practical test .
Scalability much beyond what we have achieved is desirable , but there are two bottlenecks . One is the exhaustive search approach . While this can possibly be addressed by intelligently partitioning the set of points into geographical groups , there is another issue too . We have found that power assignment for topologies involving over about 35 nodes has a high chance being infeasible . The presence of too many radios in the system causes significant interlink interference . We believe that addressing this would require the consideration of multiple channels , and channel assignment in parallel with the four variables that we have considered . However , we believe that even formulating this problem meaningfully , without unduly complicating it would be very challenging .
We view our work as a significant first attempt at formulating and solving the problem of long distance rural wireless network planning . Apart from the considerations mentioned above , there are several avenues of improvements possible . In this work , we have restricted the towers to placed only at the given village locations . A more generic approach could consider the placement of towers at any point in the plane . In terms of methodology , we believe that the usage of computational geometry techniques can be quite useful in our setting , and is an interesting direction for future work . While we have considered only tree topologies , an important and significant challenge would be the consideration of fault tolerance in the network topology design .
Finally we would like to point out that while our work was primarily driven by long distance WiFi deployments , much of problem formulation and solution is equally applicable for other similar wireless deployments too ( eg 802.11a/g , 802.16 mesh networks , or CorDECT ) .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The first author would like to acknowledge Bhuvanagiri Lakshminath for the fruitful brainstorming sessions , and Dattatraya Gokhale for the help in reviewing the paper .
8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Pravin Bhagwat , Bhaskaran Raman , and Dheeraj Sanghi .
Turning 802.11 Inside Out . In HotNets II , Nov 2003 . [ 2 ] Eric Brewer , Michael Demmer , Bowei Du , Kevin Fall ,
Melissa Ho , Matthew Kam , Sergiu Nedevschi , Joyojeet Pal , Rabin Patra , and Sonesh Surana . The Case for Technology for Developing Regions . IEEE Computer , 38(6):25–38 , June 2005 .
[ 3 ] Project Ashwini . http://wwwbyrrajufoundation org/ashwini_overviewhtm
[ 4 ] New wireless networking system brings eye care to thousands in India . http://wwwberkeleyedu/news/media/ releases/2006/06/06_telemedicine.sht%ml , June 2006 . UCBerkeley News .
[ 5 ] Nepal Wireless . http://wwwnepalwirelessnet/ [ 6 ] DjurslandS.net : The story of a project to support the weak IT infrastructure in an low populated area of Denmark .
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web901 http://djurslands.net/biblioteket/ international/djurslands_net_english_ presentationppt
[ 14 ] A Ravindran , Don T . Phillips , and James J . Solberg .
Operation Research Principles and Practice , chapter 112 John Wiley & Sons , 1986 .
[ 7 ] Bhaskaran Raman . Digital Gangetic Plains : 802.11 based
[ 15 ] QSOPT Linear Programming Solver . http :
Low Cost Networking for Rural Areas , 2001 2004 : A Report . http://wwwcseiitkacin/users/ braman/dgp.html , 2004 .
[ 8 ] Jeffrey E . Wieselthier , Gam D . Nguyen , and Anthony Ephremides . On the Construction of Energy Efficient Broadcast and Multicast Trees in Wireless Networks . In INFOCOM , 2000 .
[ 9 ] Bhaskar Ramamurthi . Broadband Wireless Technology for Rural India . In XXVIII URSI General Assembly , Oct 2005 . [ 10 ] Kameswari Chebrolu , Bhaskaran Raman , and Sayandeep
Sen . Long Distance 802.11b Links : Performance Measurements and Experience . In MOBICOM , 2006 . To appear .
[ 11 ] HyperGain 2.4 GHz Outdoor Directional 802.11b and
802.11g WiFi Antennas for Wireless LAN Systems . http://wwwhyperlinktechcom/web/ antennas_2400_out_directionalphp
[ 12 ] Bhaskaran Raman and Kameswari Chebrolu . Design and
Evaluation of a new MAC Protocol for Long Distance 802.11 Mesh Networks . In MOBICOM , Aug/Sep 2005 .
[ 13 ] Sayandeep Sen . Topology planning for long distance wireless mesh networks . Master ’s thesis , Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur , 2006 .
//www2isyegatechedu/˜wcook/qsopt/
[ 16 ] Rajesh Gandhi . Empirical path loss models for 802.11b links . Master ’s thesis , Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur , 2003 .
[ 17 ] Ram Ramanathan and Regina Hain . Topology Control of
Multihop Wireless Networks Using Transmit Power Adjustment . In INFOCOM , pages 404–413 , 2000 .
[ 18 ] R . Wattenhofer , L . Li , P . Bahl , and Y . M . Wang . Distributed Topology Control for Power Efficient Operation in Multihop Wireless Ad Hoc Networks . In INFOCOM , 2001 .
[ 19 ] Zhuochuan Huang , Chien Chung Shen , C . Srisathapornphat , and C . Jaikaeo . Topology Control for Ad Hoc Networks with Directional Antennas . In ICCN , 2002 .
[ 20 ] S . A . Borbash and E . H . Jennings . Distributed Topology Control Algorithm for Multihop Wireless Networks . In IJCNN , 2002 .
[ 21 ] Nilesh Mishra , Kameswari Chebrolu , Bhaskaran Raman , and
Abhinav Pathak . Wake on WLAN . In The 15th Annual Interntional World Wide Web Conference ( WWW 2006 ) , May 2006 .
[ 22 ] Shridhar Mubaraq Mishra , John Hwang , Dick Filippini , Tom
Du , Reza Moazzami , and Lakshminarayanan Subramanian . Economic Analysis of Networking Technologies for Rural Developing Regions . In 1st Workshop on Internet and Network Economics , Sep 2005 .
WWW 2007 / Track : Technology for Developing RegionsSession : Networking Issues in the Web902
