Modeling User Behavior in Recommender Systems based on Maximum Entropy
Tomoharu Iwata ,
Kazumi Saito ,
Takeshi Yamada
NTT Communication Science Laboratories
2 4 , Hikaridai , Seika cho , Keihanna Science City Kyoto 619 0237 Japan fiwata,saito,yamadag@cslabkeclnttcojp
ABSTRACT We propose a model for user purchase behavior in online stores that provide recommendation services . We model the purchase probability given recommendations for each user based on the maximum entropy principle using features that deal with recommendations and user interests . The proposed model enable us to measure the efiect of recommendations on user purchase behavior , and the efiect can be used to evaluate recommender systems . We show the validity of our model using the log data of an online cartoon distribution service , and measure the recommendation efiects for evaluating the recommender system .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications| Data Mining ; H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Retrieval and Search|Information Filtering
General Terms Algorithms,Experimentation
Keywords recommendation , user model , maximum entropy principle
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recommender systems are widely used by online stores because they can improve user convenience and store profits . Recommendations would change user behavior , and it is important for online stores to understand user behavior when items are recommended . If online stores know the degree of change in purchase behavior brought about by recommendations , they can predict the degree to which the recommendations can increase cross sell . Although a number of user behavior models have been proposed , they do not consider the efiect of recommendations .
In this paper , we propose a model for user behavior in online stores that provide recommendation services based on the maximum entropy principle . The maximum entropy principle is a method for estimating a probabilistic distribution that satisfles all the constraints in the given data while maximizing the entropy [ 2 ] . In our model , we estimate purchase probabilities for each user given recommendations un der the constraints present in the purchase log data . One of the advantages of the maximum entropy principle is that we can integrate arbitrary features in the model . We integrate user interest information and recommendation information for a user behavior model by employing the maximum entropy principle .
From the log data , our model can estimate the degree of change in purchase probabilities induced by recommendations . We call this degree of change the recommendation efiect . It is di–cult to evaluate recommender systems [ 1 ] . Most recommender systems have been evaluated in terms of their accuracy in predicting ratings or next purchase items . However , the high predictive accuracy of the recommendations does not necessarily imply good recommendations . Those recommendations are likely to recommend ordinary items that users are already aware of . Although other factors , such as novelty or serendipity [ 3 ] have been proposed for use in evaluating recommender systems , it is di–cult to measure them quantitatively . The recommendation efiect estimated with our model can be used to evaluate the recommender system itself . The recommendation efiect can be difierent for difierent users . Some users are more likely to purchase items than others when recommended . We estimate the recommendation efiect for each user . We evaluate our model using real log data , and we estimate the recommendation efiect and the difierence among users . To the best of our knowledge , this is the flrst report describing the recommendation efiect in relation to individual users in a real online store .
2 . USER BEHAVIOR MODEL WITH REC
OMMENDATIONS
Let S = fsjgV j=1 be a set of items , and r(u ) ‰ S be a set of recommended items . Based on the maximum entropy principle , we estimates P ( sju ; r(u) ) , which is the probability that user u purchases item s when an item set r(u ) is recommended .
The item that a user purchases depends on the recommended items and the user interests . We use two types of features to model user purchase behavior . The flrst is whether item s is recommended to user u or not :
( 1
0 z(r(u ) ; s ) = if s 2 r(u ) ; otherwise :
( 1 )
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
The second is related to user interest . We used flrst order Markov transitions si ! sj as interest features , since the
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1281 last purchased item most reveals the interest [ 2 ] :
8><> : yij(u ; s ) =
1 if item si is the last purchased item of user u and s = sj ;
( 2 )
0 otherwise :
Table 1 : Predictive accuracies of N best items ( % ) .
N
1
2
3
4
5
No efiect model
42.1 Uniform efiect model 44.6 Individual efiect model 17.6 26.3 35.8 41.5 45.1
33.9 34.2
24.9 24.9
39.8 39.8
17.4 17.4
With the maximum entropy principle , the probability that user u purchases item s when item set r(u ) is recommended can be modeled as follows :
P ( sju ; r(u ) ) expX fiijyij(u ; s ) + `z(r(u ) ; s ) ; ( 3 ) where Z(u ; r(u ) ) =Pk exp(Pi;j fiijyij(u ; sk)+`z(r(u ) ; sk ) )
Z(u ; r(u ) )
=
1 i;j is the normalization term , and fi = ffiijg and ` are unknown parameters to be estimated . Note that only one fiij in the summation is efiective for a given pair of ( u ; s ) . Since the purchase probability is increased exp(` ) times by the recommendation r(u ) , ` represents the recommendation effect . Some users are likely to be afiected by recommendations , and others are not . Therefore , we estimate the recommendation efiect `n for each user un . The unknown parameter fi and `n can be estimated by maximizing the log likelihood .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
We evaluated our model in terms of predictive accuracies of next purchase items under a certain recommendation provided using the log data of an online cartoon distribution service for cell phones in Japan . In this online store , flve cartoons are recommended that are chosen manually by human experts on each cartoon distribution page .
We compared following three models : no efiect model , uniform efiect model , and individual efiect model . No effect model assumes the recommendation efiect ` = 0 , which uses only user interests for features as same as conventional user models . Uniform efiect model has uniform recommendation efiects ` for all users . Individual efiect model has the recommendation efiects `n for each user un . We flrst estimated parameters about user interests fi using the log data without recommendations , and used the parameters fi for all three models . The log data consisted of 23,354 users , 218,231 transactions , and 128 items . Next , we estimated the average recommendation efiect ` for all users using the log data with recommendations and used the parameters ` for the uniform efiect model . The log data consisted of 44,338 users , 604,673 transactions . Finally , we estimated recommendation efiects for each user `n with a Gaussian prior with mean ` and variance 1=· . We used · = 1 . The test data was the last item of each user in the log data with recommendations , that was excluded in the estimation .
For the evaluation measurements , we used the predictive accuracies of N best items . Table 1 shows the results . The accuracy of the individual efiect model is higher than that of the others . This result shows that estimating the individual recommendation efiect is important in terms of predicting purchase behavior . The average recommendation efiect was ` = 0:24 . This means that the purchase probability is increased 1:27(= exp(0:24 ) ) times by recommendations , and the recommendations lead to increased purchases . Figure 1 shows a histogram of users with recommendation efiect `n estimated in the individual efiect model . This flgure can
Figure 1 : Histogram of users with recommendation efiect `n in the individual efiect model . be viewed to characterize the recommendations used in the online store . It has two peaks at around `n = 0:1 and 0:8 . The recommendations did not change purchase behaviors of users around `n = 0:1 , and this might be because they were recommended ordinary items that the users would purchase even without recommendations . On the other hand , the recommendations afiected purchase behaviors of users around and above `n = 0:8 , and the one reason might be their high serendipity .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we proposed a model for user behavior in online stores that provide recommendation services . We estimates the probability of purchasing an item given recommendations for each user based on the maximum entropy principle . Using our model , we can measure the recommendation efiects . In the experiments , we showed the validity of our model using the log data of a real online store . We used simple features to model user interests . We need to improve our user behavior model using other features , such as user demographic information , and content information . We would like to evaluate our model further by applying it to other online stores .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] J . L . Herlocker , J . A . Konstan , L . G . Terveen , and
J . T . Riedl . Evaluating collaborative flltering recommender systems . ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 22(1):5{53 , 2004 .
[ 2 ] T . Iwata , K . Saito , and T . Yamada . Recommendation methods for extending subscription periods . In Proceedings of the Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pages 574{579 , 2006 .
[ 3 ] C N Ziegler , S . M . Mcnee , J . A . Konstan , and
G . Lausen . Improving recommendation lists through topic diversiflcation . In Proceedings of the international conference on World Wide Web , pages 22{32 , 2005 .
−3−2−10123010002000300040005000600070008000recommendation effect fthe number of usersWWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1282
