A Probabilistic Semantic Approach for Discovering Web Services
Jiangang Ma
School of Computer Science & Mathematics , Victoria University
Australia ma@csmvueduau
Jinli Cao
Australia
Dept . Comp . Sci . and Comp . Eng .
La Trobe University ,
School of Computer Science & Mathematics , Victoria University jinli@cslatrobeeduau yzhang@csmvueduau
Yanchun Zhang
Australia
ABSTRACT Service discovery is one of challenging issues in Service Oriented computing . Currently , most of the existing service discovering and matching approaches are based on keywords based strategy . However , this method is inefficient and time consuming . In this paper , we present a novel approach for discovering web services . Based on the current dominating mechanisms of discovering and describing Web Services with UDDI and WSDL , the proposed approach utilizes Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis ( PLSA ) to capture semantic concepts hidden behind words in the query and advertisements in services so that services matching is expected to carry out at concept level . We also present related algorithms and preliminary experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of our approach . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H . 35Online Information Services : Web based services , Miscellaneous General Terms : Algorithms , Design Keywords : Web Service , Web Services Matching
1 . INTRODUCTION Web Service discovery is one of challenging issues in ServiceOriented computing . This discovery process mainly involves locating desired services either published in a registry like UDDI or scattered in P2P systems , matching users’ requirements to a set of services and returning relevant ones to the consumers . With the ever increasing number of services published in Internet , finding desired services is just similar to looking for a needle in a haystack[1 ] . Although there are different kinds of approaches dealing with discovery issue , three of commonly used methods are identified in the paper : keywords based , SVD based and Ontology based approaches . First , keywords based mechanism is one of the dominating techniques for web services discovery and matching . However , this approach based on term frequency analysis is insufficient in the majority of the cases because it fails to contemplate the semantic concepts hidden behind the service descriptions . An alternative to the keywords based approach is to find common semantic concepts between the terms in the query and the services advertisements . In [ 4 ] , a mathematics approach called Singular value decomposition ( SVD ) has been implemented to match web services . This method employs SVD of the service matrix to discover associated patterns between the word descriptions and the concepts hidden behind the description . Although this
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . approach shows some advantages compared to the keywords based one , its lacking of completely reasonable probabilistic interpretation [ 3 ] might limit its further application . More recently , ontologybased approach has been seeking to use ontology to annotate elements in web services , which aims to not only capture the information on the structure and semantics of a domain , but facilitate software agents to make inference at the level of concept . Nevertheless , creating and maintaining ontology may involve huge amount of human effort . We propose to extend the SVD of matrix approach of matching web services [ 4 ] with a different methodology called Probabilistic Latent Semantics Analysis ( PLSA ) [ 2 , 3 ] , which turns out to have sound probabilistic interpretation and better performance . Our main contributions consist of two aspects . The first contribution is that the technique using probabilistic semantic approach is introduced to discover and match web service . According to our knowledge , no such similar methods have been found . Second , we present algorithms to discover and select web services .
2 . PLSA INTRODUCTION
Our probabilistic semantic approach is based on the PLSA model that is called aspect model [ 2 ] . PLSA utilizes the Bayesian Network to model an observed event of two random objects with a set of probabilistic distributions . In the text context , an observed event corresponds to occurrence of a word w occurring in a document d . The model indirectly associates keywords to its corresponding documents through introducing an intermediate layer called hidden factor variable . Based on the assumption that a document and a word are conditionally independent when the latent concept is given , the joint probability obtained from the probabilistic model of an observed pair ( is shown as following : i
( 1 ) dwPdP ( i wd
, wdP ( z ,{ 1
Z =
, , kz
}
)
=
) , i z
2
| j
) j
)
(
, i j
Where dwP (
| j
)
= i k
∑
1 = f zP ( f
| zwPd | i
(
) j
)
( 2 ) f
From formula 2 , we can see that the aspect model expresses dimensionality reduction by mapping a high dimensional term document matrix into the lower dimensional one ( k dimension ) in latent semantic space . PLSA was originally used in text context for information retrieval and now has been used in web data mining [ 5 ] . In this paper , we utilize PLSA for discovering and matching web services .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1221 3 . PSDA—PROBABILISTIC SEMANTIC DISCOVERING APPROACH
Our approach is based on our observation on uncertainty on the usage of web services in the Web environment . This uncertainty is reflected in two aspects . For client side , a service user may not have specific goal in his mind while he browses web service categories in the web . Second , web services are priori unknown . Based on this observation , we introduce probabilistic approach to deal with service discovery .
3.1 Overview of Our PSDA Approach
Figure 1 illustrates the outline of the proposed probabilistic latent semantic approach . The approach first filters out those web services whose types are not compatible to a user ’s query , which will lead to a smaller size of services available ( N m ) . Next , PLSA is used to match semantic similarity between query and web services . Finally , the Quality of Services ( QoS ) is combined with the proposed semantic method to produce a final score that reflects how semantically close the query is to available services .
Figure 1 outline of PSDA approach
3.2 Web Services Information Processing The overall process of discovering web services includes : information collection , data processing , data representation and similarity matching . The information collecting : As each web service has its associated WSDL file describing its functions , we firstly extract the service interface information such as name and textual description in the WSDL file . The data processing stage consists of into appropriate format of data suitable for model learning . For this purpose , commonly used approaches for words processing such as word stemming and stopwords removing are applied . The data representation : In our probabilistic model , the pre processing information would be represented by the bag of words . We define a service document for each service and a service matrix for a service corpus for probabilistic semantic matching algorithm . transforming raw web service information
3.3 Probabilistic Semantic Matching Algorithms
P latent (
The key of our discovering approach is first to cluster the services into a group of learned latent variables , which can be achieved by computing probability for each latent variable using formula 3 . The rationale for this is that in the dimension reduced semantic space , each web service can be represented as a mixture of latent variables and the services with similar semantic concepts are projected to be close to each other . With the maximum value of the computation used for the class label for a service , we can categorize services into their corresponding group . service iable var
−
)
| dzP (
|
)
= new dP ( new dP (
| zPz )( )
) new
= new dP ( dP ( ∑
Z ∈ z f
| zPz )( ) z )
| f new
( 3 )
After removing irrelevant services , the similarity of a query in respect to the services in the relevant group can be computed with formula 4 . As a query may be outside the model , we use Expectation Maximization algorithm to fold the query in the model . sim
PLSA
( qd ) , i
= zP ( f
| zPq ( )
| d i
) f
∑
Z ∈ f zP ( z
∑ z f
Z ∈
2
| q
) f
( 4 ) zP ( f
| d i
)
2
∑ z f
Z ∈
Finally , Quality of Services ( QoS ) can be combined with PLSA similarity score to produce a final ranking that reflects how semantically close the query is to available services
( 5 )
1( −+
λ •=
Sim
Sim
) λ
) ,
S
•
(
( qd ) , i
PLSA qd , i
QoS
4 . PRELIMINARY EVALUATION and
( 44 ) sets : testing data training data
The preliminary experiments are carried out on the collection of web services whose WSDL files can be accessed via service collection published in XMethods . In our case , we identify the services of four categories : General Information , Location Finder , Translation Services and Business Services . Thus , we obtain a corpus of services consisting of 77 services that are divided into two data ( 33 ) . We train the model with 6 aspects , which is slightly greater than the number of selected four service categories . In order to evaluate the outcome , we compute precision and recall and apply traditional vector based similarity baseline used in information retrieval approach to compare to the proposed algorithm in this paper . As it turns out , our probabilistic semantic discovery method increases the overall recall because the approach considers semantic concepts hidden behind words in the query and advertisements in services . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] John Garofalakis , Y . Panagis , E . Sakkopoulo and A . Tsakalidis . Web Service Discovery Mechanisms : Looking for a Needle in a Haystack ? In International Workshop on Web Engineering , August 10 , 2004 . [ 2 ] Thomas . Hofmann . Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis In Proceedings of the 22nd Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval . Berkeley , California , pages : 50 57 , ACM Press , 1999 . [ 3 ] Thomas . Hofmann . Probabilistic Latent Semantic Indexing . In Proceedings of the 22nd Annual International SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval,1999 . [ 4 ] Atul Sajjanhar , Jingyu Hou and Yanchun Zhang . Algorithm for Web Services Matching . In Proceedings of the 6th AsiaPacific Web Conference , APWeb 2004 , Hangzhou , China , April,14 17,2004 . [ 5 ] Guandong Xu , Yanchun Zhang , Jiangang Ma and Xiaofang Zhou . Discovering User Access Pattern Based on Probabilistic Latent Factor Model . In Proceedings of the 16th Australasian Database Conference – Volume : 39 pages : 27 – 35 , Newcastle , Australia , 2005 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1222
