Deriving Knowledge from Figures for Digital Libraries∗
Xiaonan Lu , James Z . Wang , Prasenjit Mitra , and C . Lee Giles
The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , Pennsylvania , USA xlu@csepsuedu , {jwang , pmitra , giles}@istpsuedu
ABSTRACT Figures in digital documents contain important information . Current digital libraries do not summarize and index information available within figures for document retrieval . We present our system on automatic categorization of figures and extraction of data from 2 D plots . A machine learning based method is used to categorize figures into a set of predefined types based on image features . An automated algorithm is designed to extract data values from solid line curves in 2 D plots . The semantic type of figures and extracted data values from 2 D plots can be integrated with textual information within documents to provide more effective document retrieval services for digital library users . Experimental evaluation has demonstrated that our system can produce results suitable for real world use . Categories and Subject Descriptors : [ H33 ] Information Systems : Information Search and Retrieval General Terms : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation Keywords : Figures , Feature Extraction , Machine Learning
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Figures present important information about documents . Many types of of illustrations such as pictures and nonpictorial graphics may be contained in figures . They are commonly used to illustrate key ideas and to help readers understand the content of documents . Although much attention has been devoted to summarization and retrieval of textual information within documents , relatively little attention has been given to figures that appear in documents [ 1 ] . This work attempts to address the summarization of figures within documents .
We have applied content based approach for deriving knowledge from figures in electronic documents . We have designed methods to enable computers to classify figures into a set of predefined semantic types , and to extract data values corresponding to line curves within 2 D plots . The semantic type of a figure and data extracted from 2D plots provide summarization about figures in documents . These information about figures can be combined with ∗This work was supported in part by the US National Science Foundation under grants 0535656 , 0347148 , 0454052 , and 0202007 , Microsoft Research , and the Internet Archive .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . information within documents to assist library users in finding relevant documents more existing textual digital effectively .
2 . THE METHOD
2.1 Categorization of Figures
Our system , as shown in Figure 1 , uses a machine learning based approach to categorize figures into a set of predefined classes based on image features extracted from content of figures [ 4 ] . The defined classes consist of photograph and non photograph , while the non photograph is further divided into 2 D plot , 3 D plot , Diagram , and Others . The image features consist of global texture features and part object features . The global texture features measure the distribution of background , text , and picture blocks [ 3 ] within a figure , which are used to discriminate photograph vs . non photograph figures . The object features record the existence of a specific type of objects , currently straight lines , which are used to classify different types of nonphotograph figures . Finally , a supervised learning method is selected to train the computers for automatic categorization of figures .
Figure
Global Texture
Extraction
Edge Detection
Line Detection
Categorization
Type
Figure 1 : The process to categorize figures .
2.2 Data Extraction from 2 D Plots
Our data extraction process , as shown in Figure 2 , extracts data values from line curves within 2 D plots . Currently , our system processes solid line curves and records data points of curves in database . The extracted data values may serve as the raw data for a variety of analyses , eg , curve fitting of the raw data , analysis of published models of scientific phenomena , interpretation , and predictions .
Techniques used in our data extraction system include Hough transform based straight line detection , image thinning , Primary Chain Code(PCC ) based line analysis [ 5 ] , and line composite analysis . The axis detection module , as shown in Figure 2 , uses a customized Hough transform technique to detect axis lines of 2 D plots . Then , objects in data regions of 2 D plots are reduced to thin lines .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1229 2−D plot image
Binarization
Axis Detection
Thinning data set
Curve Reconstruction pixel level
Line
Segmentation
Denoising
PCC Coding
PCC level
Figure 2 : The data extraction process for 2 D plots .
After that , raster images are transformed into PCC based representation , which are suitable for line analysis . Noise reduction and line segment detection are conducted on the PCC level . Finally , we define a special type of line composite corresponding to solid line curves within 2 D plots . Techniques have been designed to construct solid line curves on top of detected simple line segments . After solid line curves are constructed , data points are selected from curves and data values are recorded in database .
Techniques have been designed to resolve the issue of intersections between multiple line curves . Intersections are detected based on analysis of connectivity attributes among line segments . Three types of intersection segments are defined and different handling methods are designed for different types of intersections . Finally , a derivativematching based method has been designed to determine the continuation of curves after intersections .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS Categorization : The performance of automatic categorization of figures in documents have been tested on the figures extracted from the CiteSeer [ 2 ] scientific literature digital library . A dataset of about two thousand scientific documents were randomly selected from the digital library and figures were extracted from those documents . The photograph vs . non photograph and multi class classifications were conducted and classification performance were reported [ 4 ] . The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of global textual features on discriminating photograph vs . non photograph , and the effectiveness of straight line features on recognition of 2 D plots .
Data Extraction from 2 D Plots : Three datasets have been used in the evaluation of our data extraction system ( 1 ) the CiteSeer digital library , ( 2 ) Web images collected by using Google image search , and ( 3 ) MATLAB generated plots . The performance of data extraction is measured by the correspondence between the original 2 D plots and the redrawn plots based on extracted data . Since the original data values are not available for 2 D plots from published scientific documents and from the Web , plots are redrawn based on extracted data so that we can “ view ” extracted data values and manually check the correspondence between extracted data values and the original 2 D plots . The ratio of matched curves for the three data sets are shown in Table 1 . the
In addition to correspondence measure , the correctness of extracted data are evaluated for the synthetic dataset generated using MATLAB . Since the original data values for 2 D plots generated using MATLAB are available , it is possible for us to compare the original data values with
Table 1 : Correspondence between the original 2 D plots and the redrawn plots
Data Set # Curves # Matched Match ratio Synthetic CiteSeer
86 % 62 % 73 %
177 77 40
153 48 29
Web extracted values . Specifically , for every pair of matched original curve and redrawn curve , the X and Y dimension values are normalized to 0 10 and 0 100 , respectively . A set of data points are selected from each curve so that their X dimension values are uniformly distributed over the range of valid X dimension values . Finally , the Mean Squared Error ( MSE ) between Y dimension values of the original data sets and the extracted data sets are calculated . The average MSE between the original data sets and the extracted data sets are illustrated in Table 2 .
Table 2 : MSE between the original data sets and the extracted data sets for MATLAB generated plots
# Curves # Matched MSE 1.26
177
153
The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on extracting data from 2 D plots . Analysis of experimental results reveals various reasons for failed cases : poor image quality of scanned documents , skewness of documents , etc . Since the line analysis algorithm depends on connectivity , our method has difficulty in handling broken curves .
4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
We have shown a system that can categorize figures and extract data from 2 D plots in scientific documents . We plan to extend the categories of figures and design effective image features for categorization . We aim at making the data extraction algorithm more robust to noisy figures . We will analyze more types of figures within documents .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Carberry , S . Elzer , and S . Demir . Information graphics : an untapped resource for digital libraries . In Proceedings of the 29th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval , pages 581–588 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] C . L . Giles , K . Bollacker , and S . Lawrence . CiteSeer :
An automatic citation indexing system . In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Digital Libraries , pages 89–98 , 1998 .
[ 3 ] J . Li and R . M . Gray . Context based multiscale classification of document images using wavelet coefficient distributions . IEEE Transactions on Image Processing , 9(9):1604–1616 , 2000 .
[ 4 ] X . Lu , P . Mitra , J . Z . Wang , and C . L . Giles .
Automatic categorization of figures in scientific documents . In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries , pages 129–138 , 2006 . [ 5 ] M . Seul , L . O’Gorman , and M . J . Sammon . Practical Algorithms for Image Analysis . Cambridge University Press , 2000 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Semantic Web1230
