EOS : Expertise Oriented Search Using Social Networks
Juanzi Li , Jie Tang , Jing Zhang
Tsinghua University , Beijing China , 100084
{ljz , tangjie , zhangjing} @kegcstsinghuaeducn
Qiong Luo , Yunhao Liu
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology , China {luo , liu}@cseusthk
Mingcai Hong Tsinghua University , Beijing China , 100084 hmc@kegcstsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present the design and implementation of our expertise oriented search ( EOS ) system . EOS is a researcher social network system . It has gathered information about a halfmillion computer science researchers from the Web and constructed a social network among the researchers through their co authorship . The relationship in the social network information is used in both ranking experts on a given topic and searching for associations between researchers . Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Information Systems ] : Information storage and retrievalsearch process , H4m [ Information System Applications ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Algorithm , Experimentation Keywords Association Search , Expert Search , Social Network
( EOS ) aims at topic , detecting the confliction of
1 . INTRODUCTION Expertise Oriented Search providing comprehensive expertise analysis from distributed resources . It is useful in many applications , for example , finding experts on a given interest between researchers , and assigning reviewers to proposals . Expertise oriented search addresses two main challenges : 1 ) retrieving largely unstructured raw data from different sources , extracting and integrating semantics from the data ; and 2 ) effectively and efficiently analyzing and mining the large amount of data . Driven by such applications and challenges , we have developed EOS , an expertise oriented search system . Currently EOS contains the information of 448,289 computer scientists , including their profiles and publications . This information is gathered from the Web and is integrated into a social network after cleaning and annotation . EOS provides four kinds of expertise oriented search services : ( 1 ) searching for a given person's information , ( 2 ) searching for publications , ( 3 ) searching for experts on a given topic , and ( 4 ) searching for associations between two researchers . The construction of the social network and the later two kinds of search services are the key points of the paper . The framework of social network construction and the algorithms proposed in this paper can be applied in social networks of other domains .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . We present the social network construction in Section 2 . We describe our algorithms about expert search and association search in EOS in Sections 3 and 4 . We discuss our system implementation and experiments in section 5 . We conclude in section 6 . list from Citeseer
2 . SOCIAL NETWORK CONSTRUCTION Formally , a social network can be defined as a graph G = ( V , E ) , where v∈ V represents a person in the social network and et ij∈ E represents a relationship with type t between persons vi and vj . We use PLI(v ) to represent the person x ’s local information such as person ’s name , title , and affiliation , and use PRI(v ) to represent the relationships of person v with the other persons . In EOS , coauthorship is used as one type of the relationships . The major problem in the construction of a social network is to identify and integrate the person profile from distributed sources on the Web [ 1 ] . As the data sources , in EOS , we used Web pages related to a person , XML files of DBLP , and the publication ranking ( http://wwwciteseercom ) The construction of the social network consists of three steps : 1 ) identifying related Web pages , 2 ) person information annotation , and 3 ) constructing the social network among researchers . From the DBLP data , we obtained a list of researcher names . We use each of the researcher names as a keyword to search in Google and select the top 20 returned pages . Next a SVM ( Support Vector Machines ) based classification model is employed to identify the really relevant Web pages which include the information to the person . In Web page annotation , we use a rule learning based annotation tool [ 2 ] to annotate from the identified Web pages the person information ( including title , affiliation , address , phone number , fax phone number , and email address ) . We also use a classification based method to annotate the researcher ’s picture . We obtain other information about the researcher ( such as coauthors’ names and his/her detailed publication information ) from DBLP . After that , we merge the gathered information of two parts and build a profile for the researcher . So far , we use heuristic rules to deal with the problem of name disambiguation . After that , we use co authorship as the relationship between researchers and build the social network automatically . Currently , there are 448,289 persons and 725,655 publications have been gathered in EOS . Totally , there are 2,413,208 relationships between persons with 5.38 relationships for each person on average .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1271 where d(PLI_A(x) ) , d(p1 ) , d(p2 ) , … , d(pm ) are m+1 virtual documents constructed from PLI_A(x ) and Pub(x)={p1 , p2 , … , pm} . Pub(x ) is a set of papers authored by person x , and PLI_A(x ) is person x ’s local information excluding his/her publications . rel_l(x , q ) is composed of two parts . rel(d(PLI_A(x) ) , q ) denotes the relevancy of person x ’s local information to the topic q except for his/her publication information and rel(d(pi ) , q ) denotes the relevancy of paper pi to topic q . w(pk ) represents the impact factor of the publication pk . We set λ=0.5 and define rel(d , p ) = p(q|d ) . Let q={t1 , t2 , … , tn} , ti is a word in topic q . We define p q d ( based on the probability independent assumption , where p(ti|d ) is the probability of t in document d . In the second stage , we propagate the topic relevancy of one researcher to his/her related researchers using a propagation based algorithm [ 3 ] . The relevancy is updated by : )i
= ∏ p t d (
( ) eco
1i ) + q,'x n i 1 = q,x q,x rel rel rel i )
×
+
=
| i
|
)
(
)
(
(
∑ e ∈
)x(PRI
3 . EXPERT SEARCH Most current work of expert finding focuses on how to rank experts by using a collection of documents or using information in the web pages or within enterprise . In EOS , we intend to improve the performance of expert finding from social networks by proposing a relevancy propagation based expert finding algorithm . The algorithm consists of two stages . In the first stage , we calculate rel_l(x , q ) , the relevancy of a person to a topic q , based on his/her local information : i∑
)q)),x(A_PLI
)q),p(d(rel
)q,x(l_rel
)p(w
( d(rel
×= λ
) λ
1( m
−
×
+ i
1i = where , co(e ) is the propagation weight of edge e . rel(x , q)0 is the relevancy value calculated in the first stage . x' is a person which has relationships with person x .
4 . ASSOCIATION SEARCH In association search , the main difficulty is the time efficiency of the algorithm . A social network usually contains hundreds of thousands of nodes and millions of edges , and the response time to an association search should be within a few seconds . We propose a two stage association search method to search for connections between two researchers . Let asso(s , t ) be an association search task where s is the source person and t is the target person . In the first stage , we use a heapDijkstra algorithm to quickly find the shortest paths from all persons v ∈ V {t} in the graph to t with a running time of O((m+n)log(n ) ) where m is number of edges and n is the number of nodes in the social network . In the second stage , we implement a straightforward s t association enumeration algorithm using the depth first graph search . The algorithm extends an s s’ association to t along the relationship e . We constrain the length of an association to be less than a pre defined threshold max_length . We tentatively set it to be 7 in our experiments which can reduce the computational cost .
5 . SYSTEM AND EXPERIMENTS We have implemented the proposed algorithms and developed the system EOS , which is available at http://wwwarnetminernet the committees as
Now , EOS provides four kinds of expertise oriented search services including person search , expert search , associate search and publication search . We tested the performance of EOS . The average time of extracting person information from the Web and DBLP varies from few seconds to half dozen seconds . In expert search , the average search time is 2 5 seconds testing on expert finding tasks on 10 topics . In association search , the average search time in the network is less than 3 seconds . For expert search , we assume that an expert to a topic is often active in the committees of the top conferences and organizations in the topic . We chose 5 topics and collected 5 lists of experts from the standard evaluation metrics ( http://kegcstsinghuaeducn/project/PSN/datasethtml ) We evaluated the proposed expert finding algorithm in terms of the measures in [ 4 ] . Experimental results show that : ( 1 ) Our method significantly outperforms the baseline method using traditional IR methods ; ( 2 ) In almost all the evaluations , our method outperforms the method which makes use of only person local information . The test data sets used in association search are people pairs randomly selected from the social network . The number of people pairs in each test set is 1000 . Experiments show that our proposed method achieves a high efficiency in all of the association search tasks . Our approach can find associations in less than 3 seconds on most of the test sets . Brute force enumeration based baseline method uses nearly more than four hundred times of our approach . 6 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we present an expertise oriented search system . We introduce the search services provided in the EOS system and conduct experiments to evaluate its performance . The system has been in operation for several months . We will open EOS to researchers so that they might extract information , edit and modify the information , and perform the complex expertise oriented search in social networks . As the future work , we plan to investigate the extraction of more complex relationships and mining issues on social networks with the complex relationships . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been supported by Natural Science Foundation of China ( 90604025 ) 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Aleman Meza , B . , Nagarajan , M . , Ramakrishnan , C . , Ding ,
L . , Kolari , P . , Sheth , A . P . , Arpinar , I . B . , Joshi , A . , and Finin , T . 2006 . Semantic analytics on social networks : experiences in addressing the problem of conflict of interest detection . In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW’2006 ) . 407 416 .
[ 2 ] Tang , J . , Li , J . , Liang , B . , Huang , X . , Wang , K . 2005 . iASA : learning to annotate the Semantic Web . Journal on Data Semantics , Vol(IV ) , 2005 . pp . 110 145 .
[ 3 ] Arasu , A . , Novak , J . , Tomkins , A . , Tomlin , J . 2002 . PageRank computation and the structure of the web : Experiments and algorithms . In Poster Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW’2002 ) .
[ 4 ] Craswell , N . , Vries , APd and Soboroff , I . 2005 . Overview of the Trec 2005 enterprise track . TREC 2005 Conference Notebook , pp . 199 205 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1272
