Collaborative ICT for Indian Business Clusters
Soumya Roy
Motorola India Research Labs
Bangalore , India roysoumya@gmail.com
Shantanu Biswas
Motorola India Research Labs
Bangalore , India shantanubiswas@gmailcom
ABSTRACT Indian business clusters have contributed immensely to the country ’s industrial output , poverty alleviation and employment generation . However , with recent globalization these clusters can loose out to international competitors if they do not continuously innovate and take advantage of the new opportunities that are available through economic liberalization . In this paper , we discuss how information and communication technologies ( ICT ) can help in improving the productivity and growth of these clusters .
Categories and Subject Descriptors K43 [ Computers and Society ] : Organizational Impact – Automation , Computer supported Collaborative work , Employment
General Terms Management , Design , Economics , Human Factors Keywords SME clusters , India , Emerging markets , ICT
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Clustering of small firms is much sought after in promoting the growth of MSMEs 1 in developing and developed world [ 1 ] . MSMEs have employees ranging from 5 to about 500 . Individual firms because of small size cannot achieve economies of scale in production , advertising and sales , which are possible for large enterprises . However , the individual firms in a cluster can succeed by closely collaborating with other small firms of the same industrial sector and located in the same geographical area . At the cluster level , the enterprises can share orders and subcontract parts of the production where needs cannot be supported individually . The biggest success stories of clusters have been from Italy [ 2 ] , where the small firms are leading exporters of high quality goods . In developing countries like India , the barriers of entry for large firms is high because of several extraneous factors like limited resources , government policies , etc . Therefore , the clusters of small firms can be the perfect engines for industrial growth .
1MSME : Micro , Small and Medium Scale Enterprises . According to Government of India , micro enterprises have investment up to $22K , small scale enterprises have investment of $22K $220K , while the medium scale enterprises have investment of $220K $2.2 million .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
No of Clusters No Of Units Manufactured Exports from India
2042 1.5 million ( avg : 700/cluster ) 60 %
Table 1 : Impact of SME clusters on Indian Economy
2 .
INDIAN CLUSTERS : CURRENT STATUS Clustering is a known phenomenon in Indian context and has played a significant role in the nation ’s industrial growth and diversification . In terms of employment generation , the business clusters are just second to agriculture . The impact of SME clusters on India ’s economy has been tremendous as shown in Table 2 . One very illustrative cluster [ 1 ] is Tiruppur cluster of Tamil Nadu . This cluster has around 7000 SMEs and contribute to 80 % of the country ’s knitwear exports .
Nevertheless , despite these striking figures , most Indian clusters are not performing to their full potential [ 3 ] . Based on case studies of many clusters , main reason for underperformance is lack of co operation among the cluster actors . Multiple factors have led to this problem : ( a ) informal communication ( lack of formal and legal framework for joint operations leads to mistrust ) ( b ) lack of understanding of the benefits of simultaneous competition and co operation ( c ) lack of knowledge sharing ( d ) fear of loosing out in competition ( e ) lack of effort in developing collective goods and common activities . Only recently , through the intervention of external support institutions like UNIDO , SIDBI , SIDO etc , there have been strong cluster development initiatives to forge strong intra cluster network and establish external network linkages . ICT can significantly complement clustergrowth initiatives by formalizing cluster operations and reducing transaction costs for common activities . However , till now , not much attention has been paid to understand the potential utility of ICT in achieving these . Therefore , we feel that this is the opportune moment to take a look at the potential merits of ICT adoption and investigate whether a fresh approach is needed to build solutions specific for developing regions like India .
ICT adoption by the Indian clusters is extremely low . The industry estimates that the ICT adoption among small business in India is less than 30 % , and if the IT firms in the SME segment are not considered , the number will be significantly less . For example , in Karnataka , the IT penetration is less than 1 % among the 700,000 small scale manufacturing firms . The main reasons for low adoption are :
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Developing Regions1115 1 . Reluctance to adopt technology : The first generation small firm owners are not technology savvy and are extremely apprehensive to adopt new technology .
2 . High cost of enterprise solutions and unsuitability for Indian markets : Current IT solutions from multi national vendors are mainly stripped down versions of the solutions of the developed world and do not satisfy the specific requirements of Indian business .
3 . Low level of telecom density , especially in rural and semi urban areas : Many clusters are located in semi urban areas or rural areas and therefore , cannot avail the benefits that communication can bring in . The telecom operators do not find it profitable to run business in these areas .
4 . Lack of funds : The small firms of India have significantly less funds compared to their counterparts of the western world and therefore , they cannot adopt any readily available solution used in the developed nations .
3 . BELLARY CLUSTER : A CASE STUDY
To understand the cluster requirements , we did a field study of Bellary Jeans cluster , located in north of Karnataka , India . Bellary consists of 800 small firms manufacturing jeans , which cater to the lower middle market segment of South India . The merchant manufacturers buy fabric from local and Mumbai dealers , divide the jeans making process into eight to ten operations ( eg , sewing , washing , etc . ) with each operation being outsourced to small firms , and package the final products for sale . Fig 1 describes the supply chain of the Bellary Jeans cluster [ 1 ] . This has been traditionally a very conservative cluster and suffers from multiple deficiencies : ( a ) lack of strong customer supplier relationship ( b ) low quality ( c ) lack of planning , ( d ) high lead time ( e ) informal practices . However , recently the business owners , due to the opportunities of doing business with established garment retailers and increasing competition from China , Bangladesh , etc , feel the need to address these issues through co operation , public private participation and formal linkages .
Figure 1 : Supply Chain at Bellary Jeans Cluster
We also found that the usage of computer is very limited and the solutions used are only stand alone accounting software . At present , the orders are procured informally and in an ad hoc manner . This affects the productivity and growth of the cluster immensely . There is a need for ubiquitous connectivity and formal integration of operations to improve the supply chain operations of the cluster . IT solutions like collaborative commerce can help the enterprises in the cluster to integrate processes and form an effective digital ecosystem [ 4 ] . The challenge is to build a cost effective ICT solution , which can be widely affordable and easily deployable within the cluster . Connectivity needs can be supported by building an operator less collaborative network ( Fig 2 ) , in which the cost of deployment can be largely reduced by sharing expensive resources like spectrum , networking equipments , computing resources , storage , etc . Enabling technologies should also facilitate distributed management , decentralized ownership and chaotic deployments .
SSE : Small Scale Enterprise MSE : Medium Scale Enterprise MR : Mesh Router client 4
SSE2
MSE2
SSE3
MSE3 client 3
MR2
MR1
SSE 1 client 2
INTERNET
MSE1 client 1
MR3
MSE4
MR4 client 5
SSE4 client 6
Figure 2 : Operator less Collaborative Network
4 . CONCLUSION
Here , we have brought into focus the importance of providing ICT solutions to the Indian business clusters . Currently , there exists a digital divide between the small firms of India and corresponding firms of the western world . Costeffective customized solutions are needed to suit the specific needs of small firms in these clusters . Building such solutions needs knowledge from several disciplines like communications , networking , economics , social science and electronic commerce .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank our colleague Sarita Seshagiri for her help dur ing the field study .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] United nations industrial development organization
( unido ) . In wwwsmeclustersorg
[ 2 ] P . Bianchi , L . M . Miller , and S . Bertini . The italian sme experience and possible lessons for emerging countries . In Executive Summary , UNIDO , March 1997 .
[ 3 ] T . Sarkar . ( Editor ) . Working together works : cluster case studies . Foundation for MSME Clusters , New Delhi , India , 2006 .
[ 4 ] A . Lavrin and M . Zelkoi . Knowledge Sharing in digital ecosystems for small and medium enterprises . In ISCC , Sardinia , Italy , June 2006 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Developing Regions1116
