Brand Awareness and the Evaluation of Search Results
Bernard J . Jansen
Technology
Mimi Zhang
Technology
College of Information Sciences &
College of Information Sciences &
The Pennsylvania State University
University Park , PA 16802 jjansen@acm.org
The Pennsylvania State University
University Park , PA 16802 mzhang@istpsuedu
Ying Zhang
College of Engineering
The Pennsylvania State University
University Park , PA 16802 yzz114@psu.edu
ABSTRACT We investigate the effect of search engine brand ( ie , the identifying name or logo that distinguishes a product from its competitors ) on evaluation of system performance . This research is motivated by the large amount of search traffic directed to a handful of Web search engines , even though most are of equal technical quality with similar interfaces . We conducted a laboratory study with 32 participants to measure the effect of four search engine brands while controlling for the quality of search engine results . There was a 25 % difference between the most highly rated search engine and the lowest using average relevance ratings , even though search engine results were identical in both content and presentation . Qualitative analysis suggests branding affects user views of popularity , trust and specialization . We discuss implications for search engine marketing and the design of search engine quality studies . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ 1 ] Information Search and Retrieval – Search process : Measurement , Experimentation , Human Factors General Terms : Performance , Design , Economics , Human Factors Keywords : Brand , Web searching , search engines 1 . INTRODUCTION Since its inception , there has been a rapid growth in the search engine market . Web search engines continue to attract large number of Web searchers , and they consistently rank as some of the heavily visited sites in the market in terms of the number of visitors . With thousands search engines on the Web , only a handful search engines dominate in terms of usage . Why ? Viewed from a technological perspective , this clustering is interesting because studies report that the performance of most major search engines is practically the same [ cf , 1 ] . Performance is defined as returning relevance results . Performance is measured by precision , which is the ratio of relevant documents to the total number of documents returned at some point in the results listing . The interfaces of most search engines are also similar , namely a text box , some verticals ( ie , tabs for searching the Web , Images , Audio , etc. ) , and some links to view result pages . With the similarity in terms of technology and interface design , why do only a small number of search engines dominant Web traffic ? Do other elements affect the evaluation of a search engine ’s performance ? Seeking the answers to these questions motivate our research .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
2 . REVIEW OF LITERATURE The interfaces of Web searching engines contain branding elements , such as logos , and names . A brand is the intangible sum of an organization ’s attributes , which can include an organization ’s name , history , reputation , and advertisement . A brand is also an identifying symbol , sign , or name that distinguishes an organization or a product from its competitors . Good branding can results in loyal customers . However , the effect of branding on technology design is not well studied . Park , Harada , and Igarashi [ 2 ] report that the users’ perceptions of a product ’s brand affect their perceptions of mental demand . While there may be some recognition that branding is important in the marketing of product , there has been little research into the brand effect on the evaluation of system performance . In this research , we measure the effect of brand perception on user perception of the performance of Web search engines . 3 . RESEARCH OJECTIVES Our research objective is : How does branding affect overall user evaluation of results retrieved by Web searching systems ? In order to address this research question , we designed a study that altered the brand of search engines for a set of queries while controlling for the quality and display of the results . 4 . RESEARCH DESIGN 4.1 Data Preparation We first extracted a set of e commerce queries from an approximately one and half million queries Web search engine transaction log using a modified snowball technique . From these queries , we selected four queries representing four searching domains : medical , entertainment , travel , and ecommerce . We developed searching scenarios around each of the four queries . The four queries used were : camping mexico , laser removal , manufactured home , and techo music . We then submitted these four queries to Google , a major US search engine using a software application that submitted the queries and retrieved the first search engine results page ( SERP ) for each query exactly as it would be presented to a human user . The total time from submission to completion of result retrieval took approximately 30 seconds . We then removed all identifying logos , text , URLs , and HTML code from the Google result pages . We removed the redirects in the results , so the URLs pointed directly to the targeted Web site . This left us with four cleaned results pages .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1139 Table 1 . Comparison of Average Precision Scores by Query and by Search Engine
Queries
Average Difference ( Average camping mexico laser removal manufactured home techo music
0.31 0.25 0.29 0.29 0.28
0.26 0.69 0.30 0.55 0.45
0.37 0.27 0.34 0.44 0.35
0.32 0.36 0.34 0.42 0.36
10.3 % 0.7 % 5.7 % 15.3 % 0.0 %
Search Engines AI2RS Google MSN Yahoo Average
0.35 0.26 0.44 0.39 0.36
We then got screen captures of SERPs from Google , MSN Live Search , and Yahoo! , all major and well known Web search engines , for each of the four queries . We developed an in house search engine , AI2RS , and got screen captures of the AI2RS results pages for each of the queries . Using the cleaned Google results and the images from the AI2RS , Google , MSN Live Search , and Yahoo! , we developed four experimental SERPs for each of the four queries . At the end of this process , we had sixteen experimental SERPs , four from each search engine for each of the four queries . Regardless of the search engine branding elements , the results were identical across all search engines for each query . 4.2 Study Procedure We recruited 32 participants from a major US university . The age range was 18 to 25 years . We presented each participant with all four queries scenarios , one at a time . Each participant completed one query before moving to the next . The moderator would read the applicable scenario before moving to the next query . We counterbalanced the order of search engines and the order of the searching scenarios to eliminate ordering effects . While the participant was searching , the moderator annotated utterances and user actions using an application designed for quantitative and qualitative data capture during Web searching studies . After the participant had completed all four query sessions , the moderator returned the participant to the first query , and the participant visited all Web pages for each query that the participant had not visited during the session . The participant evaluated the Web document and presented a basis for the evaluation . Approximately one hour was required to complete the sequence for each participant . 5 . RESULTS Returning to our research question ( How does branding affect overall user evaluation of results retrieved by Web searching systems? ) , results are shown in Tables 1 . Of all the search engines , Yahoo! had the overall best average precision of 042 This was 15.3 % better than the average of all four search engines . The overall average for all search engines over all queries was approximately 036 The spread among search engines was 25 % . The implications of these research findings give empirical weight to the notion that affective and cognitive user perceptions affect user interaction with systems and interactions . Therefore , product brand is an important usability variable in system design and evaluations . Apart from our quantitative results , our qualitative analysis show that users are sensitive about branding , and branding has various meanings . Branding denotes favorite , familiarity and popularity to users . When participants commented on their frequently used search engines , they said “ I am familiar with Google . ” ; “ Google is a pop culture terms ; this is why Google is so popular . ” ; “ I go to Yahoo! a lot for searches in English ” . Branding also indicates trust . As an example , when searching for medical information , the participant tried to explain why she checked some results rather than the others . She uttered “ Since this is about health issue , I will look for good Websites . I would go to a doctor or company that I have heard of and trust . ” The underlying intent of her words is that a doctor or company Website she has heard of before would have a good , trustworthy , and positive branding image . Branding also means specialization . When confronted with certain tasks , the users will immediately think about these sites . When seeing the branding elements of instant assumptions about what they are like . Websites like Amazon and eBay mean ecommerce . Searchers believe they need pay to get useful information . When talking about music , the users would think about iTune or Napster right away . On the other hand , the negative branding image has unfavorable effects and leads to the loss of trust from users . A participant told us that he never goes to AOL because “ AOL is inferior to the others in my mind . ” these sites , they make
6 . DISCUSSION Study findings show that branding as a perception of product has a dramatic effect on user ’s evaluation of system results . Performance evaluations varied by more than 25 % between the top most rated search engine and the bottom even though results were identical in both content and in presentation . It appears that even though Google is the most commonly used engine for searching , Yahoo! has a positive branding awareness . This may help explain why Yahoo! has endured and prospered in a competitive marketplace where so many other search engines ( ie , Excite , Northern Light , and Infoseek ) have come and gone . Future research involves quantitative and qualitative analysis of experimental data to tease apart the nuanced relationship between perception of performance and brand , and how to incorporate branding into the system design process . 7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The Air Force Office of Scientific Research supported portions of this research . We thank the study participants for their time . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Eastman , C . M . and B . J . Jansen , "Coverage , Ranking , and Relevance : A Study of the Impact of Query Operators on Search Engine Results," ACM Transactions on Information Systems , vol . 21 , pp . 383 411 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] Park , S . , A . Harada , and H . Igarashi , "Influences of personal in Proceedings of preference on product usability," Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems : CHI '06 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems , pp . 87 92 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1140
