Towards Extracting Flickr Tag Semantics
∗ Tye Rattenbury , Nathan Good , and Mor Naaman
{tye , ngood , mor}@yahoo inc.com
Yahoo! Research Berkeley
Berkeley , CA , USA
ABSTRACT We address the problem of extracting semantics of tags – short , unstructured text labels assigned to resources on the Web – based on each tag ’s metadata patterns . In particular , we describe an approach for extracting place and event semantics for tags that are assigned to photos on Flickr , a popular photo sharing website supporting time and location ( latitude/longitude ) metadata . The approach can be generalized to other domains where text terms can be extracted and associated with metadata patterns , such as geoannotated web pages .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.4 [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
Keywords tagging systems , event identification , place identification , word semantics
1 .
INTRODUCTION
User supplied “ tags ” , textual labels assigned to content , have been a powerful and useful feature in many social media and Web applications ( eg Flickr , delicious , Technorati ) . Tags usually manifest in the form of a freely chosen , short list of keywords associated by a user to a resource such as a photo , web page , or blog entry . Unlike categories or ontology based systems , tags result in unstructured knowledge – they have no a priori semantics . However , it is precisely the unstructured nature of tags that enables their utility . For example , tags are probably easier to enter than picking categories from an ontology ; tags allow for greater flexibility and variation ; and tags can naturally evolve to reflect emergent properties of the data .
Despite their lack of ontology and a priori semantics , tags exhibit patterns and trends [ 2 ] that allow some structured information to be extracted . The ability to assign structure to tags and tag based data will make tagging systems more useful .
Broadly , we are interested in the problem of identifying patterns in the distribution of tags over some domain ; in this work we focus on spatial and temporal patterns . Specifically ,
∗Nathan and Tye are also affiliated with UC Berkeley .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Figure 1 : Spatial ( top ) and temporal ( bottom ) distributions for the tag Hardly Strictly Bluegrass in the San Francisco Bay Area . we are looking at tags on Flickr [ 1 ] , a popular photo sharing web site with support for user contributed tags and georeferenced ( or , geotagged ) photos . Based on the temporal and spatial distributions of each tag ’s usage , we attempt to automatically determine whether a tag corresponds to a place and/or an event . For example , our method should detect that the tag Bay Bridge describes a place , and that the tag WWW2007 is an event . Tag usage distributions are derived from the distributions of photos . Figure 1 shows the spatial and temporal usage distribution for the tag Hardly Strictly Bluegrass in the San Francisco Bay Area .
Extraction of event and place semantics can assist many different applications in the photo retrieval domain and beyond . Benefits include : • improved image search through inferred query semantics ; • automated creation of place and event gazetteer data
( used to improve web search , for example ) ; and
• automated association of missing location/time metadata to photos , or other resources , based on tags or caption text .
In this work we do not apply our analysis to a specific application , but rather investigate the feasibility of automatically determining place and event semantics from Flickr tags .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1287 2 . GENERAL APPROACH
Our approach relies on the following three assumptions . First , that we have a set of tags whose semantics we are trying to determine . Second , that associated with each tag is a usage distribution over some dimension – eg the times when the tag was used . Third , we assume that the semantics we are trying to extract can be defined in relation to the dimension over which the tag ’s usage is distributed .
We will describe our approach to the extraction of semantics via the notions of events and places . We define event tags as tags whose usage distribution is expected to demonstrate significant temporal patterns . Similarly , place tags are tags whose usage distribution is expected to demonstrate significant spatial patterns .
One approach to identifying tags that correspond to events and places is to detect bursts of usage in space or time – ie , if the tag demonstrates a strong spatial or temporal burst of usage , then it is likely a place or an event , respectively . We tested two standard burst detection methods . The first , Na¨ıve Scan , was used to detect important query terms in web query logs [ 4 ] . The second , Spatial Scan , is used by epidemiologists to detect disease outbreaks [ 3 ] . The primary issue with these approaches is that while bursts are important , there is no check performed to ensure that only one burst has occurred . Specifically , these methods do not perform well when the data is sparse and contains multiple bursts ( see , for example , the spatial and temporal distributions for the tag Hardly Strictly Bluegrass in Figure 1 ) . To handle the issue of multiple bursts , we developed a novel method , Scale structure Identification ( or SSI ) . This method measures how similar the data is to a single cluster at multiple scales.1 For example , the tag Hardly Strictly Bluegrass appears as a single strong cluster at the city scale ; but appears as multiple clusters at a neighborhood scale ( see Figure 1 ) . SSI works by : ( 1 ) clustering the usage distribution for a tag at multiple scales ; ( 2 ) measuring the dispersion of usage occurrences among the clusters by calculating the information entropy ; and ( 3 ) summing the entropy calculations at each scale to produce a single score .
3 . EXPERIMENTS
To test each method ’s ability to identify place and event tags , we chose to focus on 49,896 Flickr photographs taken in the San Francisco Bay Area . From these photos we found 803 tags that were used at least 25 times and by at least 2 people . We compare the results of our automatic approaches to a hand labeled , ground truth – generated by a human judge who examined a subset of each tag ’s associated photos and captions . Photo and caption content enabled the human judge to generalize , correct , and interpolate inaccurate and sparse data .
With a ground truth data set , we can measure the effectiveness of the automatic approaches by calculating precision and recall . We define precision and recall for event identification ( the definitions for place identification are analogous ) . Each of our methods classifies the list of tags as an event tag or not . Given this classification , precision is the percentage of tags correctly labeled as event tags – ie precision is the number of tags correctly classified as event tags divided by the total number of tags classified as event tags .
1SSI handles periodic events by treating time as cyclical instead of linear .
Table 1 : Precision Recall Area , Maximum F1 , and Minimum CE values for the various methods .
Recall is the percentage of all event tags ( from the ground truth data ) that are correctly classified as event tags .
By varying the classification threshold associated with each method , we can cover all possible recall values . From the precision and recall measurements for each method , we can compute a number of standard scores : ( 1 ) the area under the precision recall curve ( P R area ) , ( 2 ) the maximum value of the F1 statistic ( Max F1 ) , a metric that balances precision and recall , and ( 3 ) the minimum total classification error ( Min CE ) . Results for the three methods , Na¨ıve Scan , Spatial Scan , and SSI , are shown in Table 1 . SSI clearly outperforms the standard burst detection methods on these metrics .
Errors produced by SSI have simple explanations . First , the majority of false positives and false negatives for place identification were the result of sparse data . For example , tags like drunk and sail were incorrectly classified as places while tags like UCSF and Mission District were incorrectly classified as not being places . Likewise the false positives for event identification were often due to sparse data . False negative event tags were also caused by bad data – noisy as opposed to sparse . For example , tags like thanksgiving and October were incorrectly classified as not being events .
4 . FUTURE WORK
The experiments presented in this paper correspond to data from the San Francisco Bay Area . We would like to extend our methods to the entire world , which will require some specification of “ regions of interest ” . For example , the tag carnival may be event like around Rio de Janeiro , but elsewhere in the world it is less likely to exhibit eventlike usage patterns . We plan to explore how to generate , store , and disambiguate tag semantics for different regions throughout the world . Additionally , we will look at extending the metadata features used , beyond location and time , to extract semantics other than place and event .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Flickrcom http://wwwflickrcom [ 2 ] A . Jaffe , M . Naaman , T . Tassa , and M . Davis .
Generating summaries and visualization for large collections of geo referenced photographs . In Proc . Multimedia , p . 89–98 . ACM Press , 2006 .
[ 3 ] M . Kulldorff . Spatial scan statistics : models , calculations , and applications . In Scan Statistics and Applications , p . 303–322 , 1999 .
[ 4 ] M . Vlachos , C . Meek , Z . Vagena , and D . Gunopulos .
Identifying similarities , periodicities and bursts for online search queries . In Proc . SIGMOD , p . 131–142 . ACM Press , 2004 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Social Networks1288
