Towards Multi granularity Multi facet E Book Retrieval
Chong Huang1 , Yonghong Tian2 , 3 , Zhi Zhou2 , Tiejun Huang1 , 2 , 3 1Graduate University , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100039 , China
2 Institute of Computing Technology , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100080 , China
3 Institute of Digital Media , Peking University , Beijing 100871 , China
1 , 2 , 3 {chuang , yhtian , zzhou , tjhuang}@jdlaccn
ABSTRACT Generally speaking , digital libraries have multiple granularities of semantic units : book , chapter , page , paragraph and word . However , there are two limitations of current eBook retrieval systems : ( 1 ) the granularity of retrievable units is either too big or too small , scales such as chapters , paragraphs are ignored ; ( 2 ) the retrieval results should be grouped by facets to facilitate user ’s browsing and exploration . To overcome these limitations , we propose a multi granularity multi facet eBook retrieval approach . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications – Data Mining General Terms Algorithms , Theory . Keywords Multi granularity , multi facet , e book retrieval .
1 . INTRODUCTION Typically , a digital book ( eBook ) has two kinds of structures : Hierarchy : it has multiple granularities of semantic units chapter , page , paragraph and word ; Hub : each eBook is a center surrounded by its facets of properties . However , current information retrieval ( IR ) systems have two limitations when applied to eBook retrieval . First , the granularity of retrievable units may be either too big or too small : a book or all matched words in it . In either case , it is too tiresome for a user to scan through the whole book or search in thousands of matched but off topic locations . Second , due to the abundance of results , grouping navigation is in need . To overcome these limitations , we propose a Multi granularity Multi facet E Book Retrieval ( MMER ) approach . The key to our solution is to extract facet related information from any granularity , organize them in knowledge networks with hierarchical and radial structure , and finally provide more retrievable units and group results by facets ( multi facet navigation ) . Moreover , because scores of difference granularity are interrelated , we define a multi granularity similarity metric , which can be used for multigranularity ranking in retrieval .
2 . MMER MMER relies on three key technologies : ( 1 ) accurate extraction algorithms for both full text and properties on any granularities ; ( 2 ) effective knowledge organization model to restore relations included , especially granularity related and facet related information ; ( 3 ) novel usage of these two kinds of information in retrieval . Multi granularity Information Extraction . The first issue we encounter is that only book level metadata is assigned by librari
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . ans . Thus , we developed modules to extract information from any granularity . First , we use rule based algorithm to separate a book into chapters or smaller granularities . Moreover , with the help of TOC files assigned by librarians , we extract the inter granularity “ belonging ” relation . Second , we extract facet related information properties of a text using some machine learning approaches . For example , in our previous work [ 2 ] , by treating a text as a semantic network , we extracted keyphrases with structural analysis on these networks and small world model . The result is promising . Multi granularity Information Organization . There are three kinds of relational knowledge organization model [ 1 ] : thesauri , knowledge networks , and ontology . Thesaurus is mostly restricted in lexical analysis and ontology is suitable for more formalized and proven knowledge with complex relationships . Thus , we organize information in knowledge networks .
Figure 1 . The structure of BookNet . The vertices in a dashed ellipse are of the same parent .
To represent hierarchical and hub like information for eBooks , we propose a Multi granularity Knowledge Network ( MKN ) model . MKN has two unique relations , namely , scaling and belonging to . The weights of these relations are manually assigned or learn from statistical models . Unlike traditional KN , MKN provides hierarchical browsing and facet based navigation , more accurate book similarity analysis ( with relevance ranking ) and more . Two similarity functions are defined to weight the relationships in MKN . A basic similarity function measures the multi facet similarity of two nodes in one granularity . Currently , we use a variation of cosine distance in VSM model as the basic function . Second , given difference granularities are interrelated , basic scores of related nodes on upper or lower levels are summarized with scaling weights as the final multi granularity score of two nodes . We also include indirect relationships with a decay factor on distance , by exploring the transitivity of the similarity function . Particularly , we construct two MKNs : BookNet and SubjectNet . Books are connected in BookNet by their multi facet similarity scores . Similarly , subjects are connected if they concur in the same book .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1331 Multi granularity multi facet IR . Based on knowledge in MKN , multi granularity multi facet IR approach returns results on both book and chapter level . It includes three key points ( as in Fig 2 ) :
Figure 2 . The GUI of our eBook retrieval system .
( 1)Facets grouping . Because of their common values in facets ( such as time , subject , etc. ) , eBooks are grouped by facets . Users can browse and re search with facets on the facet tree and panel . ( 2)Multi granularity relevance analysis . A book or a chapter is ranked into a list , according to their multi granularity similarity scores with the query . Users can access the chapters straightly . ( 3)Information visualization ( IV ) module . Related subjects are visualized in a network style as in SubjectNet . Introducing IV into query expansion helps users reformulate his/her query .
3 . A PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENT In this experiment , we evaluate the effectiveness of MMER in the retrieval on chapter level . Except the text length and user‘s labor in searching , we want to clarify whether chapter returns more relevant results . We select 544 books in a wide range . Three retrieval systems are implemented : Subject , a matcher of the query with subjects of books ; Fulltext , a full text matcher ; and Chapter , searches through extracted keyphrases from chapters as in [ 2 ] . To evaluate the effectiveness of IR system , precision and recall are usually used . However , in eBook retrieval , it is very tiresome to evaluate these two measure from all returned results and 544 books . Thus we use s@n , where s is the relevance score of a query and a book or a chapter ( only top n in consideration ) . It is more accurate than binary scored precision . Then we carry out a double blind user scoring . For practical limitations , we have 6 users , and they select totally 15 queries . Users score a result with 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 or 10 for relevance but no regard with the length of the result . We concentrate on three measures : Micro average s@10 , the average score of the top ten results for each query ; Number of results ( NR ) @10 , the number results of a query , playing a similar role as recall ; Macro average s@n , a relevance score inter query at a certain ranking position n . Result 1 : micro measures . Results indicate that chapter level has highest s@10 and NR@10 in most cases ( 9/15 and 10/15 respectively ) . In the table below , s(c ) and s(b ) stand for Mic s@10 in chapters and books returned by Chapter . The figures in bold are the top values in the row . Queries with an asteroid are duplicated . Regarding accuracy , theoretically , if assigned subjects are accurate and representative , Subject should have the highest scores . However , s(c ) of Chapter outperforms others in most occasions ( 9/15 ) . Reasons could be : ( 1 ) Librarians and the user hold different judgment on the topic ; ( 2 ) a keyword usually has different
Fulltext s meanings in different contexts ; ( 3 ) one highly related book usually possesses several highly related chapters . Second , Chapter has a comparative NR as Fulltext , which is significantly higher than Subject . Based on empirical observations , Fulltext should have the highest NR . Note that some books are returned only by Chapter ( low s(b ) but high s(c) ) , since some highly related chapters are in seemingly unrelated books . Together with accuracy , Chapter returns more relevant results . Table 1 . Micro s@10 and NR@10 for each query ( 5 out of 15 ) . Subject NR s NR 10 7 ± 2 10 10 8 ± 2 4 10 1 3 N/A 0 depression sculpture 1 Result 2 : macro measures . In the figure below , s(c ) outperforms ) . Also , s(c ) has a lowest variance . The others in all s@n ( trends of these lines differ when the n is growing bigger : Fulltext going down drastically ; the two lines of Chapter touch down a little and stay in a relatively steady way ; Subject has fluctuations with an increasing trend .
7.2 ± 2.7 5.6 ± 2.3 8.2 ± 1.8 6.3 ± 3.0 5.8 ± 3.7 6.4 ± 3.6 8.0 ± 2.0 5.3 ± 1.2 10.0 ± 0 10.0 ± 0 10
NR 3.0 ± 1.9 10 6.3 ± 2.7 10 5.2 ± 3.3 10 5.0 ± 1.4 10 7.0 ± 3.3 10 control education*
Chapter s(b )
2
10
Query health
10≤n s(c ) n @ s c a
M
8
7.5
7
6.5
6
5.5
5
4.5
4
Fulltext Chapter s(c ) Chapter s(b ) Subject
1
2
3
4
5
7
8
9
10
6 n 10≤n
Figure 3 . Macro average s@n(
) for all three systems . Result 3 : user variance . Thanks to the existence of common queries ( 3/15 ) of different user , we can further study the variance of their relevance judgment . We use a vector to represent the scores of a query . Then the variance between two users is the cosine value of their score vectors . The result is surprising . The cosines values are all very near 1 , which means they made similar judgments . Therefore , the scores in result 1 and result 2 are somehow objective and trustable .
4 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Our thanks to NSFC ( No . 60605020 ) and The 863 Project of China ( No . 2006AA01Z320 and No.2006AA010105 ) for funds .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Hodge , G . Systems of knowledge organization for digital libraries . Digital Library Federation , USA , 2000 .
[ 2 ] Huang , C . , Tian , Y . , Zhou , Z . , Ling , C . , Huang , T . Key phrase extraction using semantic networks structure analysis . In Proc . of the ICDM’06 , pp . 275 284 , Hongkong , 2006 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1332
