Understanding Web Search via a Learning Paradigm
Bernard J . Jansen , Brian Smith , Danielle L . Booth
College of Information Sciences and Technology
The Pennsylvania State University University Park , PA , 16801 , USA jjansen@acm.org , bsmith@istpsuedu , dlb5000@psu.edu
ABSTRACT Investigating whether one can view Web searching as a learning process , we examined the searching characteristics of 41 participants engaged in 246 searching tasks . We classified the searching tasks according an updated version of Bloom ’s taxonomy , a six level categorization of cognitive learning . Results show that Applying takes the most searching effort as measured by queries per session and specific topics searched per sessions . The lower level categories of Remembering and Understanding exhibit searching characteristics similar to the higher order learning of Evaluating and Creating . It appears that searchers rely internal knowledge for Evaluating and primarily on Creating , using searching primarily as fact checking and verification . Implications are that the commonly held notion that Web searchers have simple information needs may not be correct . We discuss the implications for Web searching , including designing interfaces to support exploration . their
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ 1 ] Information Search and Retrieval – Search process . General Terms Experimentation , Human Factors Keywords Information searching , Bloom ’s Taxonomy
1 . INTRODUCTION A common paradigm for analyzing Web searching is problem solving or decision making . Much information and Web searching research is intertwined with this view of searching as a decision making process . However , there is little empirical evidence supporting the relationship between information searching and problem solving [ 3 ] . We therefore explored other possible paradigms in which to view Web searching namely as a learning activity . In the following , we present a brief literature review , research questions , preliminary results , and implications for future Web searching systems . We conclude with our upcoming research aims and directions .
2 . REVIEW OF LITERATURE There is information searching literature that refers to an on going learning process while a person is engaged in information searching . However , there has been little research into how or
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8 12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 even if learning explicitly manifests itself in the searching process . Bloom ’s Taxonomy may be a method for investigating Web search as a learning process . Bloom ’s Taxonomy is a primary classification of learning in the cognitive domain [ 2 ] . An updated version , Anderson and Krathwohl ’s Taxonomy , redefined Bloom ’s original classification [ 1 ] . Anderson and Krathwohl ’s Taxonomy is a six tiered model for classifying learning according to cognitive levels of complexity .
3 . RESEARCH QUESTIONS Our research question is : Is a learning paradigm effective for analyzing information searching ? In order to analyze this question , we used Anderson and Krathwohl ’s re design of Bloom ’s taxonomy of learning in the cognitive domain to develop searching tasks for each of the six taxonomy ’s categories . We then analyzed the exhibited searching characteristics to detect if there were differences in exhibited searching behavior .
4 . METHODS We devised searching scenarios for each of the six levels of Anderson and Krathwohl ’s Taxonomy , with each scenario correlated to one of the classifications . The scenarios were pilot tested twice before we used them in the laboratory study . The six classifications with definitions [ 1 , p . 67 68 ] and searching scenarios are shown in Table 1 . Over the course of a week , 41 participants engaged in a laboratory study . Each participant engaged in six searching scenarios and instructed to address the scenarios , verify their answers . Each participant had access to an individual computer with Internet access . All user interactions with the computer were logged using logging software package . We analyzed a non inclusive participant standard characteristics of information searching using transaction log analysis as the methodological approach . accordance with interactions in
5 . RESULTS We investigated whether or not there would be a significant difference in ( 1 ) the number of queries and ( 2 ) the number of topics per session among the classifications in Anderson and Krathwohl ’s Taxonomy . A topic is the information focus of one or more queries . A searching session may have several topics . Using a one way ANOVA , our results indicate that there is a significant difference among the groups ( F(5 ) = 4.175 , p < 0.01 ) in terms of queries per session . Applying was significantly different then the classifications of Remembering , Understanding , Analyzing , and Evaluating ( p < 005 ) Applying was not significantly different in number of queries per session than Creating .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1207 Classification
Remembering
Understanding
Applying
Analyzing
Evaluating
Creating
Table 1 . Anderson and Krathwohl ’s Taxonomy with Searching Scenarios
List 5 movies directed by Steven Spielberg .
Scenario
Give a brief plot summary of the TV show , Veronica Mars .
What are some possible characteristics of a person who would enjoy trip hop music ? A certain television show contains intense violence and coarse language . Which rating should it receive ? Create a list of pros and cons for the new iPod Shuffle . Based off of this , would you purchase it ( assuming you had the money ) ? Why or why not ? Which do you think will have better overall sales the XBox 360 , the Nintendo Wii , or the Playstation 3 ? Why ?
Definition
Retrieving , recognizing , and recalling relevant knowledge from long term memory Constructing meaning from oral , written , and graphic messages through interpreting , exemplifying , classifying , summarizing , inferring , comparing , and explaining Carrying out or using a procedure through executing , or implementing Breaking material into constituent parts , determining how the parts relate to one another and to an overall structure or purpose through differentiating , organizing , and attributing Making judgments based on criteria and standards through checking and critiquing
Putting elements together to form a coherent or functional whole ; reorganizing elements into a new pattern or structure through generating , planning , or producing l e u a V n a e M
2.98
2.64
1.77
1.65
1.66
1.05
1
1.05
0.95
2.33
2.14
1.44
1.33
1.17
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Remembering
Understanding
Applying
Analyzing
Evaluating
Creating
Total
Anderson and Krathwohl's Taxonomy
Topics Per Session Queries Per Session
Figure 1 . Queries per Session and Topics Per Session . then
Concerning topics per session , an ANOVA analysis indicate that there is a significant difference among the groups ( F(5 ) = 6.869 , p < 001 ) Applying was significantly different the classifications of Remembering , Understanding , Analyzing , and Evaluating ( p < 005 ) Applying was not significantly different in number of topics per session than Creating . 6 . CONCLUSION Searching as learning is an appropriate paradigm to view Web searching . The implications of this study are that commonly held notions of Web searchers having simple information needs may be incorrect . Simple searching expressions may be supportive of higher level information needs at the Evaluating and Creating levels of learning . With this view , the goal of systems design shifts to one of not closing this uncertainty too quickly but instead accommodating exploring and formulating . We consider this an exploratory study to investigate whether learning is an appropriate paradigm to study Web searching . Along with further analysis of the existing date , we aim to conduct larger scale studies from to focus on required system design changes .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The Air Force Office of Scientific Research funded portions of this research . 8 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Anderson , L . W . and D . A . Krathwohl , A Taxonomy for
Learning , Teaching , and Assessing : A Revision of Bloom's Taxonomy of Educational Objectives . New York : Longman , 2001 .
[ 2 ] Bloom , B . S . and D . R . Krathwohl , Taxonomy of Educational
Objectives : The Classification of Educational Goals , by a Committee of College and University Examiners . Handbook 1 : Cognitive Domain . New York : Longmans , 1956 .
[ 3 ] Jansen , B . J . and M . D . McNeese , "Evaluating the
Effectiveness of and Patterns of Interactions with Automated Searching Assistance," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 56 , pp . 1480 1503 , 2005 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1208
