Spam and Popularity Ratings for Combating Link Spam
Mukesh Dalal
1533 Rio Grande St . , Davis , CA 95616 USA
MukeshDalal@gmailcom
ABSTRACT We present a new approach for propagating spam scores in web graphs , in order to combat link spam . The resulting spam rating is then used for propagating popularity scores like PageRank . Both propagations work even in presence of censure links that represent distrust . Initial testing using a C++ prototype on small examples show more reasonable results than other published approaches .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Search process . General Terms : Algorithms , Management , Design . Keywords : Search , Link spam , Trust , Distrust , PageRank , Web , WWW . 1 . INTRODUCTION Web spamming are dishonest practices that mislead search and indexing programs into giving undeserved search result rankings to web pages . We focus on link spamming [ 2 ] which takes advantage of link based ranking algorithms such as PageRank [ 1 ] that gives a higher ranking to pages that are linked from other highly ranked pages . An early approach to combat link spam introduced TrustRank [ 3 ] that , like PageRank , flows out through links from a set of manually identified trusted sites . In addition to trust , [ 5 ] also propagates distrust backward through links from a manually identified set of spam pages . Although trust and distrust propagation have also been studied in the more general context of reputation systems [ 4 ] , these notions are associated there with links , such as “ A trusts B ” and “ B distrusts C ” . To avoid confusion with this more common usage , we use spam and popularity scores for web pages , instead of trust and mistrust scores . Thus , TrustRank and PageRank are examples of popularity score , while the distrust score of [ 5 ] is an example of spam score . Just like in reputation systems , we also allow an optional trust value to be associated with each link . We make four contributions in this paper . First , we propose a new approach for propagating spam scores that seems to improve over other published approaches . Second , we leverage spam rating in propagating popularity scores . Third , we use optional trust value of links in both spam and popularity propagation . Fourth , we allow both positive and negative scores for spam , popularity and trust . We represent the link structure of the web ( web graph ) by the adjacency matrix M , where M[a , b ] is the sum of trusts of all links from page a to page b . In the absence of trust scores , M[a , b ] is 1 if there is a link from a to b , and 0 otherwise .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
2 . PROPAGATING SPAM SCORES The basic idea is that a page linking to other pages with high spam scores should also get a high spam score . Thus , spam scores should be propagated backward through links . This basic idea need to be refined in the following ways : 1 . Row normalization : A page should not get a higher spam score just because it links to more pages . Thus , the total trust of all outgoing links should be normalized across all pages to either 1 ( if there are outgoing links ) or 0 ( otherwise ) .
2 . Column normalization : Since spam score of a page flows backwards through all incoming edges , the total trust of all incoming links should be normalized across all pages ( again , either 1 or 0 ) . The matrix obtained from first row and then column normalization of M is called backward propagation matrix B . For example , the top right quadrant 1 0 ⎡ ⎢ 1 1 ⎣ of M for the adjoining web graph gets transformed
⎤ ⎥ ⎦ to
2/3 0 1/3 1
⎡ ⎢ ⎣
⎤ ⎥ ⎦ in B ; all other entries in M and B are 0 . Since c a
B determines the backward propagation , the spam score of Page c will flow double more to Page a than to Page b . We now argue that this is the most reasonable behavior . Suppose only Page c has been identified as a spam page , that is , with a high spam score . Now Page a links only to a spam page , while Page b links to a spam page and a possibly non spam page . Thus , Page a should get a higher spam score than Page b , consistent with our approach . Note that none of the other published approaches seem to provide this intuitively reasonable flow . b d reasons conceptual and mathematical
3 . Decay and bias : Just like the use of decay and bias ( for both like convergence ) in computing PageRank , propagation of spam scores uses spam decay factor β and spam bias ( column ) vector v . However , in contrast to the PageRank bias , a uniform spam bias is not at all useful . A nonuniform spam bias could be obtained from an a priori spam scoring of selected web pages , either manually or by using some automated approach , say , based on content analysis . We have obtained reasonable results for β between 0.3 and 09
I
B s )
β−
The spam rating s ( a column vector of spam scores ) based on this backward propagation is obtained by solving the system of equalities( = , where I is the N*N identity matrix and N is the number of pages . Since ( is a strictlydiagonally dominant matrix , the solution exists and can be calculated efficiently using PageRank style optimizations . The vector s is often rescaled so that the maximum value is 1 .
Bβ− v
I
)
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1199 3 . PROPAGATING POPULARITY Since a page linked from other pages with high popularity scores should get a high popularity score , popularity scores should be propagated forward through links . We augment this standard approach by using the spam score of a page to somewhat repel the flow of popularity to it . In general , a page with higher spam score will repel more , effectively sending that popularity to pages with lower spam scores . In particular , the flow of popularity is modified in two ways : 1 . Each entry in M[a , b ] in the adjacency matrix is multiplied by e s(b ) , where s(b ) is the scaled spam score of Page b . This transformation serves two purposes : trust in links to nodes with higher spam score is reduced more and negative spam scores are automatically handled . The resulting matrix is row normalized , as usual , to obtain the forward adjacency matrix F .
2 . Each entry u(a ) of the popularity bias ( column ) vector u is also multiplied by e s(b ) , for the same reasons as above . s
−
I
−
α u e = ∗ Fα− )T
The popularity rating p ( a column vector of popularity scores ) based on this forward propagation is obtained by solving the F p )T system of equalities ( , where α is the I popularity decay factor . Since ( is also a strictlydiagonally dominant matrix , the solution exists and can be calculated efficiently using PageRank style optimizations . We have obtained reasonable results with α between 0.3 and 0.9 ( just like β ) . 4 . CENSURE LINKS & NEGATIVE BIAS Typical propagation approaches treat links as endorsement , that is , a link from page a to b is considered an endorsement of page b by a , except for one special case : links with attribute rel= “ nofollow ” are ignored by many search engines , as if those links do not exist . However , there is currently no way to create links that censure other pages , that is , provide negative endorsement . Such censure links would allow , for example , page a to link to page b identifying b as a spam site . We allow censure links by using negative trust values ; the positive trust values represent regular endorsement links , while trust value of 0 represents “ nofollow ” links . While such negative trust links expressing distrust are often used in the more general reputation systems , they have not been used in spam or popularity propagation through web graphs . We also allow negative values in both spam and popularity bias vectors . A negative spam bias represents a prori ( possibly manual ) determination of a quality node , while the interpretation of a negative popularity bias is not yet clear . Interestingly , the spam and popularity propagation approaches described above continues to work for censure links and negative biases . Intuitively , a censure link to page a is treated as an endorsement link to a hypothetical page whose score ( spam and popularity ) is negative of a ’s score . However , we make a minor modification to allow optional discounting of censure links in propagating popularity . In particular , each negative value in adjacency matrix M is first multiplied by the negative discount factor δ ( between 0 and 1 ) in obtaining the forward propagation matrix F . This discounting prevents several popular pages to group together to maliciously demote another page .
5 . A TOY EXAMPLE We now present a complete example the computation of spam and popularity ratings . Consider the adjoining web graph illustrate to a b c with adjacency matrix M =
0 1 1 0 1 0
⎡ ⎢ ⎢ ⎢ ⎣
0.5 0.8 − 0
⎤ ⎥ ⎥ ⎥ ⎦
, vector T spam bias
1 0 0 T [ ] v=
, popularity bias u
⎡ ⎤ 1 1 1 = ⎣ ⎦
, spam decay factor β=0.3 , popularity vector decay factor α=0.85 , and negative discount factor δ=05 Note that the link from page b to c is a censure link and that page a has been a priori identified as a spam node .
The backward propagation matrix B then is
0
1 ⎡ ⎢ .357 0 ⎢ ⎢ .643 0 ⎣
.429 ⎤ ⎥ .571 − ⎥ ⎥ 0 ⎦ and the rescaled spam rating . Note that b has a low spam score partly due to the censure link . The
⎡ 1 0.074 0.193 = ⎣
⎤ ⎦ s
T forward propagation matrix F is
0 ⎡ ⎢ .849 ⎢ ⎢ 1 ⎣
.64 0 0
.36 ⎤ ⎥ .151 − ⎥ ⎥ 0 ⎦ and the rescaled popularity rating p
⎡ = ⎣
0.864 1 0.26
T
⎤ ⎦
.
6 . CONCLUSIONS We have developed a C++ prototype for propagating spam and popularity scores , and have tested it on several published examples with reasonable results . However , we still need to test and validate this approach on large realistic web graphs . Using negative trust scores may invite retaliation from censures pages . Thus , it is important to develop approaches for providing anonymous trust scores . Also , web pages should be encouraged to provide trust scores for links , probably by incorporating “ percentage rated ” in spam or popularity scores . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Brin , S . and Page , L . The Anatomy of a Large Scale
Hypertextual Web Search Engine . WWW7 / Computer Networks , 30 ( 1 7 ) . 107 117 , 1998 .
[ 2 ] Gyongyi , Z . and Garcia Molina , H . Web Spam Taxonomy .
First International Workshop on Adversarial Information Retrieval on the Web , 2005 .
[ 3 ] Gyongyi , Z . , Garcia Molina , H . and Pedersen , J . Combating
Web Spam with Trustrank . Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases ( VLDB ) , 2004 .
[ 4 ] Jøsang , A . , Ismail , R . and Boyd , C . A Survey of Trust and Reputation Systems for Online Service Provision . Decision Support Systems , 2005 .
[ 5 ] Wu , B . , Goel , V . and Davison , BD , Propagating Trust and
Distrust to Demote Web Spam . Workshop on Models of Trust for the Web , Edinburgh , Scotland , 2006 .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : Search1200
