GeoTV : Navigating Geocoded RSS to Create an IPTV
Experience
Yih Farn Chen , Giuseppe Di Fabbrizio , David Gibbon , Rittwik Jana , Serban Jora ,
Bernard Renger , Bin Wei
AT&T Labs Research
180 Park Ave
Florham Park , NJ , 07932
+1 973 360 8653
{chen , pino , dcg , rjana , jora , renger , bw}@researchattcom
ABSTRACT The Web is rapidly moving towards a platform for mass collaboration in content production and consumption from three screens : computers , mobile phones , and TVs . While there has been a surge of interests in making Web content accessible from mobile devices , there is a significant lack of progress when it comes to making the web experience suitable for viewing on a television . Towards this end , we describe a novel concept , namely GeoTV , where we explore a framework by which web content can be presented or pushed in a meaningful manner to create an entertainment experience for the TV audience . Fresh content on a variety of topics , people , and places is being created and made available on the Web at breathtaking speed . Navigating fresh content effectively on TV demands a new browsing paradigm that requires fewer mouse clicks or user interactions from the remote control . Novel geospatial and temporal browsing techniques are provided in GeoTV that allow users the capability of aggregating and navigating RSS enabled content in a timely , personalized and automatic manner for viewing in an IPTV environment . This poster is an extension of our previous work on GeoTracker that utilizes both a geospatial representation and a temporal ( chronological ) presentation to help users spot the most relevant updates quickly within the context of a Web enabled environment . We demonstrate 1 ) the usability of such a tool that greatly enhances a user ’s ability in locating and browsing videos based on his or her geographical interests and 2 ) various innovative showing RSS enabled for information in an IPTV environment . Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ Communication Applications ] : Information Browsers . General Terms Experimentation , Human Factors , Languages . interface designs
Keywords RSS , IPTV , geospatial tagging , blog , multimedia .
1 . INTRODUCTION RSS ( Really Simple Syndication ) [ 1 ] technologies and web logs ( aka blogs ) have helped transform the Web into a service platform that allows normal Web users to compete with
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . for traditional news media timely content publication , aggregation , and delivery . However , there is a significant lack of progress when it comes to presenting similar information to TV viewers . Web users are equipped with various browsing capabilities , while TV users have traditionally been limited to a remote control and a fixed set of channels . This restriction is a significant barrier towards providing a seamless experience to access the same Web content on three screens : computers , mobile phones , and TVs . In general , the inquisitive nature of users point to the fact that they are not satisfied with simply finding out about X , but are also interested in finding out what ’s new about X , whether X is a person , a place , an event , a topic , or any entity . And users’ intentions should not be restricted by the media they are using , whether it is a computer monitor or a TV screen . In this poster , we present GeoTV , a framework for aggregating and visualizing RSS feeds in a geospatial and temporal manner suited for a television experience , a major departure from the traditional text based newspaper layout , which is still the dominant style on most web sites . Our contributions are specifically ( a ) Presenting innovative interfaces of geocoded RSS data along both geospatial and temporal dimensions for a TV experience and ( b ) Conducting usability studies for such interfaces . 2 . RSS Navigation Navigating RSS content is typically performed today on the Web using RSS aware programs called readers . They are usually available as stand alone programs or extensions to web browsers ( plugins ) . The readers fetch recent updates periodically from a list of user subscribed sites and alert the users accordingly . A user is typically notified of recent updates by means of a popup window showing a short textual description of the RSS item . By geolocating RSS , we mean associating RSS items on a world map where we perform reverse mapping of each story to one or more locations . The reader to our previous work , GeoTracker [ 2 ] , for more details . In this poster , we extend some of these ideas for the IPTV environment and show some innovative user interfaces specifically designed for the TV audience . 2.1 RSS Navigation on the Web With a user profile that stores the user ’s interests , we can personalize a user ’s browsing or viewing experience by highlighting events and presenting associated multimedia items that match his or her geographic interests . For example , Figure 1 shows the locations that correspond to Yahoo top news items using the GeoTracker Web interface . Yahoo generates RSS feeds segmented by categories , one of which corresponds to breaking is referred
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1323 news items . The interface allows users to zoom in and out of any area and to pan from one side to the other easily . The zoom and pan features are capabilities that we inherit from Google Maps . Many such mashup websites using the same Google API [ 3 ] are now available . Clicking on the pin on Mexico leads a user to the recent Yahoo news page on Mexico , as shown in Figure 1 . These traditional point and click operations are difficult to reproduce with a remote control for a TV .
Baghdad story with an inset picture in picture of a news item from Berlin . U Bar : Personalized Blogs and Map Integration
As another example , Figure 3 illustrates the concept of integrated blogs and geomapping . Often , as information is presented on a news site , the real time dynamics on how the event and public opinions evolved over time is lost . With the introduction of RSS , a dynamic presentation can offer the realism of experiencing a breaking news event . This example shows the geomap of the famous head butting incident of Zidane . As this incident was unfolding , blog sites were capturing comments from across the world . The integration is illustrated in the form of a U shaped bar where the blog opinions ( compiled based on the user ’s profile ) are updated and aligned on the left of the geomap ( after a user profile is selected ) while the bottom shows the selected RSS feed being mapped . Relevant images from various blogs are also shown to the right of the map .
Figure 1 Geolocation of international top stories from Yahoo RSS feeds using GeoTracker web interface
Figure 2 Web content displayed on TV with varying importance 2.2 RSS Navigation on TV Figure 2 shows an alternative representation by listing the hot spots ordered by freshness or frequency . As a TV user may not be able to point to a location with a mouse , this interface allows the user to simply select a number or scroll using his remote to obtain a video ( if available ) corresponding to that location and to obtain associated RSS text as a ticker on the bottom of that video feed ( when available ) . We focus on the capability of allowing a user to browse hot spots by scrolling down the side bar locations listing . Navigation is enabled using either a remote control or a software control ( see bottom right ) . The image shows a snapshot of a
Figure 3 The U Bar concept – a personalized integrated blog and map 2.3 Usability Study of GeoTV Finally , we have on going usability studies on GeoTV and we will present results of those studies in the poster presentation . TV users are accustomed to motion in the interface , hence it is recommended to incorporate dynamic elements in the interface . WebTV used a proxy filtering architecture , which took care of cursor control and highlighting [ 4 ] . Unfortunately , the new generation , such as Microsoft ’s Media Center Edition/IPTV , does not provide this capability , thus requiring applications to take care of the complexity . We propose an automated panning and zooming effect ( a two dimensional translational mapping ) to allow the user to view map regions of interest in detail in a leanback consumption modality . This would be one way to overcome the low screen resolution limitations ( eg , 240 lines for interlaced standard definition NTSC ) . 3 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] B . Hammersley , “ Content syndication with RSS ” , O’Reilly ,
April 2003 .
[ 2 ] Y . Chen , G . Di Fabbrizio , D , Gibbon , R , Jana , S . Jora , B .
Renger , B . Wei . , “ GeoTracker : Geospatial and temporal RSS navigation ” , in Proceedings WWW 2007 , Banff , Canada , May , 2007 .
[ 3 ] http://wwwprogrammablewebcom/tag/mapping [ 4 ] J . Nielsen , “ WebTV usability review ” , http://wwwuseitcom/alertbox/9702ahtml
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : User Interfaces and Accessibility1324
