The Use of XML to Express a Historical Knowledge Base
Katsuko T . Nakahira Nagaoka University of
Technology
1603 1 Kamitomiokamachi Nagaoka , Niigata , Japan
Masashi Matsui
Nagaoka University of
Technology
1603 1 Kamitomiokamachi Nagaoka , Niigata , Japan
Yoshiki Mikami
Nagaoka University of
Technology
1603 1 Kamitomiokamachi Nagaoka , Niigata , Japan katsuko@vosnagaokautacjp
065367@misnagaokautacjp mikami@kjsnagaokautacjp
ABSTRACT Since conventional historical records have been written assuming human readers , they are not well suited for computers to collect and process automatically . If computers could understand descriptions in historical records and process them automatically , it would be easy to analyze them from different perspectives . In this paper , we review a number of existing frameworks used to describe historical events , and make a comparative assessment of these frameworks in terms of usability , based on ( cid:672 ) deep cases ( cid:673 ) of Fillmore ( cid:671)s core grammar . Based on this assessment , we propose a new description framework , and have created a microformat vocabulary set suitable for that framework . Categories and Subject Descriptors H23 [ Languages ] : Data description languages General Terms Experimentation Keywords historical knowledge representation , XML , RDF , microformats 1 .
INTRODUCTION
There are many records related to history available on the Web , such as scientific papers and databases dealing with history or chronological tables . The descriptions in these records are not designed with the aim of allowing computers to understand or collect data automatically . If information about historical events could be collected and converted into a reusable form automatically , history could be analyzed from a wider range of perspectives than is possible today .
There have been attempts to develop frameworks or languages to describe historical knowledge . In Japan , the Technical Committee on Electrical Technology History of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan , created a database on the history of electrical power system technology[1 ] , and developed the Historical Space Modeling Language ( HSML ) and a GUI called Mandala for browsing historical information written in HSML[2 ] .
The Historical Event Markup and Linking ( HEML ) Project[3 ] is developing its own XML schema designed for historical description , and a Web application that displays chronological tables and does mapping in a variety of formats .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 .
Table 1 : Fillmore ( cid:671)s deep cases [ 6 ]
Case
Agentive
Experiencer
Instrumental
Objective
Source
Goal
Locative
Time
Description Role of the person who causes a certain action Role of the person who expreiences a psychological phenomenon Role that is a direct cause of an event or that stimulates a reaction in relation to a psychological phenomenon Moving object or changing object . Or , role that expresses the content of a psychological phenomenon , such as judgement or imagination The starting point from which the object moves , and the role that expresses the original state or shape when the state or shape changes The goal that the object reaches , and the final state or result when the state or shape changes Role of expressing the location when an event occures Role of expressing the time when an event occurs
The Dublin Core Metadata Initiative[4 ] has developed a framework for writing metadata for published documents . In the field of historical documents , there is an attempt[5 ] by the National Museum of Japanese History to map items in a history research database onto the vocabulary of Dublin Core . In this way , there have been a variety of attempts to describe history or historical events available on the Web .
Although a variety of languages and formats have been developed for historical description as mentioned above , there are few that can handle causal relations . Among those mentioned above , only the set of HSML and Mandala can handle them . However , since HSML cannot be used without an HSML interpreter , it is not as readily usable as the Resource Description Framework ( RDF ) , which is now widely used . This paper describes an attempt to develop a generic description format . 2 .
ITEMS OF DESCRIPTION TO BE STUDIED
This paper uses deep cases in Fillmore(cid:671)s case grammar as our underlying framework for studying the items of description suitable for historical events . A deep case indicates the role an individual word plays vis a vis the verb . Any historical event can be associated at least with a subject and an action it takes . Therefore , we consider that the framework based on the concept of deep cases provides the widest range of description items regarding an event description . The eight cases given by Fillmore ( cid:671)s deep case concept are shown in Table 1 .
When the eight cases are applied to the description of his
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : XML1345 Table 2 : Proposed microformat vocabulary set
Classification
Case
Element
Attribute
Event Time
Objective
Time
Not specified Not specified class class
Value event start date
Not specified class end date
Location
Location
Free class location
Participant
Agentive
Evidence
Cause
Instrumental a a a rel rel rel participant evidence cause
Item
Location
Data type event name ending date ending date location name ending dat title attribute Starting date name within element title attribute Starting date name within element title attribute within element title attribute title attribute href attribute title attribute href attribute title attribute href attribute participant ’s name participant ’s URL evedence name evidence URL cause name cause URL character string character string date character string date character string date character string
URL character string
URL character string
URL torical events , they can be described as follows . The agentive case refers to the entity that caused an event . This entity may be an individual or an organization . The instrumental case corresponds to the cause of an event that occurred . The objective case applies to the object to which an event occurred , but its nature depends on the nature of the event . For example , when a new technology is being developed , the technology is the objective case . The location case corresponds to the place where an event occurred while the time case indicates the time when an event occurred . Since an event can be said to be expressed in direct discourse , the experiencer case does not exist . It is more difficult to interpret what the source case and the goal case represent . Unlike time or place , whether there are starting and goal points depends greatly on the nature of event ( verb ) . Therefore , in this paper , we assume that no roles exist that correspond to the source or goal case for an event .
Consequently , we consider that a historical event may be defined by five elements : person , cause , object , location and time . 3 . CONSIDERATION OF THE DESCRIPTION
METHOD
We use microformats[7 ] for the description of metadata within an item of content . Microformats give a certain name to an attribute of the XHTML text to enable metadata to be extracted from a document . Microformats make use of the attribute values provided in the XHTML grammar . An advantage is that , even when our approach is applied to the existing content , almost no change to its structure is required . This advantage led us to choose to use microformats because we are considering the application of our approach to existing descriptions of historical events .
Based on Table 1 , we have created the microformat vocabulary shown in Table 2 . In parallel with this effort , we have created a microformat XSLT that extracts metadata and converts it to a Resource Definition Format ( RDF ) . 4 . PROTOTYPING
We have marked up documents on the history of technology using the microformat vocabulary mentioned above , and displayed marked up events on a SIMILE Timeline . Specifically , we have marked up(cid:672 ) the Development of Electronic Computers in the World in their Early Days(cid:673)and(cid:672 ) the Development of Electronic Computers in Japan in their Early Days(cid:673 ) , both reports published by the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan .
First , we marked up the documents using the defined vocabulary . Then , using the XSLT associated with these documents , we extracted events from the documents , and obtained RDF data that describes the events . Finally , we converted the RDF data into the data format of the displaying application used ( Timeline in our case ) , and displayed the data . Timeline[8 ] is an Ajaxy Widget for displaying a timeline , developed by the SIMILE Project . The data of Timeline is written in XML using its own vocabulary . Therefore , if we develop an
XSLT that directly converts microformats into the Timeline format , it would be possible to derive Timeline data from the documents . We did not adopt this approach and instead converted microformats to RDF formats and then into the Timeline format . This is because we did not want to tune our method to a specific display format , since we were seeking to allow a variety of display formats .
This prototyping has confirmed that the extracted events can indeed be mapped on the timeline . 5 . CONCLUSION
In order to create a framework for describing historical events , we have developed a unique description framework based on the deep cases in Fillmore ( cid:671)s case grammar . We have created microformat vocabulary suitable for this framework . Our future studies include the development of a tool that displays , in an intuitional manner , events marked up using the above vocabulary .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Technical Committee on Electrical Technology History ,
Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan Technical Report , 991 , pp . 9 11(2004 ) .
[ 2 ] Y . Matsumoto , A . Yamada , An association based management of reusable software components , Annals of Software Engineering , 5 , pp . 317 347(1998 ) .
[ 3 ] B . G . Robertson , Visualizing an Historical Semantic Web with HEML , Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on WWW , pp . 1051 1052(2006 ) .
[ 4 ] Dublin Core Metadata Initiative[Online ] , Available at : http://purloclcorg/dc/ ( January 2007 )
[ 5 ] Fumio Adachi , Study on Mapping of Historical Research
Databases to Dublin Core Metadata , SIG Technical Report , 2006(112 ) , pp . 15 23(2006 ) .
[ 6 ] Makoto Nagano , Natural language processing , Iwanami Shoten
Publishers ( 2005 )
[ 7 ] Rohit Khare , Tantek Celik , Microformats : a Pragmatic Path to the Semantic Web , Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on WWW , pp . 865 866(2006 ) [ 8 ] SIMILE timeline . [ Online ] , Available at : http://similemitedu/timeline/ ( January 2007 ) .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : XML1346
