XML Based Multimodal Interaction Framework for Contact
Center Applications
Nikolay Anisimov , Brian Galvin , Herbert Ristock
Genesys Telecommunication Laboratories ( an Alcatel Lucent Company )
2001 Junipero Serra Dr . , Daly City , CA 94014 , USA Tel . : +1 650 466 1347
{anisimov,bgalvin,herbertr}@genesyslab.com including VoiceXML
ABSTRACT In this paper , we consider a way to represent contact center applications as a set of multiple XML documents written in different markups and CCXML . Applications can comprise a dialog with IVR , call routing and agent scripting functionalities . We also consider ways how such applications can be executed in run time contact center environment . Categories and Subject Descriptors H51 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Multimedia Information Systems Audio input/output , hypertext navigation and maps . H53 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Group and Organization Interfaces Web based Interaction . General Terms Documentation , Standardization , Languages . Keywords Call center , contact center application , VoiceXML , Call Control XML , call routing , agent scripting .
1 . INTRODUCTION Contact centers ( CC ) play a very important role in contemporary business . According to some estimations [ 3 ] 70 % of all business interactions are handled in contact centers . In the US , the number of all contact center workers is about 4 million or 2.5 3 % of the US workforce . Creating business applications in contemporary Contact Centers is a very complex task . Indeed , typical CC applications comprise Interactive Voice Response ( IVR ) scripts , routing strategies , call control , agent scripting , reporting , etc . Each of these functions has its dedicated tools and scripting languages and a CC application designer is required to be proficient in all of them . The heterogeneous structure of CC applications is a challenge also because many of the applications , such as routing strategies , are also strongly platform dependent . Since most of the leading contact center applications remain proprietary , it is quite common that applications developed for a specific contact center product cannot be easily transferred to another one . A proven way of achieving application uniformity , platform independence , and simplification of the task of creating business applications is to employ XML based standards and related
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2007 , May 8–12 , 2007 , Banff , Alberta , Canada . ACM 978 1 59593 654 7/07/0005 . technologies . XML is increasingly used as a basis for building applications in different vertical businesses . Good examples of XML based standards for voice processing are the VoiceXML [ 5 ] and Call Control XML [ 2 ] protocols developed within W3C . They enable representation of any voice application as an XML document , and using VoiceXML and CCXML it is already possible to build simple CC applications involving only IVR ( including automatic speech recognition capabilities ) processing and simple call control and to represent them as a single XML document . The main advantages are obvious : uniformity , platform independence , and leveraging web technologies . However , VoiceXML and CCXML do not address other important aspects of CC applications such as interaction workflow/service chain management ( the process management task specialized in customer interaction management ) , interaction routing , scripting agent activities , reporting on agent ( sometimes called customer service representatives – CSR ) performance and traffic management , using customer profiles , conducting outbound campaigns , and interactions that are conducted in media other than voice . In [ 1 ] we proposed some ways of extending the VoiceXML and CCXML approach in order to provide coverage for additional important contact center functionality . We proposed a methodology that is open to incremental extensions and that presents basic interaction management concepts such as platform and application , multi script and multi browsing , and interaction data processing without attempting a comprehensive top down standard . In this position paper we consider a contact center application within W3C Multimodal Interaction framework [ 4 ] . According to this approach , CC application can be represented as a set of XML documents with different namespaces . We also consider how it can be executed in typical CC environment . In this paper we focus on main concepts and principles rather than specific XML languages .
2 . MULTIMODAL FRAMEWORK Agent involvement in a contact with a customer can be considered from web perspective , see Figure 1 . One could think of it as the CSR playing the role of a browser “ rendering ” agent script dialog instructions written in HTML . Similar to VoiceXML an agent script specifies a dialog with a customer but in different terms . Moreover , CSRs usually use additional knowledge acquired during training process and sometime referred to as skills .
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : XML1349 We can consider such an environment as another modality or more strictly as another implementation of voice modality . The main difference here is that a CSR browser should be found before starting the browsing session . Moreover , the CSR should have appropriate skills and be available ( not busy ) . This searching logic can be expressed in an XML based form as routing strategy , see previous section .
Figure 1 : Agent as a voice browser
The CSR environment can be considered as a special case of W3C Multimodal architecture [ 4 ] . In this architecture , VoiceXML and Agent scripts play the role of markup languages for modality components . CCXML and XML strategy are markup languages for controller and interaction management .
3 . APPLICATION STRUCTURE We consider structure of CC application using typical application with IVR and agent involvement . 3.1 Design Time View The application can be designed as a set of four XML documents , see Figure 2 . The root document is written in CCXML which plays the role of interaction manager markup .
Figure 2 : Application Structure
This document contains logic of call control . It is activated when a call arrives into CC . After that it invokes a presentation document with IVR script that is written in presentation markup VoiceXML . This document controls a spoken dialog with a customer that may collect needed information . After the end of the dialog , this information is returned to the call control script . Based on this information the application starts searching for the most appropriate CSR invoking routing strategy script . The script is written in a markup called XStrategy [ 1 ] . It returns the address of the most appropriate available CSR . Then the call is transferred to this CSR workplace . A corresponding agent application written in XAgent markup is then activated which helps CSR to talk to the customer .
3.2 Run Time View The run time view of the CC application is depicted in Figure 3 . The contact center environment comprises several application servers , each being responsible for a particular function of contact center operation . The call control part of application is executed by CTI Server that connects telephony and computer domains .
Figure 3 : Run time view
All application servers and workstations are connected via LAN and synchronized by event exchange .
4 . CONCLUSION In this paper we introduced main concepts that we believe will be important for a comprehensive and consistent scripting of all contact center functions . In particular , we considered W3C Multimodal Interaction Framework as a suitable approach for CC application design and execution . Our future plans include the incorporation of applicable existing XML specifications and the development of XML languages for specific areas of contact centers .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Anisimov N . , Galvin B . , Ristock H . XML based Framework for Contact Center Applications . In : Filipe J . et al ( Eds ) . Proc . of 3rd Int . Conf . on Web Information Systems and Technologies ( WEBIST 2007 ) , Barcelona , Spain , 3 6 March , 2007 . Vol . 1 , 443 450 .
[ 2 ] CCXML . Voice Browser Call Control : Version 10 W3C
Working Draft , June 29 , 2005 . http://wwww3org/voice/ [ 3 ] Gans N . , Koole G . , Mandelbaum A . Telephone Call Centers : Tutorial , Review and Research Prospects , Manufacturing and Service Operations Management , 2003 , vol.5 , no.2 , 79–141
[ 4 ] Multimodal Architecture and Interfaces . W3C Working
Draft , December 11 , 2006 . http://wwww3org/TR/2006/WD mmi arch 20061211/
[ 5 ] VoiceXML . Voice Extensible Markup Language . Version
20 W3C Recommendation , March 16 , 2004 . http://wwww3org/voice
WWW 2007 / Poster PaperTopic : XML1350
