2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining 2008 Eighth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining
WiFIsViz : Effective Visualization of Frequent Itemsets
∗ Carson Kai Sang Leung
Pourang P . Irani
Christopher L . Carmichael
The University of Manitoba , Winnipeg , MB , Canada
{kleung , irani , umcarmi1}@csumanitobaca
Abstract
Frequent itemset mining plays an essential role in the mining of many different patterns . Most existing frequent itemset mining algorithms return the mined results— namely , frequent itemsets—in the form of textual lists . However , the use of visual representation can enhance the user understanding of the inherent relations in a collection of frequent itemsets . In this paper , we propose an effective visualizer , called WiFIsViz , to display the mined frequent itemsets . WiFIsViz provides users with an overview and details about the itemsets . Moreover , this visualizer is also equipped with several interactive features for effective visualization of the frequent itemsets mined from various real life applications . 1 . Introduction
Frequent itemset mining [ 1 , 10 , 12 , 13 , 14 ] aims to search for implicit , previously unknown and potentially useful information—in the form of frequently occurring patterns—that might be embedded in data . It is in demand in many real life applications , and it also plays an essential role in the mining of many patterns other than frequent itemsets ( eg , maximal itemsets , closed itemsets , association rules , correlations , sequences , episodes ) . This explains why we have witnessed numerous studies in the area of frequent itemset mining over the last decade . However , most of theses studies return a collection of mined frequent itemsets in textual form ( eg , a very long list of frequent itemsets ) . Consequently , users may not easily see the useful information that is embedded in the data .
The common clich´e that “ a picture is worth a thousand words ” advocates the use of visual representation and visualization techniques [ 7 , 8 , 18 ] . Showing a collection of frequent itemsets in graphical form can help users understand the nature of the information and show the relations embedded in the data . Hence , to assist users in gaining insight into massive amounts of data or information , researchers have developed various systems for visualizing data [ 4 , 16 ] and for visualizing the mining results ( eg , clusters [ 9 ] , decision trees [ 2 ] , social networks [ 3 ] , association rules [ 5 , 6 , 17] ) .
Recently , we proposed a frequent itemset visualizer called FIsViz [ 11 ] . It represents frequent k itemsets as polylines connecting k nodes ( where each node represents an
∗
Corresponding author : CK S Leung b c d e a e
HHHH e
XXHHHH e @
@ u a e b c d e e
HHHHHHHH
XX e @
@ u u
Figure 1 . Polylines showing {a , c , d} & {b , c , e} vs . polylines showing {a , c , e} & {b , c , d} . u item in the k itemset ) in a two dimensional space . The locations of the polylines indicate the frequencies ( or support ) of the frequent itemsets . As a result , FIsViz enables users to visualize the mining results—specifically , frequent itemsets—for many real life applications . However , in some other applications ( especially , when the number of frequent itemsets is huge ) , users may require more efforts to be able to visualize frequent itemsets . The problem is caused by the use of polylines for representing frequent itemsets . To elaborate , the polylines can be bent and/or can cross over each other . This makes it difficult to distinguish one polyline ( representing an itemset ) from another . For example , in Figure 1 , how could one easily distinguish itemsets {a , c , d} & {b , c , e} from itemsets {a , c , e} & {b , c , d} ? Hence , some natural questions to ask are : Can we use an alternative representation for frequent itemsets to minimize the polyline crossings ? Can we design a scalable system that helps users visualize frequent itemsets effectively , even when the number of frequent itemsets is huge ?
Here , we present a visualizer that avoids polyline crossings . Our key contribution of this IEEE ICDM 2008 paper is a novel , interactive and scalable system—called WiFIsViz—which uses a wiring type diagram ( or more precisely , orthogonal graphs ) for visualizing frequent itemsets . This visualizer provides users with clear and explicit depictions about frequent itemsets that are embedded in the data of interest . Hence , WiFIsViz enables users to infer patterns at a glance and answers many questions in various real life applications . It also provides users with interactive features for constrained and/or interactive mining . Moreover , with WiFIsViz , users can efficiently find other patterns such as closed or maximal itemsets .
This paper is organized as follows . In Sections 2 and 3 , we introduce our WiFIsViz and describe its design as well as its interactive features . Section 4 shows evaluation results . Finally , conclusions are presented in Section 5 .
1550 4786/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE 1550 4786/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 101109/ICDM200893 DOI 101109/ICDM200893
875 875
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
2 . Our proposed frequent itemset visualizer
In this section , we show how wiring type diagrams ( or orthogonal graphs ) are used to represent frequent itemsets in our proposed frequent itemset visualizer called WiFIsViz . By using wiring type diagrams , WiFIsViz minimizes bends and avoids the crossings of the polylines . In general , WiFIsViz consists of two views : an overview ( Section 2.1 ) on the left and a detailed view ( Section 2.2 ) on the right . 21 WiFIsViz : the overview
In the overview of our proposed WiFIsViz , we show frequent k itemsets in a two dimensional space , where the x axis shows n domain items . Without loss of generality , these domain items are arranged according to some order R—say , non ascending frequency order or lexicographical order—in the x direction . The y axis shows the frequencies of itemsets . Inspired by wiring type diagrams , we represent frequent k itemsets as “ wires ” . More precisely , a k itemset X is represented by a horizontal line connecting k nodes ( represented by k circles ) , where each node represents an item in X . For example , the 3 itemset {a , b , c} is represented by a horizontal line connecting three circles ( where each circle represents an item ) , as follows : a e b e c u
Note that only one of the three circles is filled . The filled circle represents the last item ( according to the item order R ) in the itemset . In WiFIsViz , we indicate the frequency of any k itemset by the y value of its last item ( ie , the yposition of rightmost filled circle in the horizontal line representing the itemset ) . A singleton itemset ( ie , 1 itemset ) , which is a special case of a k itemset , can be represented by a filled circle ( or by a filled square for user convenience— see Property P2 below ) .
With this representation of itemsets and their frequencies , it is not uncommon that multiple itemsets may have the same frequency . Among them , some may even share the same prefix . To allow users to easily visualize these frequent itemsets , WiFIsViz reduces the number of circles ( filled or hollow ) to be displayed by applying path sharing compression . To elaborate , if two itemsets X and Y are of the same frequency and share the same prefix , then their common prefix can be merged . The suffixes of X and Y are then branching out from the last item in the common prefix . For example , if itemsets {a , b , c} and {a , b , d} ( which share the same prefix {a , b} ) are of the same frequency , WiFIsViz represents them as follows :
Here , {c} and {d} are two branches of the common prefix {a , b} .
A special case of this path sharing compression occurs when X is a prefix of Y . In this case , the two lines representing the two itemsets X and Y would be merged ( and
876876 a e e b e e c u d u merge=⇒ a e b e c u d u straightened ) into one horizontal line . For example , for itemsets {a , b} and {a , b , c} , the former is a prefix of the latter . Hence , WiFIsViz merges ( and straightens ) the lines representing these two itemsets to form the following : a e b u c e e u merge=⇒ a e b u c u straighten=⇒ a e b u c u
Here , the filled circle c indicates the last item in itemset {a , b , c} , whereas the filled circle b indicates the last item in the prefix {a , b} . Note that this compression helps reduce the number of horizontal lines to be drawn ( ie , reduce the required amount of vertical space to display all frequent itemsets ) without losing any information .
When dealing with a huge number of frequent itemsets , multiple itemsets may have the same frequency . Some of them may not share the same prefix . Hence , to further reduce the required amount of vertical space , WiFIsViz applies another compression technique—projection . To elaborate , if m itemsets ( represented by ≤ m horizontal lines ) have the same frequency , WiFIsViz projects their corresponding lines onto one horizontal line . For instance , let us suppose itemsets {a , b} , {a , b , c} , {a , b , d} and {b , c , d} to be of the same frequency . Then , these itemsets can be represented as follows : a e b u c u d e e u u
In WiFIsViz , these four itemsets ( represented by three lines ) are projected ( or compressed ) onto a horizontal line in the overview , as shown below : b u d u a e c u
By doing so , each existing frequency value ( or range of frequency value , if necessary ) would be represented by one and only one horizontal line . This greatly reduces the number of horizontal lines to be drawn . However , the tradeoff is that we may lose information in some situations . For example , the above horizontal lines may be the result of applying projection to lines representing itemsets {a , b} , {a , c} and {a , d} . This explains why , in addition to the overview , WiFIsViz also provides users with the detailed view ( Section 22 )
It is important to note , in some other situations , users are able to precisely and easily visualize frequent itemsets without using the detailed view ( see Properties P5 and P6 below ) or at least to tell which items that are present in ( or absent from ) the itemsets ( see Properties P7 and P8 ) .
With WiFIsViz , one can observe and recognize the fol lowing properties of the overview : P1 . For each domain item , WiFIsViz gives information about its frequency distribution . the overview tells how many distinct frequency values an item takes on . For example , by counting the number of nodes ( filled and hollow circles as well as filled
Specifically ,
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
6
100 % 80 % 60 % e 40 % 20 % e a e u e u b a b u c u u u d u u u u u u u d c
( a ) Overview
? ( b ) Detailed view Figure 2 . The two views in WiFIsViz . squares ) for item b in Figure 2(a ) , we know that any itemsets containing b have one of the three frequencies : 80 % , 40 % or 20 % .
P2 . For user convenience ( eg , ease of item recognition ) , WiFIsViz represents each singleton itemset α by a filled square so that the frequency of α is indicated by the y position of the square . Alternatively , WiFIsViz can also represent α by a filled circle so that the frequency of α is indicated by the highest y position of all filled circles for α . For example , in Figure 2(a ) , the highest y position of all filled nodes for domain item b is 80 % . This is the frequency of b .
P3 . By default , WiFIsViz arranges domain items in nonascending frequency order . As a result , the most frequently occurring item ( ie , the item with the highest frequency ) appears on the left side of the overview and the least frequently occurring one appears on the right side . ( It is important to note that users are not confined to this order . They can choose any order R to arrange domain items . )
P4 . WiFIsViz provides users with an intuitive overview of frequency distribution of all domain items . For example , Figure 2(a ) shows that all domain items have frequencies ≥ 60 % ( as indicated by y positions of filled squares or by highest y positions of filled nodes ) .
P5 . If a horizontal line involves only two items ( say , b and c ) , then users can get complete information about this 2 itemset {b , c} without using the detailed view . The frequency of this 2 itemset is clearly indicated by the y position of the last item c . Moreover , if such a horizontal line ( for frequency y % ) starts with a filled node , then this line gives additional frequency information that sup({b} ) = sup({b , c} ) = y % .
P6 . If a horizontal line ( connecting two or more items ) starts with a hollow circle ( say , representing item a ) and is followed by a filled node ( say , representing item b ) , then users can reveal—without requiring the detailed view—that 2 itemset {a , b} exists with that frequency .
P7 . WiFIsViz provides information about the presence of items in some itemsets . For example , when a node ( filled or hollow ) representing item c appears on the horizontal line for frequency 60 % , we know that c is contained in at least one itemset having frequency 60 % .
P8 . WiFIsViz also provides information about the absence of items from any itemsets . For example , when item b does not appear in the horizontal line for frequency 60 % , we know that b is guaranteed not to appear in any itemsets of that frequency .
P9 . The frequency of any subset of a k itemset X is guaranteed to be higher than or equal to that of X . Hence , the filled square representing any singleton subset of X , as well as the horizontal line representing any nonsingleton subset of X , is guaranteed to appear on or above the horizontal line representing X .
P10 . The frequency of any superset of a k itemset X is guaranteed to be lower than or equal to that of X . Hence , the horizontal line representing any superset of X is guaranteed to appear on or below the horizontal line representing X .
22 WiFIsViz : the detailed view
In the previous section , we showed the overview of our proposed WiFIsViz . In this section , let us present the detailed view of WiFIsViz . Recall that the overview aims to provide users with a quick insight about the distribution of itemsets . Using different compressions ( eg , path sharing , projection ) , we can reduce the number of nodes and/or horizontal lines that need to be displayed . While users are able to visualize frequent itemsets using only the overview in some situations , there are other situations in which the detailed view is needed .
In the detailed view of our proposed WiFIsViz , frequent k itemsets are also represented in a two dimensional space . As in the overview , the n domain items are arranged according to some order R ( eg , non ascending frequency order ) in the x direction . Unlike the overview , frequent itemsets are not arranged according to their frequencies in the y direction . Instead , similar itemsets ( ie , those that share common prefixes , regardless of their frequencies ) are grouped together in the detailed view . We also apply pathsharing compression , but not projection compression , to reduce the amount of vertical space required to display all these frequent itemsets . See Figure 2(b ) for the detailed view ( cf . Figure 2(a ) , which shows the same collection of frequent itemsets in the overview ) . With WiFIsViz , one can observe and recognize the following properties of the detailed view : P11 . For each horizontal line in the detailed view , if a node ( representing an itemset X ) is filled , all the nodes to its left ( representing all prefixes of X ) must be filled . This is due to the Apriori property that all prefixes ( subsets ) of a frequent itemset are guaranteed to be frequent .
877877
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
P12 . By counting the number of nodes on the horizontal line ( from the leftmost node to a filled node ) in the detailed view , we can obtain the cardinality k of the k itemset represented by that line ( eg , cardinality of {a , b , c} is 3 because there are 3 nodes from the leftmost square to the second filled circle ) . While users can count the number of nodes to determine the cardinality of an itemset , WiFIsViz provides an interactive feature called query on cardinality for user convenience . See Section 3 .
In WiFIsViz , the detailed view and the overview complement each other . The two views are linked so that users can highlight one or more horizontal lines in one view ( ie , “ brushing ” ) and the corresponding horizontal lines are also highlighted in the other view . One can observe and recognize the following properties of the two views : P13 . When we select a horizontal line of frequency y % in the overview , WiFIsViz highlights all itemsets of such frequency in the detailed view ( ie , finds out exactly what itemsets were projected onto the line of frequency y% ) . For example , when we select the horizontal line of frequency 60 % in the overview , WiFIsViz highlights in the detailed view itemsets {a , d} , {c , d} and {d} ( all with frequency 60% ) .
P14 . Conversely , when we select an itemset X ( or several itemsets ) in the detailed view , WiFIsViz highlights the corresponding horizontal line in the overview . This reveals the frequency of X . For example , when we select {a , b , c} in the detailed view , WiFIsViz highlights {a , b , c} at frequency = 20 % in the overview .
P15 . When we select some prefixes of an itemset X in the detailed view , we can see from the overview how the frequency changes when truncating some items from X to form the prefixes of X .
P16 . Similarly , when we select some extensions of an itemset X in the detailed view , we can see from the overview how the frequency changes when appending some items to X to form the extensions of X .
3 . Extra interactive features of WiFIsViz
The above representation of WiFIsViz gives users insight into the general distribution of frequent itemsets ; it also provides users with some relevant details . In this section , we describe some additional interactive features of WiFIsViz provided for user convenience .
Feature 1 : query on cardinality . Recall that , by counting the number of nodes on each horizontal line in the detailed view , we can find all k itemsets for a user specified cardinality k . For user convenience and interactive mining , WiFIsViz allows the user to pose a query on cardinality , and it only shows k itemsets . Figure 3 shows six buttons on the top for users to finds itemsets of cardinalties 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and/or 6 .
Feature 2 : query on frequency . With WiFIsViz , users can easily visualize all frequent items and/or frequent itemsets . Among them , users may interest in those of a certain frequency ( or a certain range of frequencies ) . Hence , WiFIsViz provides users with an extra feature so that they can freely move the slider ( on the left of the display area ) up and down along the y axis to show only those itemsets of a certain range of frequencies . By doing so , users can focus of those itemsets of their interest and avoid distraction from other uninteresting itemsets .
Feature 3 : query on itemsets . WiFIsViz also allows users to select certain items of interest ( eg , promotional items in a store ) and to pose queries on itemsets . Examples of these queries include ( i ) “ find all itemsets containing some of selected items ” , ( ii ) “ find all itemsets containing all of the selected items ” , and ( iii ) “ find all itemsets not containing any of the selected items ” .
Feature
4 : details on demand .
Details ondemand [ 15 ] consists of techniques that provide more details whenever the user requests them . The key idea is that WiFIsViz gives users an overview of the entire dataset and then allows them to request details about selected parts by hovering the mouse over items . Specifically , WiFIsViz supports details on demand in the following ( i ) When the mouse hovers on a segment of a ways : horizontal line connecting two nodes ( say , representing items b and d ) , WiFIsViz shows a list of itemsets containing both b and d . Selecting an itemset in the list instantly highlights the specific segment it is contained in , as well as both of its connecting nodes , so that users can see where the segment starts and ends . ( ii ) When the mouse hovers over a node , WiFIsViz shows a list of all itemsets contained in all the line segments starting or ending at this node . Selecting an itemset from the list instantly highlights ( iii ) When the mouse hovers the line it is contained in . over a pixel in the display , a small box appears showing the frequency and itemsets encoded by the mouse position . This is particularly useful when users need to see among the vast array of line segments what a particular point in the display refers to .
Feature 5 : ordering of domain items . By default , WiFIsViz arranges the domain items ( in the x direction ) in non ascending frequency order . However , WiFIsViz also provides users with an option to arrange items in other orders . Having such an option is useful for constrained mining , in which users may want to arrange the items according to some constraints ( eg , put items of interest—say , promotional items—on the left and other items on the right of the x axis ) .
Feature 6 : visualization of other patterns . In addition to visualize frequent itemsets , WiFIsViz also provides users with options to visualize other patterns—such as closed itemsets and maximal itemsets . An itemset X is closed
878878
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
Figure 3 . A snapshot of our proposed WiFIsViz . if there does not exist any proper superset of X that have the same frequency as X . By using this option ( clicking the “ Closed Itemsets ” button ) , WiFIsViz reduces the number of displayed itemsets without losing any information .
Similarly , an itemset Y is maximal if there does not exist any proper superset of Y that is also frequent . With this option , WiFIsViz further reduces the number of displayed itemsets because the collection of maximal itemsets is always a subset of the collection of closed itemsets , which in turn is always a subset of the collection of frequent itemsets . 4 . Evaluation results
In this section , we show our evaluation results of the proposed WiFIsViz . We first compare the functionality of our WiFIsViz with an existing system . We then conduct a user evaluation on the effectiveness of visualization provided by WiFIsViz . 41 Functionality
Here , we compared our proposed WiFIsViz with an existing visualizer , FIsViz [ 11 ] , by considering many different real life scenarios . For each scenario , we determined whether these systems can handle the scenarios . If so , we examined how these systems display the mining results . Our results showed that WiFIsViz was effective in all these scenarios , including the following two scenarios .
Scenario 1 . What kinds of vegetables are in the biggest shopper basket ? Here , we aim to find itemsets having the highest cardinality . To answer this question using FIsViz , we look for polylines with the highest number of nodes . However , polylines may be bent and cross each other . As shown in Figure 1 , users may not be able to easily identify which line segment belongs to a polyline ( and which does not ) . In contrast , to answer this question using WiFIsViz , we can easily find horizontal lines with the highest number of nodes from the detailed view .
Scenario 2 . What kinds of fruits are purchased together by y % of customers ? In FIsViz , itemsets are represented by polylines , which may be bent or cross each other . Hence , users may not be able to visualize all itemsets of frequency y % , especially in a very dense or clustered area of the display . In contrast , it is not so crowded in WiFIsViz due to projection compression . Users can easily identify and select from the overview the horizontal line of frequency y % . As the two views of WiFIsViz are linked , the corresponding lines ( representing all itemsets of frequency y % ) are highlighted . This gives the kinds of fruits that are purchased together by y % of customers . 42 Readability and interaction
To assess the effectiveness of conveying frequent itemset relationships , we carried out a user evaluation with WiFIsViz . The evaluation was primarily case based , within which several types of users were required to solve many different questions based on the visualization of a given dataset ( eg , a dataset consisting of courses taken by upperlevel undergraduate students in the current academic term ) . Figure 3 shows a snapshot of WiFIsViz displaying frequent itemsets mined from such a dataset . Participants were required to identify a set of relationships and make decisions based on their observations from the visualization . We recruited about 20 participants and separated them into two groups : ( i ) those who have data mining background and ( ii ) those who do not . However , none of the participants ( regardless which of the two groups ) was exposed to any form of visualization for frequent itemsets—including WiFIsViz .
879879
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
To test the expressivity of our visualization , we formulated two sets of questions . The first set of questions was aimed at assessing whether participants could simply pick out useful information from viewing the data . This would inform us whether the itemsets were easily visible , whether the frequencies of items were easily identifiable , and whether the layout of the two views made it easy for participants to tease out information . Sample questions included “ Which two courses are most frequently taken ? ” and “ Which three courses are taken together by four students ? ” . Our evaluation results showed that all the test participants were able to identify the basic meaning behind the representations ( eg , frequency was assigned to the y axis in the overview , courses was assigned to the x axis ) . The majority of participants were able to correctly answer most—and some even correctly answer all—of the questions . Interestingly , while we gave the participants a multiple choice list to help them identify the answers , none of the participants used the multiple choice to guide their selection . Instead , their curiosity in understanding the visualizations led them to answer the questions by looking at the two views of WiFIsViz first , and then confirming their answer with one of the choices provided . Moreover , the evaluation results were similar in both groups ( with vs . without data mining background ) . This showed the ease of readability with WiFIsViz . The results also suggested that , with very little training , participants felt comfortable to use the visualizations . Furthermore , they were able to quickly assimilate the representations to the point at which they were able to answer all questions adequately .
The second set of questions required participants to perform some level of more analytical reasoning with the visualization . These included open ended questions such as “ If you were to schedule exams of these courses , which pair of courses would you avoid scheduling on the same day ? ” . Participants essentially provided answers that suggested they could extract a significant amount of the visualization and make sense of it . Our results showed that the participants were able to make the best use of visualization for answering these questions . For example , a participant reported that “ it would make sense to schedule exams for disjointed courses ( eg , COMP 4520 & 4560 ) . Examination scheduling is quite a complicated optimization problem , but somewhat easily read from the current visualization provided by WiFIsViz ” .
Moreover , the participants also found that , while most of the interactive features were not essential ( eg , one could count the number of nodes to determine the cardinality of an itemset ) , they were very helpful and convenient to users . To summarize , participants were able to easily capture the relationships in our datasets , to identify answers to most questions with very high accuracy , and to perform analytical reasoning with the visualization . The results were highly promising in that they confirmed our intuitions about the effectiveness of our proposed visualizer—WiFIsViz . 5 . Conclusions
Most of the frequent itemset mining algorithms return the mined results in textual forms , which can be very long and difficult to comprehend . As “ a picture is worth a thousand words ” , it is desirable to have visual systems . However , many existing visual systems were not designed to show frequent itemsets . To improve this situation , we proposed and developed a powerful frequent itemset visualizer called WiFIsViz , which provides users with frequent itemset information that is easy to understand . Specifically , WiFIsViz gives a quick intuitive overview of all the itemsets and their frequencies . It also provides in depth details of interesting itemsets . Our evaluation results showed that WiFIsViz was effective in visualizing frequent itemsets , which in turn helps users in answering a board range of questions for real life applications and assists them in making appropriate business or management decisions . Acknowledgement . This project is partially supported by NSERC ( Canada ) in the form of research grants . Also thanks all those who participated in the user evaluation . References [ 1 ] R . Agrawal and R . Srikant . Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases . In Proc . VLDB 1994 , pp . 487–499 .
[ 2 ] M . Ankerst et al . Visual classification : an interactive approach to decision tree construction . In Proc . KDD 1999 , pp . 392–396 .
[ 3 ] P . Appan , H . Sundaram , and BL Tseng . Summarization and visualization of communication patterns in a large scale social network . In Proc . PAKDD 2006 , pp . 371–379 .
[ 4 ] S . Berchtold , HV Jagadish , and KA Ross . Independence diagrams : a tech nique for visual data mining . In Proc . KDD 1998 , pp . 139–143 .
[ 5 ] J . Blanchard , F . Guillet , and H . Briand . Interactive visual exploration of associ ation rules with rule focusing methodology . KAIS 13(1 ) , pp . 43–75 , 2007 .
[ 6 ] C . Brunk , J . Kelly , and R . Kohavi . MineSet : an integrated system for data min ing . In Proc . KDD 1997 , pp . 135–138 .
[ 7 ] DA Keim . Information visualization and visual data mining . IEEE TVCG 8(1 ) , pp . 1–8 , 2002 .
[ 8 ] E . Keogh et al . Intelligent Icons : integrating lite weight data mining and visu alization into GUI operating systems . In ICDM 2006 , pp . 912–916 .
[ 9 ] Y . Koren and D . Harel . A two way visualization method for clustered data . In
Proc . KDD 2003 , pp . 589–594 .
[ 10 ] LVS Lakshmanan , CK S Leung , and RT Ng . Efficient dynamic mining of constrained frequent sets . ACM TODS 28(4 ) , pp . 337–389 , 2003 .
[ 11 ] CK S Leung , PP Irani , and CL Carmichael . FIsViz : a frequent itemset vi sualizer . In Proc . PAKDD 2008 , pp . 644–652 .
[ 12 ] CK S Leung and QI Khan . DSTree : a tree structure for the mining of fre quent sets from data streams . In Proc . ICDM 2006 , pp . 928–932 .
[ 13 ] CK S Leung , QI Khan , and T . Hoque . CanTree : a tree structure for efficient incremental mining of frequent patterns . In Proc . ICDM 2005 , pp . 274–281 .
[ 14 ] CK S Leung , MAF Mateo , and DA Brajczuk . A tree based approach for frequent pattern mining from uncertain data . In Proc . PAKDD 2008 , pp . 653– 661 .
[ 15 ] B . Shneiderman . The eyes have it : a task by data type taxonomy for information visualizations . In Proc . VL 1996 , pp . 336–343 .
[ 16 ] C . Stolte , D . Tang , and P . Hanrahan . Query , analysis , and visualization of hier archically structured data using Polaris . In Proc . KDD 2002 , pp . 112–122 .
[ 17 ] L . Yang . Pruning and visualizing generalized association rules in parallel coor dinates . IEEE TKDE 17(1 ) , pp . 60–70 , 2005 .
[ 18 ] K . Zhao et al . A visual data mining framework for convenient identification of useful knowledge . In Proc . ICDM 2005 , pp . 530–537 .
880880
Authorized licensed use limited to : IEEE Xplore . Downloaded on April 17 , 2009 at 21:00 from IEEE Xplore . Restrictions apply .
