Clustering Uncertain Data using Voronoi Diagrams
Ben Kao
Sau Dan Lee
David W . Cheung
Wai Shing Ho
K . F . Chan
Department of Computer Science
The University of Hong Kong
{kao,sdlee,dcheung,wsho,kfchan}@cshkuhk
Abstract
We study the problem of clustering uncertain objects whose locations are described by probability density functions ( pdf ) . We show that the UK means algorithm , which generalises the k means algorithm to handle uncertain objects , is very inefficient . The inefficiency comes from the fact that UK means computes expected distances ( ED ) between objects and cluster representatives . For arbitrary pdf ’s , expected distances are computed by numerical integrations , which are costly operations . We propose pruning techniques that are based on Voronoi diagrams to reduce the number of expected distance calculation . These techniques are analytically proven to be more effective than the basic bounding box based technique previous known in the literature . We conduct experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of our pruning techniques and to show that our techniques significantly outperform previous methods .
1 . Introduction
Clustering is a technique that has been widely studied and applied to many real life applications . Many efficient algorithms , including the well known and widely applied k means algorithm , have been devised to solve the clustering problem efficiently . Traditionally , clustering algorithms deal with a set of objects whose positions are accurately known . The goal is to find a way to divide objects into clusters so that the total distance of the objects to their assigned cluster centres is minimised .
Although simple , the problem model does not address situations where object locations are uncertain . Data uncertainty , however , arises naturally and often inherently in many applications . For example , physical measurements can never be 100 % precise in theory ( due to Heisenberg ’s Uncertainty Principle ) . Limitations of measuring devices thus induce uncertainty to the measured values in practice . As another example , consider the application of clustering a set of mobile devices . By grouping mobile devices into clusters , a leader can be elected for each cluster , which can then coordinate the work within its cluster . For example , a cluster leader may collect data from its cluster ’s members , process the data , and send the data to a central server via an access point in batch . In this way , local communication within a cluster only requires short ranged signals , for which a higher bandwidth is available . Long ranged communication between the leaders and the mobile network only takes place in the form of batch communication . This results in better bandwidth utilisation and energy conservation .
We remark that device locations are uncertain in practice . A mobile device may deduce and report its location by comparing the strengths of radio signals from mobile access points . Unfortunately , such deductions are susceptible to noise . Furthermore , locations are reported periodically . Between two sampling time instances , a location value is unknown and can only be estimated by considering a last reported value and an uncertainty model . Typically , such an uncertainty model considers factors such as the speed of the moving devices and other geometrical constraints ( such as road network , etc ) In this paper we consider the problem of clustering uncertain objects whose locations are specified by uncertainty regions over which arbitrary probability density functions ( pdf ’s ) are defined .
Traditional clustering methods were designed to handle point valued data and thus cannot cope with data uncertainty . One possible way to handle data uncertainty is to first transform uncertain data into point valued data by selecting a representative point for each object before applying a traditional clustering algorithm . For example , the centroid of an object ’s pdf can be used as such a representative point . However , in [ 4 ] , it is shown that considering object pdf ’s gives better clustering results than the centroid method .
In this paper we concentrate on the problem of clustering objects with location uncertainty . Rather than a single point in space , an object is represented by a probability density function ( pdf ) over the space Rm being studied . We assume that each object is confined in a finite region , so that the probability density outside the region is zero . Each ob
