Programming the K means Clustering Algorithm in SQL
Carlos Ordonez
Teradata , NCR
San Diego , CA , USA
ABSTRACT Using SQL has not been considered an efficient and feasible way to implement data mining algorithms . Although this is true for many data mining , machine learning and statistical algorithms , this work shows it is feasible to get an efficient SQL implementation of the well known K means clustering algorithm that can work on top of a relational DBMS . The article emphasizes both correctness and performance . From a correctness point of view the article explains how to compute Euclidean distance , nearest cluster queries and updating clustering results in SQL . From a performance point of view it is explained how to cluster large data sets defining and indexing tables to store and retrieve intermediate and final results , optimizing and avoiding joins , optimizing and simplifying clustering aggregations , and taking advantage of sufficient statistics . Experiments evaluate scalability with synthetic data sets varying size and dimensionality . The proposed K means implementation can cluster large data sets and exhibits linear scalability .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database ApplicationsData Mining
General Terms Algorithms , Languages
Keywords Clustering , SQL , relational DBMS , integration
1 .
INTRODUCTION
There exist many efficient clustering algorithms in the data mining literature . Most of them follow the approach proposed in [ 14 ] , minimizing disk access and doing most of the work in main memory . Unfortunately , many of those algorithms are hard to implement inside a real DBMS where the programmer needs to worry about storage management , concurrent access , memory leaks , fault tolerance , security and so on . On the other hand , SQL has been growing over the years to become a fairly comprehensive and complex query language where the aspects mentioned above are automatically handled for the most part or they can be tuned cfl ACM , 2004 . This is the author ’s version of the work . It is posted here by permission of ACM for your personal use . Not for redistribution . The de.nitive version was published in KDD Conference 2004 , http://doiacmorg/101145/10140521016921 by the database application programmer . Moreover , nowadays SQL is the standard way to interact with a relational DBMS . So can SQL , as it exists today , be used to get an efficient implementation of a clustering algorithm ? This article shows the answer is yes for the popular K means algorithm . It is worth mentioning programming data mining algorithms in SQL has not received too much attention in the database literature . This is because SQL , being a database language , is constrained to work with tables and columns , and then it does not provide the flexibility and speed of a high level programming language like C++ or Java . Summarizing , this article presents an efficient SQL implementation of the Kmeans algorithm that can work on top of a relational DBMS to cluster large data sets .
The article is organized as follows . Section 2 introduces definitions and an overview of the K means algorithm . Section 3 introduces several alternatives and optimizations to implement the K means algorithm in SQL . Section 4 contains experiments to evaluate performance with synthetic data sets . Section 5 discusses related work . Section 6 provides general conclusions and directions for future work .
2 . DEFINITIONS
The basic input for K means [ 2 , 6 ] is a data set Y containing n points in d dimensions , Y = fy1 ; y2 ; : : : ; yng , and k , the desired number of clusters . The output are three matrices W ; C ; R , containing k weights , k means and k variances respectively corresponding to each cluster and a partition of Y into k subsets . Matrices C and R are d.k and W is k 1 Throughout this work three subscripts are used to index matrices : i = 1 ; : : : ; n ; j = 1 ; : : : ; k ; l = 1 ; : : : ; d . To refer to one column of C or R we use the j subscript ( eg Cj ; Rj ) ; Cj can be understood as a d dimensional vector containing the centroid of the jth cluster having the respective squared radiuses per dimension given by Rj . For transposition we will use the T superscript . For instance Cj refers to the jth centroid in column form and C T j is the jth centroid in row form . Let X1 ; X2 ; : : : ; Xk be the k subsets of Y induced by clusters st Xj \ Xj 0 = ; ; j 6= j 0 . K means uses Euclidean distance to find the nearest centroid to each input point , defined as d(yi ; Cj ) = ( yi , Cj)T ( yi , Cj ) = Pd l=1(yli , Clj)2 .
K means can be described at a high level as follows . Centroids Cj are generally initialized with k points randomly selected from Y for an approximation when there is an idea about potential clusters . The algorithm iterates executing the E and the M steps starting from some initial solution until cluster centroids become stable . The E step determines the nearest cluster for each point and adds the point to it .
That is , the E step determines cluster membership and partitions Y into k subsets . The M step updates all centroids Cj by averaging points belonging to the same cluster . Then the k cluster weights Wj and the k diagonal variance matrices Rj are updated based on the new Cj centroids . The quality of a clustering solution is measured by the average quantization error q(C ) ( also known as squared assignment distance [ 6] ) . The goal of K means is minimizing q(C ) , defined as q(C ) = Pn i=1 d(yi ; Cj)=n . where yi 2 Xj . This quantity measures the average squared distance from each point to the cluster where it was assigned according to the partition into k subsets . K means stops when q(C ) changes by a marginal fraction ( ffl ) in consecutive iterations . K means is theoretically guaranteed to converge decreasing q(C ) at each iteration [ 6 ] , but it is common to set a maximum number of iterations to avoid long runs .
3 .
IMPLEMENTING K MEANS IN SQL
This section presents our main contributions . We explain how to implement K means in a relational DBMS by automatically generating SQL code given an input table Y with d selected numerical columns and k , the desired number of clusters as input as defined in Section 2 . The SQL code generator dynamically creates SQL statements monitoring the difference of quality of the solution in consecutive iterations to stop . There are two main schemes presented in here . The first one presents a simple implementation of K means explaining how to program each computation in SQL . We refer to this scheme as the Standard K means implementation . The second scheme presents a more complex K means implementation incorporating several optimizations that dramatically improve performance . We call this scheme the Optimized K means implementation .
There are important assumptions behind our proposal from a performance point of view . Two tables with n rows having the same primary key can be joined in time O(n ) using a hash based join . So if a different DBMS does not provide hash based indexing , joining tables may take longer than O(n ) . However , the proposed scheme should still provide the most efficient implementation even in such cases . In general it is assumed that n is large , whereas d and k are comparatively small . This has a direct relationship to how tables are defined and indexed , and to how queries are formulated in SQL . These assumptions are reasonable in a database environment . 3.1 Basic Framework
The basic scheme to implement K means in SQL , having
Y and k as input ( see Section 2 ) , follows these steps :
1 . Setup . Create , index and populate working tables . 2 . Initialization . Initialize C . 3 . E step . Compute k distances per point yi . 4 . E step . Find closest centroid Cj to each point yi . 5 . M step . Update W ; C and R . 6 . M step . Update table to track K means progress . Steps 3 6 are repeated until K means converges .
3.2 Standard K means to implement K means . In general we omit Data Definition Language ( DDL ) statements and deletion statements to make exposition more concise . Thus most of the SQL code presented involves Data Manipulation Language ( DML ) statements . The columns making up the primary key of a table are underlined . Tables are indexed on their primary key for efficient join access . Subscripts i ; j ; l ( see Section 2 ) are defined as integer columns and the d numerical dimensions of points of Y , distances , and matrix entries of W ; C ; R are defined as FLOAT columns in SQL . Before each INSERT statement it is assumed there is a "DELETE FROM ALL;" statement that leaves the table empty before insertion .
As introduced in Section 2 the input data set has d dimensions . In database terms this means there exists a table Y with several numerical columns out of which d columns are picked for clustering analysis . In practice the input table may have many more than d columns but to simplify exposition we will assume its definition is Y ( Y1 ; Y2 ; : : ; Yd ) . So the SQL implementation needs to build its own reduced version projecting the desired d columns . This motivates defining the following "horizontal" table with d + 1 columns : Y H(i ; Y1 ; Y2 ; :: : ; Yd ) having i as primary key . The first column is the i subscript for each point and then Y H has the list of d dimensions . This table saves Input/Output access ( I/O ) since it may have fewer columns than Y and it is scanned several times during the algorithm progress . In general it is not guaranteed i ( point id ) exists because the primary key of Y may consist of more than one column , or it may not exist at all because Y is the result of some aggregations . In an implementation in an imperative programming language like C++ or Java the point identifier is immaterial since Y is accessed sequentially , but in a relational database it is essential . Therefore it is necessary to automatically create i guaranteeing a unique identifier for each point yi . The following statement computes a cumulative sum on one scan over Y to get i 2 f1 : : : ng and projects the desired d columns .
INSERT INTO YH SELECT sum(1 ) over(rows unbounded preceding ) AS i
,Y1 ; Y2 ; : : : ; Yd
FROM Y ;
The point identifier i can be generated with some other SQL function than returns a unique identifier for each point . Getting a unique identifier using a random number is not a good idea because it may get repeated , specially for very large data sets . As seen in Section 2 clustering results are stored in matrices W ; C ; R . This fact motivates having one table for each of them storing one matrix entry per row to allow queries access each matrix entry by subscripts j and l . So the tables are as follows : W ( j ; w ) , C(l ; j ; val ) , R(l ; j ; val ) , having k , dk and dk rows respectively .
The table Y H defined above is useful to seed K means , but it is not adequate to compute distances using the SQL "sum()" aggregate function . So it has to be transformed into a "vertical" table having d rows for each input point , with one row per dimension . This leads to table Y V with definition Y V ( i ; l ; val ) . Then table Y V is populated with d statements as follows :
Creating and populating working tables In the following paragraphs we discuss table definitions , indexing and several guidelines to write efficient SQL code
INSERT INTO YV SELECT i,1,Y1 FROM YH ; : : : INSERT INTO YV SELECT i,d,Yd FROM YH ;
Finally we define a table to store several useful numbers to track K means progress . Table model serves this purpose : model(d ; k ; n ; iteration ; avg q ; dif f avg q ) .
Initializing K means Most K means variants use k points randomly selected from Y to seed C . Since W and R are output they do not require initialization . In this case Y H proves adequate for this purpose to seed a "horizontal" version of C . Table CH(j ; Y1 ; : : : ; Yd ) is updated as follows .
INSERT INTO CH
SELECT 1,Y1 ; : : ; Yd FROM YH SAMPLE 1 ;
: : : INSERT INTO CH
SELECT k,Y1 ; : : ; Yd FROM YH SAMPLE 1 ;
Once CH is populated it can be used to initialize C with dk statements as follows ,
INSERT INTO C
SELECT 1 ; 1 ; Y1 FROM CH WHERE j = 1 ;
: : : INSERT INTO C
SELECT d ; k ; Yd FROM CH WHERE j = k ; Computing Euclidean distance K means determines cluster membership in the E step . This is an intensive computation since it requires O(dkn ) operations . Distance computation needs Y V and C as input . The output should be stored in a table having k distances per point . That leads to the table Y D defined as Y D(i ; j ; distance ) . The SQL is as follows .
INSERT INTO YD SELECT i ; j,sum((YVval Cval)**2 ) FROM Y V ; C WHERE Y V:l = C:l GROUP BY i ; j ;
After the insertion Y D contains kn rows . Before doing the GROUP BY there is an intermediate table with dkn rows . This temporary table constitutes the largest table required by K means . Finding the nearest centroid The next step involves determining the nearest neighbor ( among clusters ) to each point based on the k distances and storing the index of that cluster in table Y N N ( i ; j ) . Therefore , table Y N N will store the partition of Y into k subsets being j the partition subscript . This requires two steps in SQL . The first step involves determining the minimum distance . The second step involves assigning the point to the cluster with minimum distance . A derived table and a join are required in this case . Table Y N N contains the partition of Y and will be the basic ingredient to compute centroids . This statement assumes that the minimum distance is unique for each point . In abnormal cases , where distances are repeated ( eg because of repeated centroids , or many repeated points ) ties are broken in favor of the cluster with the lowest subscript j ; that code is omitted .
INSERT INTO Y N N SELECT Y D:i ; Y D:j FROM Y D , ( SELECT i ; min(distance ) AS mindist
FROM YD GROUP BY i)YMIND
WHERE Y D:i = Y M IN D:i and Y D:distance = Y M IN D:mindist ;
Updating clustering results The M step updates W ; C ; R based on the partition Y N N obtained in the E step . Given the tables introduced above updating clustering parameters is straightforward . The SQL generator just needs to count points per cluster , compute the average of points in the same cluster to get new centroids , and compute variances based on the new centroids . The respective statements are shown below .
INSERT INTO W SELECT j,count(* ) FROM Y N N GROUP BY j ; UPDATE W SET w = w=model:n ;
INSERT INTO C SELECT l ; j ; avg(Y V:val ) FROM Y V ; Y N N WHERE Y V:i = Y N N:i GROUP BY l ; j ;
INSERT INTO R SELECT C:l ; C:j,avg( ( Y V:val , C:val ) fi fi2 ) FROM C ; Y V ; Y N N WHERE Y V:i = Y N N:i and Y V:l = C:l and Y N N:j = C:j
GROUP BY C:l ; C:j ;
Observe that the M step as computed in SQL has complexity O(dn ) because Y N N has n rows and Y V has dn rows . That is , the complexity is not O(dkn ) , which would be the time required for a soft partition approach like EM . This fact is key to a better performance .
Finally , we just need to track K means progress :
UPDATE model FROM ( SELECT sum(W fi R:val ) AS avg q FROM R ; W WHERE R:j = W:j)avgR SET avg q = avgR:avg q,iteration=iteration+1 ;
3.3 Optimized K means
Even though the implementation introduced above correctly expresses K means in SQL there are several optimizations that can be made . These optimizations go from physical storage organization and indexing to concurrent processing and exploiting sufficient statistics .
Physical storage and indexing of large tables We now discuss how to index tables to provide efficient access and improve join performance . Tables Y H(i ; Y1 ; : : ; Yd ) and Y N N ( i ; j ) have n rows each , each has i as its primary key and both need to provide efficient join processing for points . Therefore , it is natural to index them on their primary key i . When one row of Y H is accessed all d columns are used . Therefore , it is not necessary to individually index any of them . Table Y V ( i ; l ; val ) has dn rows and needs to provide efficient join processing with C to compute distances and with Y N N to update W ; C ; R . When K means computes distances squared differences ( yli , Clj)2 are grouped by i and j , being i the most important factor from the performance point of view . To speed up processing all d rows corresponding to each point i are physically stored on the same disk block and Y V has an extra index on i . The table block size for Y V is increased to allow storage of all rows on the same disk block . The SQL to compute distances is explained below .
Faster distance computation For K means the most intensive step is distance computation , which has time complexity O(dkn ) . This step requires both significant CPU use and I/O . We cannot reduce the number of arithmetic operations required since that is intrinsic to K means itself ( although under certain constraints computations may be accelerated ) , but we can optimize distance computation to decrease I/O . Recalling the SQL code given in Section 3.2 we can see distance computation requires joining one table with dn rows and another table with dk rows to produce a large intermediate table with dkn rows ( call it Y kdn ) . Once this table is computed the DBMS groups rows into dk groups . So a critical aspect is being able to compute the k distances per point avoiding this huge intermediate table Y dkn . A second aspect is determining the nearest cluster given k distances for i 2 1 : : : n . Determining the nearest cluster requires a scan on Y D , reading kn rows , to get the minimum distance per point , and then a join to determine the subscript of the closest cluster . This requires joining kn rows with n rows .
To reduce I/O we propose to compute the k distances "in parallel" storing them as k columns of Y D . Then the new definition for table Y D is Y D(i ; d1 ; d2 ; : : : ; dk ) with primary key i , where dj = d(yi ; Cj ) , the distance from point i to the jth centroid . This decreases I/O since disk space is reduced ( less space per row , index on n rows instead of kn rows ) and the k distances per point can be obtained in one I/O instead of k I/Os . This new scheme requires changing the representation of matrix C to have all k values per dimension in one row or equivalent , containing one cluster centroid per column , to properly compute distances . This leads to a join producing a table with only n rows instead of kn rows , and creating an intermediate table with dn rows instead of dkn rows . Thus C is stored in a table defined as C(l ; C1 ; C2 ; : : : ; Ck ) , with primary key l and indexed by l . At the beginning of each E step column C is copied from a table W CR to table C . Table W CR is related to sufficient statistics concepts and will be introduced later . The SQL to compute the k distances is as follows :
INSERT INTO YD SELECT i
,sum((Y V:val , C:C1)**2 ) AS d1 : : : ,sum((Y V:val , C:Ck)**2 ) AS dk
FROM Y V ; C WHERE Y V:l = C:l GROUP BY i ;
Observe each dimension of each point in Y V is paired with the corresponding centroid dimension . This join is efficiently handled by the query optimizer because Y V is large and C is small . An alternative implementation with UDFs , not explored in this work , would require to have a different distance UDF for each value of d , or a function allowing a variable number of arguments ( eg the distance between yi and Cj would be distance(y1i ; C1j ; y2i ; C2j ; : : : ; ydi ; Cdj ) . This is because UDFs can only take simple data types ( floating point numbers in this case ) and not vectors . Efficiency would be gained by storing matrix C in cache memory and avoiding the join . But a solution based on joins is more elegant and simpler and time complexity is the same . Nearest centroid without join The disadvantage about k distances being all in one row is that the SQL min( ) aggregate function is no longer use ful . We could transform Y D into a table with kn rows and then use the same approach introduced in Section 3.2 but that transformation and the subsequent join would be slow . Instead we propose to determine the nearest cluster using a CASE statement instead of calling the min( ) aggregate function . Then the SQL to get the subscript of the closest centroid is :
INSERT INTO Y N N SELECT i , CASE
WHEN d1 d2 AND d1 dk THEN 1 WHEN d2 d3 AND d2 dk THEN 2 : : : ELSE k
END FROM Y D ;
It becomes evident from this approach there is no join needed and the search for the closest centroid for one point is done in main memory . The nearest centroid is determined in one scan on Y D . Then I/O is reduced from ( 2kn + n ) I/Os to n I/Os . Observe that the jth WHEN predicate has k ,j terms . That is , as the search for the minimum distance continues the number of inequalities to evaluate decreases . however , the CASE statement has time complexity O(k2 ) instead of O(k ) which is the usual time to determine the nearest centroid . So we slightly affect K means performance from a theoretical point of view . But I/O is the main performance factor and this CASE statement works in memory . If k is more than the maximum number of columns allowed in the DBMS Y D and C can be vertically partitioned to overcome this limitation . This code could be simplified with a User Defined Function "argmin()" that returns the subscript of the smallest argument . The problem is this function would require a variable number of arguments . Suf.cient Statistics Now we turn our attention to how to accelerate K means using sufficient statistics . Sufficient statistics have been shown to be an essential ingredient to accelerate data mining algorithms [ 2 , 4 , 14 , 7 ] . So we explore how to incorporate them into a SQL based approach . The sufficient statistics for K means are simple . Recall from Section 2 Xj represents the set of points in cluster j . We introduce three new matrices N ; M ; Q to store sufficient statistics . Matrix N is k . 1 , matrices M and Q are d . k . Observe their sizes are analogous to W ; C ; R sizes and that Qj represents a diagonal matrix analogous to Rj . Nj stores the number of points , Mj stores the sum of points and Qj stores the sum of squared points in cluster j respectively . Then Nj = jXj j , yT i yi . Based on these three Mj = Pyi2Xj equations W ; C ; R are computed as Wj = Nj = Pk J =1 WJ , Cj = Mj =Nj , Rj = Qj =Nj , C T yi , Qj = Pyi2Xj j Cj .
To update parameters we need to join Y N N , that contains the partition of Y into k subsets , with Y V , that contains the actual dimension values . It can be observed that from a database point of view sufficient statistics allow making one scan over the partition Xj given by Y N N grouped by j . The important point is that the same statement can be used to update N ; M ; Q if they are stored in the same table . That is , keeping a denormalized scheme . So instead of having three separate tables , N ; M ; Q are stored on the same table . But if we keep sufficient statistics in one table that leads to also keeping the clustering results in one table .
So we introduce table definitions : N M Q(l ; j ; N ; M ; Q ) and W CR(l ; j ; W ; C ; R ) . Both tables have the same structure and are indexed by the primary key ( l ; j ) . So these table definitions substitute the table definitions for the Standard K means implementation introduced above . Then the SQL to update sufficient statistics is as follows :
INSERT INTO N M Q SELECT l ; j,sum(1.0 ) AS N ,sum(Y V .val ) AS M ,sum(Y V val*YVval ) AS Q
FROM Y V ; Y N N WHERE Y V:i = Y N N:i GROUP BY l ; j ;
By using table N M Q the SQL code for the M step gets simplified and becomes faster to update W CR .
UPDATE W CR SET W = 0 ; UPDATE W CR SET
W = N ,C=CASE WHEN N > 0 THEN M=N ELSE C END ,R=CASE WHEN N > 0 THEN Q=N , ( M=N ) fi fi2
ELSE R END
WHERE N M Q:l = W CR:l AND N M Q:j = W CR:j ; UPDATE WCR SET W=W/model.n ;
An INSERT/SELECT statement , although equivalent and more efficient , would eliminate clusters with zero points from the output . We prefer to explicitly show those clusters . The main advantages of using sufficient statistics compared Standard K means , is that M and Q do not depend on each other and together with N they are enough to update C ; R ( eliminating the need to scan Y V ) . Therefore , the dependence between C and R is removed and both can be updated at the same time . Summarizing , Standard K means requires one scan over Y N N to get W and two joins between Y N N and Y V to get C and R requiring in total three scans over Y N N and two scans over Y V . This requires reading ( 3n + 2dn ) rows . On the other hand , Optimized K means , based on sufficient statistics , requires only one join and one scan over Y N N and one scan over Y V . This requires reading only ( n + dn ) rows . This fact speeds up the process considerably . Table W CR is initialized with dk rows having columns W ; R set to zero and column C initialized with k random points taken from CH . Table CH is initialized as described in Section 32 Then CH is copied to column C in W CR . At the beginning of each E step W CR:C is copied to table C so that table C is current .
4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
Experiments were conducted on a Teradata machine . The system was an SMP ( parallel Symmetric Multi Processing ) with 4 nodes , having one CPU each running at 800 Mhz , and 40 AMPs ( Access Module Processors ) running Teradata V2R4 DBMS . The system had 10 terabytes of available disk space . The SQL code generator was programmed in the Java language , which connected to the DBMS through the JDBC interface . 4.1 Running time varying problem sizes
Figure 1 shows scalability graphs . We conducted our tests with synthetic data sets having defaults d = 8 ; k = 8 ; n = 1000k ( with means in [ 0,10 ] and unitary variance ) which represent typical problem sizes in a real database environment .
Since the number of iterations K means takes may vary depending on initialization we compared the time for one iteration . This provides a fair comparison . The first graph shows performance varying d , the second graph shows scalability at different k values and the third graph shows scalability with the most demanding parameter : n . These graphs clearly show several differences among our implementations . Optimized K means is always the fastest . Compared to Standard K means the difference in performance becomes significant as d ; k ; n increase . For the largest d ; k ; n values Optimized K means is ten orders of magnitude faster than Standard Kmeans . Extrapolating these numbers , we can see Optimized K means is 100 times faster than Standard K means when d = 32 , k = 32 and n = 1M ( or d = 32 , k = 8 , n = 16M ) and 1000 times faster when d = 32 , k = 32 and n = 16M .
5 . RELATED WORK
Research on implementing data mining algorithms using SQL includes the following . Association rules mining is explored in [ 12 ] and later in [ 5 ] . General data mining primitives are proposed in [ 3 ] . Primitives to mine decision trees are introduced in [ 4 , 13 ] . Programming the more powerful EM clustering algorithm in SQL is explored in [ 8 ] .
Our focus was more on the side of writing efficient SQL code to implement K means rather than proposing another "fast" clustering algorithm [ 1 , 2 , 14 , 9 , 7 ] . These algorithms require a high level programming language to access memory and perform complex mathematical operations . The way we exploit sufficient statistics is similar to [ 2 , 14 ] . This is not the first work to explore the implementation of a clustering algorithm in SQL . Our K means proposal shares some similarities with the EM algorithm implemented in SQL [ 8 ] . This implementation was later adapted to cluster gene data [ 11 ] , with basically the same approach . We explain important differences between the EM and K means implementations in SQL . K means is an algorithm strictly based on distance computation , whereas EM is based on probability computation . This results in a simpler SQL implementation of clustering with wider applicability . We explored the possibility of using sufficient statistics in SQL , which are crucial to improve performance . The clustering model is stored in a single table , as opposed to three tables . Several aspects related to table definition , indexing and query optimization not addressed before are now studied in detail . A fast K means prototype to cluster data sets inside a relational DBMS using disk based matrices is presented in [ 10 ] . The disk based implementation and the SQL based implementation are complementary solutions to implement K means in a relational DBMS .
6 . CONCLUSIONS
This article introduced two implementations of K means in SQL . The proposed implementations allow clustering large data sets in a relational DBMS eliminating the need to export or access data outside the DBMS . Only standard SQL was used ; no special data mining extensions for SQL were needed . This work concentrated on defining suitable tables , indexing them and writing efficient queries for clustering purposes . The first implementation is a naive translation of K means computations into SQL and serves as a framework to introduce an optimized version with superior performance . The first implementation is called Standard
Performance varying d
Performance varying k
Performance varying n s d n o c e s n i e m T i
1600 1500 1400 1300 1200 1100 1000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0
Std KM Opt KM
0
4
8
12
20
24
28
32
16 d s d n o c e s n i e m T i
1800
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
0
Std KM Opt KM
4
8
12
16
20
24
28
32 k s d n o c e s n i e m T i
12000 11000 10000 9000 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0
Std KM Opt KM
0
4
8
12
16 n x 1 million
Figure 1 : Time per iteration varying d ; k ; n . Defaults : d = 8 ; k = 8 ; n = 10000 ; 000
K means and the second one is called Optimized K means . Optimized K means computes all Euclidean distances for one point in one I/O , exploits sufficient statistics and stores the clustering model in a single table . Experiments evaluate performance with large data sets focusing on elapsed time per iteration . Standard K means presents scalability problems with increasing number of clusters or number of points . Its performance graphs exhibit nonlinear behavior . On the other hand , Optimized K means is significantly faster and exhibits linear scalability . Several SQL aspects studied in this work have wide applicability for other distance based clustering algorithms found in the database literature .
There are many issues that deserve further research . Even though we proposed an efficient way to compute Euclidean distance there may be more optimizations . Several aspects studied here also apply to the EM algorithm . Clustering very high dimensional data where clusters exist only on projections of the data set is another interesting problem . We want to cluster very large data sets in a single scan using SQL combining the ideas proposed here with User Defined Functions , OLAP extensions , and more efficient indexing . Certain computations may warrant defining SQL primitives to be programmed inside the DBMS . Such constructs would include Euclidean distance computation , pivoting a table to have one dimension value per row and another one to find the nearest cluster given several distances . The rest of computations are simple and efficient in SQL .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] C . Aggarwal and P . Yu . Finding generalized projected clusters in high dimensional spaces . In ACM SIGMOD Conference , pages 70{81 , 2000 .
[ 2 ] P . Bradley , U . Fayyad , and C . Reina . Scaling clustering algorithms to large databases . In Proc . ACM KDD Conference , pages 9{15 , 1998 .
[ 3 ] J . Clear , D . Dunn , B . Harvey , ML Heytens , and
P . Lohman . Non stop SQL/MX primitives for knowledge discovery . In ACM KDD Conference , pages 425{429 , 1999 .
[ 4 ] G . Graefe , U . Fayyad , and S . Chaudhuri . On the efficient gathering of sufficient statistics for classification from large SQL databases . In Proc . ACM
KDD Conference , pages 204{208 , 1998 .
[ 5 ] H . Jamil . Ad hoc association rule mining as SQL3 queries . In IEEE ICDM Conference , pages 609{612 , 2001 .
[ 6 ] JB MacQueen . Some methods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations . In Proc . of the 5th Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability , 1967 .
[ 7 ] C . Ordonez . Clustering binary data streams with
K means . In Proc . ACM SIGMOD Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Workshop , pages 10{17 , 2003 .
[ 8 ] C . Ordonez and P . Cereghini . SQLEM : Fast clustering in SQL using the EM algorithm . In Proc . ACM SIGMOD Conference , pages 559{570 , 2000 .
[ 9 ] C . Ordonez and E . Omiecinski . FREM : Fast and robust EM clustering for large data sets . In ACM CIKM Conference , pages 590{599 , 2002 .
[ 10 ] C . Ordonez and E . Omiecinski . Efficient disk based
K means clustering for relational databases . IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering ( TKDE ) , 16(8):909{921 , 2004 .
[ 11 ] D . Papadopoulos , C . Domeniconi , D . Gunopulos , and S . Ma . Clustering gene expression data in SQL using locally adaptive metrics . In ACM DMKD Workshop , pages 35{41 , 2003 .
[ 12 ] S . Sarawagi , S . Thomas , and R . Agrawal . Integrating association rule mining with relational database systems : alternatives and implications . In Proc . ACM SIGMOD Conference , pages 343{354 , 1998 .
[ 13 ] K . Sattler and O . Dunemann . SQL database primitives for decision tree classifiers . In Proc . ACM CIKM Conference , pages 379{386 , 2001 .
[ 14 ] T . Zhang , R . Ramakrishnan , and M . Livny . BIRCH :
An efficient data clustering method for very large databases . In Proc . ACM SIGMOD Conference , pages 103{114 , 1996 .
