Enabling Secure Digital Marketplace
Hongxia Jin
IBM Almaden Research Center jin@usibmcom
Vladimir Zbarsky
IBM Almaden Research Center zbarsky@usibmcom
ABSTRACT The fast development of the Web provides new ways for effective distribution of network based digital goods . A digital marketplace provides a platform to enable Web users to effectively acquire , share , market and distribute digital content . However , the success of the digital marketplace business models hinges on securely managing the digital rights and usage of the digital content . For example , the digital content should be only consumable by paid users . This paper describes a Web based system that enables the secure exchange of digital content between Web users and prevents users from illegally re sell of the digital content . Part of our solution is based on broadcast encryption technology .
Categories and Subject Descriptors:K65 [ Management of Computing and Information Systems][Security and Protection ]
General Terms : Security , digital content , marketplace
Keywords : DRM , content protection , security , download
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The fast development of the Web provides new ways for people to exchange goods . Web 2.0 companies like Ebay provide platforms that enable Web users to become a buyer/seller and exchange their goods . It provides an online marketplace for people . In this type of business model , the marketplace provider derives most of its revenue by charging a service fee for each buy/sell transaction that is done through its Website . On the other hand , more and more people are producing and consuming content in digital form , for example , software , digital document or video/audio . Unfortunately different from a physical good that can be sold to only one buyer , digital good can be easily copied and sold to many buyers . While it helps driving more legitimate sales , it also allows potential illegal re sells of the copies of the digital goods . So a digital marketplace must provide security features that ensure only the paid buyers can acquire and consume the digital content . Only then people can be motivated to produce and sell their digital content online .
As a concrete example , one can imagine a web user who produces a video clip teaching how to do a certain thing . Another Web user might be looking for ways to learn how to do that . A digital marketplace would provide secure and effective exchange of digital learning content .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
We classify the marketplace scenarios into two different cases . In one case the acquired content is restricted to only display on one particular device . In the other case the acquired digital content can be displayed/rendered on multiple and maybe different type of devices . For example , a user wants to run the purchased software on multiple machines , or playback the purchased video content on different types of devices . In this paper we will show a system that can enable secure digital marketplace in both cases . The main design goal is to prevent people from making copies and resell copies illegally .
2 . OUR SYSTEM
Our system mainly involves three parties , the marketplace provider ( the server ) , web users as content producers/sellers ( client ) and web users as content consumers/buyers ( client ) . Figure 1 illustrates a transaction process at high level .
As a first step of the transaction process , the selling client uploads his content to the server where the content will be encrypted and packaged . The uploaded content will be encrypted with a randomly picked key called title key . The title key will also be encrypted and reside together with the encrypted content . Once the content and its title key are encrypted , it can be stored securely in the backend repository . Of course storing the content and the title key in their encrypted form does not require special storage . In the meanwhile , the preview or introduction of the digital content is displayed and advertised on the server web site .
When the buying client identifies the content he wants to purchase from the server website , he will connect to the repository to download the encrypted content together with its encrypted title keys ( step 2 ) . In our system we will rebind the title key to the buying client ( step 3 and 4 ) . This will prevent people from illegally re sell the content . The calculation that binds the title key to the client is performed on the server side , not on the client side . We call the server that performs this function the clearing house . The marketplace provider can also function as the clearing house .
How does the clearing house learn the title key in order to bind the title key ? Well , when the content is packaged and encrypted , the title key is encrypted with a key that is agreed upon between the clearing house and the server who packages the content . Different ways may be used to encrypt the title key . A simple way would be encrypting the title key with the server ’s public key . After the buying client downloads the packaged content , it extracts the encrypted title key from the packaged content .
In the case that only one machine is allowed to playback
1217WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China encrypted content and
E(Kt )
2 download content packaging
1 raw content clearing house old E(Kt ) is decrypted title key is re encrypted encrypted content old E(Kt )
3
4 old E(Kt ) ,
( MKB ) , media
ID new E(Kt ) consumer device
5 media
Figure 1 : High level overview the purchased content , the buying client will first make the payment , then send the encrypted title key together with its machine specific information ( eg , ID ) to the clearing house ( step 3 ) . The payment could be made to the clearing house or directly to the selling client . In either case , once the payment is confirmed , the clearing house will decrypt the encrypted title key using the key that was initially agreed upon with the content packaging server . The clearing house then derives a machine unique key based on the machine specific information using an one way function and re encrypts the title key using the machine unique key . The re encrypted title key is sent back to the buying client ( step 4 ) . Only on the specified playback machine the buying client can derive the machine unique key and decrypt the title key to decrypt the content .
In a more generic case , the purchased content can be consumed on multiple devices . Those devices may not be even known when the content is purchased . In order to enable this , we utilize a technology called broadcast encryption [ 1 ] .
2.1 Broadcast Encryption
A broadcast encryption scheme is a key management technology that allows a piece of content to be accessible only by a subset of privileged/enabled users and not the revoked/disabled users . When a user is found non compliant he/she will be excluded from future content access . The structure that enables exclusion/revocation of users is called Media Key Block ( MKB ) . MKB can enable very compliant device to calculate a key that ultimately derives the title key to decrypt the content . Any non compliant device will not be able to process MKB and derive the key to access content . Unlike a public key system , a broadcast encryption system is not identity based . As long as a device is compliant , he can process MKB and ultimately access content . It has been used in Content Protection for Recordable Media [ 2 ] .
2.2 Binding title key to the media
We believe it is possible to use broadcast encryption scheme to enable purchased content be consumable by multiple devices . We burn the purchased content onto a physical recordable media and bind the title key to the media . The media contains in it a MKB created by the clearing house , and each playback device is a user in a broadcast encryption scheme . In order to bind the title key to the media , the buying client not only needs to send to the clearing house the initially encrypted title key but also the MKB and media ID information extracted from the recordable media ( step 3 ) . The clearing house will calculate the media key out of the MKB and derive a media unique key from the media key and the media ID . The clearing house will re encrypt the title key with the media unique key ( step 4 ) . The buying client will burn the downloaded encrypted content and the new encrypted title key to the recordable media ( step 5 ) . This media can be played back at any compliant device because any compliant device can process MKB and decrypt the title key to decrypt the content . But any copies of the media will not work because the content encrypting key ( the title key ) is bound to the particular media .
3 . KEY FEATURES AND CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we described a system that provides a marketplace that enables web users to exchange digital content securely . The first main feature in our system is that the content is stored encrypted ; and the content encrypting key ( title key ) itself is stored encrypted together with the content . Second , it provides ways to prevent illegal re sale of the content . We achieve this by binding the title key to a particular machine or a piece of physical media . Third , in our system , the clearing house which does the title key binding can be placed anywhere that the client can access . It does not have to be tied to the repository that stores the content . The clearing house does not have to interact with the content server and does not have to know the content . This simplifies the design of the clearing house . The clearing house and the content server can even be two independent entities . Moreover , in order to prevent illegal reselling of the decrypted content which is of course more bandwidthconsuming for attackers but might allow them stay anonymous , we can easily add a feature similar to [ 4 ] . Basically different devices will be bound to the different variations embedded in the content . Those variations allow identification of which copy of the content has been re distributed .
We discussed two business scenarios . In one scenario the acquired content is bound to a particular machine/device . In another scenario the acquired content is bound to a physical media but can be consumed in multiple devices . In later scenario we used broadcast encryption technology which has been used in traditional settings to protect the large amount of content produced by small number of producers [ 3 ] .
As future work we want to improve the system by taking into considerations of the unique setting of the new Web paradigm in which there exist large number of content producers ( eg , web users ) each producing small number of content ( eg , video clips ) . While our preliminary system design shows some similarities with traditional content protection system setting . We believe the uniqueness of the new Web setting may deserve a different system design .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Fiat and M . Naor , “ Broadcast Encryption , ”
Crypto’93 , LNCS Vol . 773 , pp480 491 . Springer , 1993 .
[ 2 ] www4centitycom [ 3 ] CPRM Specification , CPRM Network Download [ 4 ] H . Jin , J.Lotspiech and S.Nusser , ” Traitor tracing for prerecorded and recordable media ” , ACM DRM workshop , pp.83 90 , WashingtonDC2004
1218WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
