Report on Semantic Web for Health Care and Life Sciences
Huajun Chen , Kei Cheung Zhejiang University , Yale University huajunsir@zjueducn keicheung@yaleedu
Alan Ruttenberg Science Commons michel_dumontier@carleton.ca
Workshop Michel Dumontier Carleton University
Susie Stephens Eli Lilly and Company
Eric Prud’hommeaux
World Wide Web Consortium eric@w3.org
Yimin Wang
University of Karlsruhe ywa@aifbuni karlsruhede alanruttenberg@gmail.com stephens_susie_m@lilly.com
ABSTRACT The Semantic Web for Health Care and Life Sciences Workshop will be held in Beijing , China , on April 22 , 2008 . The goal of the workshop is to foster the development and advancement in the use of Semantic Web technologies to facilitate collaboration , research and development , and innovation adoption in the domains of Health Care and Life Sciences , We also encourage the participation of all research communities in this event , with enhanced participation from Asia due to the location of the event . The workshop consists of two invited keynote talks , eight peerreviewed presentations , and one panel discussion .
Categories and Subject Descriptors General Terms . : Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Human Factors , Keywords : Semantic Web , Health Care , Life Sciences , Biomedical Informatics , Ontology , Data Integration . 1 . INTRODUCTION Biomedical researchers need to be able to ask questions that span many heterogeneous data sources in order to make well informed decisions . For this to be achieved , knowledge about drugs , patients , diseases , genes , proteins , and pathways must be effectively integrated . Yet the integration of disparate biomedical data continues to be a significant challenge . Many organizations are now exploring the use of Semantic Web technologies in the hope of easing the effort required for data integration . The benefits promised by the Semantic Web include aggregation of heterogeneous data using explicit semantics , simplified annotation , web based sharing of findings , expression of rich and well defined models for data aggregation and search , easier reuse of data in unanticipated ways , and the application of logic to infer additional insights . W3C has established the Semantic Web for Health Care and Life Sciences Interest Group ( HCLSIG ) to help organizations in their adoption and application of Semantic Web technologies . The
. Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . to technologies
HCLSIG is chartered to develop and support the use of Semantic Web improve collaboration , research and development , and innovation adoption in the domains of Health Care and Life Sciences . Towards this goal , we are organizing a workshop on the Semantic Web for Health Care and Life Sciences in conjunction with WWW2008 . The workshop is located in Beijing , the capital of mainland China . In addition to its cultural , historical , and political significance , Beijing is one of the Asian regions that is experiencing great economic and technological growth . It is truly exciting for this workshop to take place in Beijing at this time .
2 . CONTENT We have accepted eight paper submissions for presentation at the workshop . Among the accepted Semantic Web papers , three were from Asia , three papers were from Europe , and two from North America . The workshop will help to promote Semantic Web research and collaboration in the HCLS context across different cultural backgrounds . The accepted papers cover a broad range of topics including web ontology modeling , data integration , data mining , ontology storage , scientific collaboration , and community interaction . Michel Dumontier et al report their endeavor in modeling the pharmacogenomics of depression . They present a knowledgebase designed with Semantic Web technologies capable of capturing essential aspects including genes , gene variant , SNPs , drugs , measures and outcomes , as well gene drug interactions and drug treatments . The knowledge base draws upon OWL 1.1 ’s role chains to facilitate question answering and pharmacogenomics knowledge discovery . Yuxin Mao et al present a case study of ontology engineering as well as its applications in traditional Chinese medicine with consideration for the special characteristics of the Chinese language . In addition , a sub ontology model is proposed to support dynamic ontology reuse . The engineering effort results in an ontology of 20,000 classes and 100,000 instances . Alexander Garcia et al focus on using Semantic Web technologies to capture and model neuron radiological knowledge in a head injury scenario . They further investigate how the proposed ontology can be utilized to facilitate information retrieval from a pre existing database of medical neurological images . Andrew Newman et al introduce a project called BioMANTA that focuses on utilizing Semantic Web technologies together with a
1273WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China and reasoning scale out architecture to provide efficient , scalable RDF storage and inferencing . The fully developed system provides efficient analysis , querying , about protein protein interaction data . Yu Tong et al investigate the feasibility of utilizing the enhanced integration capability enabled by Semantic Web technologies to map and analyze various biomedical complex networks . A new methodology named semantic graph mining is proposed accordingly , which uses the semantic graph model to integrate graph mining and ontology reasoning for better analyzing biomedical complex networks . As part of the biomedical use case , the Gene Ontology is characterized and visualized based on resource importance calculation ; and also a global herb drug interaction network is mapped through semantic integration of legacy relational databases for discerning interesting patterns such as frequent sub graphs and community structures . Matthias Samwald et al present the "Entrez Neuron" , a neuroncentric interface that allows for keyword based queries against a coherent repository of OWL ontologies about neuronal structure , physiology , mathematical models and microscopy images . The returned query results are organized hierarchically according to brain architecture . Where possible , the application makes use of entities from the Open Biomedical Ontologies ( OBO ) and the 'HCLS knowledgebase developed by the W3C Interest Group for Health Care and Life Science . It also makes use of the emerging RDFa standard to embed ontologies and semantic annotations within its HTML based user interface . Sudeshna Das et al describe a scientific collaboration framework ( SCF ) with semantic underpinnings that is based on the popular content management system Drupal . The framework is designed to support interdisciplinary scientists in publishing , sharing and discussing content such as articles , perspectives , interviews and news items , as well as provide personal biographies and research interests – the basics of any online community . These web materials can then be linked to external knowledge repositories of life science entities such as genes , antibodies , cell lines or model organisms . Matthias Löbe et al outline how Semantic Web technology can play a simple but crucial role in organizing contact management for clinical experts . They designed a lightweight ontology that contains only the main concepts of clinical trials . Several relational database schemata were then mapped to this ontology . As a result , data quality was significantly improved with regard to syntax uniformity , completeness , consistency , and refresh period . Based on this data , they built an application for patients to search for experts depending on their indication and location .
3 . KEYNOTE TALKS We invited two keynote speakers : Greg Tucker Kellogg ( Chief Technology Officer , Lilly Center for Drug Discovery ) , and Mark Wilkinson ( Professor of Medical Genetics , University of British Columbia ) . Dr . Tucker Kellogg will address the challenges in managing information within the pharmaceutical industry , and for the role that the Semantic Web may play in this effort . Dr . Wilkinson will describe his work in bringing together Web Services and the Semantic Web . 4 . PANEL DISCUSSION Our workshop features a panel discussion . Experts in the field will serve as panelists to discuss topical issues at the intersection of Semantic Web and HCLS research . Panelists will be invited to discuss how to Asia is well positioned and stands to benefit from this combined approach . Audience participation will provide additional insight and discussion with panelist members . Details of the panel discussion are being planned at the time of writing this report . 5 . NEXT STEP This workshop serves as a start to broaden the participation of Asian research communities in Semantic Web for Health Care and Life Sciences . In the future , more efforts will be required to increase the interest of using Semantic Web in different HCLS sectors in Asia . In addition , we need to identify HCLS use cases for the Semantic Web communities in the East and in the West to work together . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We are very grateful for the support and endorsement by our program committee members . They are Dean Allemang , Christopher Baker , Olivier Bodenreider , Keith Boyce , Cory Brouwer , Bill Bug , Helen Chen , William Cheung , Tim Clark , Sudeshna Das , Don Doherty , Lee Feigenbaum , Andrew Gibson , Carole Goble , Yufeng Guo , Amarnath Gupta , Volker Haarslev , Peter Haase , William Hayes , Yusheng He , Ivan Herman , Vipul Kashyap , Marijke Keet , Phil Lord , M . Scott Marshall , Robin McEntire , Parsa Mirhaji , Mark Musen , Fabian Neuhaus , Eric Neumann , Chimezie Ogbuji , Elgar Pichler , Matthew Pocock , Daniel Rubin , Matthias Samwald , Susanna Sansone , Michael Schroeder , Nigam Shah , Amit Sheth , Robert Stevens , Rudi Studer , Adam West , Katy Wostencroft , Xuezhong Zhou . We would also like to give particular thanks to the WWW workshop organizer Irwin King for his great assistance in the process of organizing this workshop .
1274WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
