Web Page Rank Prediction with Markov Models
Michalis Vazirgiannis
INRIA Futurs Orsay , France mvazirg@aueb.gr
Dimitris Drosos Athens Univ . of
Economics & Business dimdrosos@aueb.gr
Athens , Greece
Pierre Senellart
INRIA Futurs & Univ . Paris Sud Orsay , France pierre@senellart.com
Akrivi Vlachou Athens Univ . of
Economics & Business avlachou@aueb.gr
Athens , Greece
ABSTRACT In this paper we propose a method for predicting the ranking position of a Web page . Assuming a set of successive past top k rankings , we study the evolution of Web pages in terms of ranking trend sequences used for Markov Models training , which are in turn used to predict future rankings . The predictions are highly accurate for all experimental setups and similarity measures .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications Data Mining
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurement
Keywords Ranking prediction , Markov Models
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Given the huge size of the Web graph , computing rankings of Web pages requires awesome resources—computations on matrices whose size is of the order of the size of the Web ( 109 nodes ) . Moreover , the ranking algorithm should be applied on recent Web graph snapshots to guarantee fresh and accurate results , which implies continuous crawling . This requirement poses a tough problem as it is practically impossible to crawl the whole Web graph in reasonable time intervals due to its huge size and dynamic nature .
Thus , given a high quality page ranking prediction mechanism , with known temporal robustness ( ie , prediction accuracy deterioration with time ) , a search engine can optimize its resources and schedule crawling efforts at times when the prediction accuracy falls under a threshold . Another important industry motivating rank predictions is advertising : pages with future high rank are attractive for placing advertisements .
In this paper we propose a framework that enables prediction of the ranking of Web pages , based on previous rank positions . We capitalize on trends of the Web pages through the rank change rate ( racer ) among different snapshots of the Web graph . We evaluate the prediction quality based
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . on the similarity of the predicted ranked lists to the actual ones . We focus on the top k elements of ranked list of Web pages , since these pages are more important for Web search . The problem of predicting PageRank is partly addressed in [ 4 ] , which focuses on Web page classification based on URL features . The authors report experiments for PageRank predictions using the extracted features using linear regression ; however , the complexity of this approach grows linearly in proportion to the number of features used . An approach that aims at approximating PageRank values without the need of performing the computations over the entire graph is that of Chien et al . [ 1 ] . The authors propose an efficient algorithm to incrementally compute approximations to PageRank , based on the evolution of the link structure of the Web graph . In [ 2 ] there is an algorithm that offers estimates of cumulative PageRank scores .
2 . THE PREDICTIONS FRAMEWORK
Rank Change Rate .
In order to predict future rankings of Web pages , we have adopted a measure ( racer ) we introduced in [ 5 ] for measuring page rank dynamics . It is defined as racer ( p , ti ) = 1 − nrank(p,ti+1 ) nrank(p,ti ) where nrank(p , ti ) is the normalized rank of page p at time ti .
Given a set of successive Web graph snapshots , for each page we generate a sequence of rank change rates that indicates the trends of this page among the previous snapshots . We use these sequences of previous snapshots of the Web graph as a training set for learning predictors to forecast the trends of a Web pages , with the following phases : a . Computing rank trends . We assume a set of successive Web graph snapshots crawled at different timestamps . Each Web page is associated with a rank position , indicating its importance in the particular snapshot . Thereafter , we compute racer as a measure of the page ’s rank trends . b . Markov Model ( MM ) states learning . To ensure that the accuracy and the coverage of the MM is high , distinct values appearing in rank change sequences are reduced to a manageable size by mapping each value to a representative equi probable value . These are used as states of the MM . Assuming d distinct racer values R = {r1 , . . . , rd} and the corresponding frequencies of each data value F = {f1 , . . . fd} the objective is to partition the data range [ r1 , rd ] of R into n non overlapping adjacent partitions Ri each corresponding to a data range [ rli , rui ] , with rli , rui the lower and the upper value of the Ri data range . Our algorithm takes as an input the set of the distinct racer values R and their frequencies F and returns the set S of the states of the Markov Model . After conducting enough experiments , we chose to fix the
1075WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China ( a ) OSim for DBLP
( b ) KSim for DBLP
( c ) OSim for Internet Archive ( d ) KSim for Internet Archive
Figure 1 : Prediction accuracy vs top k list length : DBLP and Internet Archive datasets cardinality of the MM set of states to n = 50 , which led to a reasonable prediction accuracy . The MM is trained based on previous snapshots of the Web graph and is used to predict the future rank of a Web page , by matching its current ranking change rate sequences to the MM paths . c . Predictions with racer . Assume m + 2 temporally successive crawls with respective snapshots . For each Web page , assuming it survives in all graph snapshots , a sequence of m + 1 racer values can be constructed . These sequences are used to construct an m order Markov Model ( MM ) for some fixed m . After computing transition probabilities for every path , using the generated racer sequences , the future racer values can be predicted using the chain rule : we predict the most probable value X based on the equation X = arg maxX P ( a1 → . . . → am → X ) where ai = racer ( pj , ti ) , ie , the racer value derived from snapshots ti and ti+1 for a page pj . Thus , we are able to predict future racer values for each Web page pj and therefore the future ranking position of pj .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
We performed experiments on two real world datasets : a bibliometric citation graph derived from DBLP ( http:// dblpuni trierde/ ) and a subset of the European Internet Archive ( http://wwweuroparchiveorg/ukgovphp ) In our experiments , we evaluate the prediction quality in terms of similarities between the predicted top k ranked lists and the actual ones , with two classical similarity measures for comparing top k lists [ 3 ] : OSim ( that captures the degree of overlap between the lists ) and KSim ( that captures the degree of agreement between the lists ) .
We built a graph structure from the DBLP dataset as follows : Nodes of the graph represent a publication and Edges represent the citations between papers , creating thus twelve snapshots of the graph corresponding to different time periods . Note that the structure of the DBLP graph is highly similar to the Web graph , while having the specificity that no links can appear for old papers to new papers . The Internet Archive dataset comprises of approximately 500 , 000 pages and refers to weekly collections of eleven UK government websites . We obtained 24 graph snapshots evenly distributed in time between Mar . 2004 and Jan . 2006 .
We evaluate the prediction performance of the prediction framework involving both datasets . We also consider a baseline prediction schemes , static , that just returns the top k list of the previous snapshot ( ie , we consider that all pages remained at the same rank ) . We computed PageRank scores for each snapshot of the DBLP and Internet Archive datasets , ordered the pages and calculated the racer values for each pair of consecutive graph snapshots . Based on these partitions , we constructed m order MM s for m ∈ {1 , 2} . Then for each page p we predict a ranking which is compared to its actual ranking after using 10 fold cross validation .
In Figure 1 , we present the prediction accuracy of the framework for 1st and 2nd order MM s , compared to the static baseline scheme . The prediction quality is depicted by the respective OSim and KSim values . For each experiment we calculate the similarity between the predicted and the actual ranking and measure the prediction quality for various top k lists , 10 ≤ k ≤ 300 . The first two graphs of Figure 1 illustrate the predictive quality of the framework for the DBLP dataset , the first one with OSim and the second one with KSim . In both cases , our predictions outperform the baseline . Our predictions for the Internet Archive dataset can be seen in the last two graphs of Figure 1 . Again the proposed framework outperforms the static baseline for both similarity measures . The 2nd order MM performs systematically better than the 1st order MM .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we propose a method for predicting the future rank of a Web page . We conducted experiments on realworld datasets that yield very encouraging results , achieving high prediction accuracy . Our predictions outperform the various baseline approaches we have adopted for all similarity measures and MM orders , across all datasets used . This framework is thus a meaningful tool for rank predictions in the Web graph . Further work will focus on the following issues : i . Conduct experiments for query based ranked lists , ii . Elaborate on statistical learning methods for a priori selection of the optimal MM parameters .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Chien , C . Dwork , R . Kumar , D . R . Simon , and
D . Sivakumar . Link evolution : Analysis and algorithms . Internet Mathematics , 1(3):277–304 , 2003 .
[ 2 ] J . V . Davis and I . S . Dhillon . Estimating the global
PageRank of Web communities . In Proc . KDD , Philadelphia , USA , Aug . 2006 .
[ 3 ] T . H . Haveliwala . Topic sensitive PageRank . In Proc .
WWW , Honolulu , USA , May 2002 .
[ 4 ] M Y Kan and H . O . N . Thi . Fast webpage classification using URL features . In Proc . CIKM , Bremen , Germany , Oct . 2005 .
[ 5 ] A . Vlachou , K . Berberich , and M . Vazirgiannis .
Representing and quantifying rank change for the Web graph . In Proc . WAW , Banff , Canada , Nov . 2006 .
1076WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
