Personalized Multimedia Web Summarizer for Tourist
Xiao Wu , Jintao Li ,
Yongdong Zhang , Sheng Tang
Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing
Institute of Computing Technology , CAS , Beijing , China
{wuxiao , jtli , zhyd , ts}@ictaccn
Shi Yong Neo
Department of Computer Science National University of Singapore neoshiyo@compnusedusg
Singapore
ABSTRACT In this paper , we highlight the use of multimedia technology in generating intrinsic summaries of tourism related information . The system utilizes an automated process to gather , filter and classify information on various tourist spots on the Web . The end result present to the user is a personalized multimedia summary generated with respect to users queries filled with text , image , video and real time news made retrievable for mobile devices . Preliminary experiments demonstrate the superiority of our presentation scheme to traditional methods .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Search Process General Terms Design , Experimentation Keywords Classification , Summarization , Video and Image Analysis
1 . INTRODUCTION The growth of internet in recent years results in an explosion of free multimedia content . Being a free platform for information sourcing , it is not surprising to see more and more users surfing or “ googling ” places of interest online to obtain extra information before even visiting them . Besides the usual official websites depicting information on these places of interest , there is also a huge amount of traveler ’s blogs , sightseeing photos and videos posted from end users . Often , users waste much of the time trying to search for the information he needs rather than the reading through the information . Most information presented to the user is at website basis , which means users have to scrutinize through the chunks of details to obtain what they really wants as different users might be looking for different content . The challenge is to provide a personalized multimedia tourism information retrieval by analyzing the user query and providing most relevant materials which are most interesting . Most previous researches and official travel agencies uses GPS based mobile tourism application and generalized tourist spot introduction . For example , personalized multimedia presentation for sightseeing is studied in [ 1 ] to facilitate the individual decision for budget traveling . Location based mobile tourism application and system proposed in [ 2 ] aims to provide guidance everywhere . However , less attention is paid to the problem of how to exploit previous tourists’ experiences on Web into personalized summary , ie mining the huge amount of multimedia content generated during user ’s sightseeing and personalize summary for different queries . The problem is of great importance because the summary is valuable for future visitors to know about a place .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
In this research , our motivation is to present summaries using online tourism information such from official websites , online encyclopedia , blogs , photos and videos , which exhibit the views of tourist spots in a personalized manner to user . We first obtain tourism related data from various websites . This is followed by analyzing them to distinguish the more important ones , denote as Keys . State of art algorithms such as high level concept and near duplicate detection are adopted to understand visual content . Finally Keys is returned to the user depending on the user ’s query .
2 . OBTAINING AND CLASSIFYING MULTIMEDIA TOURISM INFORMATION Previous tourist generated multimedia information available online are often used by users as tour guidance and suggestions . For example , millions of travelers are attracted to China every year by its brilliant ancient culture . The output of these travelers is a huge amount of tourism articles , photos and videos on various tourist spots publish on the Web . 2.1 Information Extraction We first perform Web information extraction to obtain tourism metadata . Taking tagging quality and user popularity into consideration , we extract organized texts , geo tagged images and categorized videos separately from Wikipedia , Flickr , Youtube and official tourism website . Using the tourist spot name to query the websites , as shown in Fig 1 , tourism multimedia data in result lists is crawled and regrouped into location based data pools . In simple terms , each set of data relevant to a specific tourist spot contains three groups : extracted texts , images and videos .
Figure 1 . Query result lists from wikipedia , flickr and youtube using “ Tian Tan ” ( temple of heaven ) as the query
2.2 Classification of Keys In this work , we attempt to classify elements or Keys ( can be a key point like a paragraph of text , an image or a segment of video ) in the set of extracted multimedia data so as to handle user ’s query effectively . The main idea is to give each Key an intuitive description class . For example , a picture showing the building exterior is “ outdoor scenery ” ; while a paragraph of text depicting past events is “ history ” . The classes we predefined are : history , landscape , indoor scenery , outdoor scenery and general . By knowing the genre of Keys , we can provide users with more relevant information through query analysis .
1025WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Textual Keys are directly extracted automatically from Wikipedia and official tourism websites . They are classified using a text classifier which indicates whether the text provide descriptions to the landscape , history or general . The text classifier is built on [ 3 ] which is used for identifying news genre from news articles . Visual Keys ( images and videos ) adopt high level concept detection schemes . We choose 9 visual concept detectors from [ 4 ] , ie Person , Crowd , Waterscape , Sky , Mountain , Vegetation , Building , Indoor and Outdoor to give semantic to visual Keys . Table.1 shows the correlation between Keys and respective genre .
Table 1 . The correlation between Keys and genre
Visual Concepts of Keys for ranking
Textual and visual Keys combination
Text Text attributes Keys genre general history landscape
Sky , Water , Mountain , vegetation , outdoor
Text + Photos + videos
Indoor scenery outdoor scenery
Photos + videos photos + videos
Person , indoor , building Building , outdoor , sky , person , crowd , outdoor 2.3 Giving Importance to Keys We use the reliability of text classifier as the Importance for textual Keys re ranking . For each visual Key , 9 high level concept [ 4 ] scores are calculated and the linear weighting scheme is adopted as follow , to compute the relevance to each visual genre .
( 1 ) iK denotes the Key and GE is the relevance to a visual where genre . Hence Keys could be mapped as sample points in 3D genre space as illustrated in Fig 2 ( a ) . By projecting each Key on 3 axes , Keys are reranked into 3 orders to evaluate Importance for genres .
Concept Score K
= ∑
GE K
(
_
) i
) i
( j j
Figure 2 . Ranking importance of visual Keys of “ Tian Tan ” ( a ) Photos and keyframes are mapped into 3D genre space
( b ) Near duplicate detection using local feature points matching 2.4 Filtering Noise and Duplicate Removal Visual data clawed from sharing websites contain noises which is not relevant to tourism . We use genre space model and near duplicate detection [ 5 ] to filter out noises . First irrelevant Keys with very low GE score are discarded . Second duplicated photos and shots are detected ( as in Fig 2 ( b ) ) and clustered to find out visual data of tourist spot and then eliminate the noises .
3 . QUERY ANALYSIS AND SUMMARY By analyzing query keywords ( as in Table.2 ) , Keys of certain class of a tourist spot are summarized and returned to users . First , we determine the required tourist spot by capturing key query words . Subsequently , we return Keys particular in respect to the user ’s requirement . For example : the query “ What is the historical background of Tian Tan ? ” is directed towards the history aspect and history Keys should be returned . Table 2 shows how the various types of queries interact with the genre of Keys .
Query
Genre general history
Landscape indoor outdoor
Table 2 . Relating query to genre of tourism query
Relevant keywords in Query Text ( query is given by users in English )
Queries only contain tourist site name ; queries with general terms ( eg how , what , weather ( “ 气候 ” ) ) Queries with culture terms ( eg famous person names , history ( “ 历史 ” ) , custom ( “ 风俗 ” ) )
Queries with sightseeing terms ( eg landscape , name of nature scene , spectacle ( “ 奇观 ” ) )
Queries with entertainment terms ( eg buy , games ) Queries with view terms ( eg name of building and city sites , park ( “ 公园 ” ) , sites ( “ 景点 ” ) )
To facilitate tourists who surf from mobile devices , we aim to provide a concise summary by : ( a ) returning Keys which are ranked highest ; ( b ) porting to formats such as 3GPP or FLV which is playable directly on mobile phones . In addition , latest news reports ( crawled automatically from online news sites ) if available , about the required tourist spot is also returned . This information can prepare the tourist for unforeseen circumstances like temporary closure for maintenance or bad weather . 4 . EXPERIMENTS We carry out a prelim assessment on this work . A group of 20 users are chosen to compare the results of this summarizer to searching for information online . From the feedback , 19 users found our system to provide sufficient details on what they need , and 12 users found more information using our system than surfing online themselves . This work is currently in the prelim stages and we are looking towards more comprehensive testing . 5 . CONCLUSION In this work , we introduce an automated process to gather , filter and classify information known as Keys on various tourist spots on the Web . A personalized multimedia summary filled with text , image and video is generated with respect to user ’s queries Prelim experiments with users demonstrate the superiority of our presentation scheme to traditional methods . 6 . ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by the National High Technology and Research Development Program of China ( 863 Program , 2007AA01Z416 ) , the National Nature Science Foundation of China ( 60773056 ) , the National Basic Research Program of China ( 973 Program , 2007CB311100 ) and the Beijing New Star Project on Science & Technology ( 2007B071 ) . 7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Scherp , S . Boll . Generic Support for Personalized Mobile Multimedia Tourist Applications . ACM Multimedia , 2004 . [ 2 ] Schmidt Belz , B . , Poslad . Personalized and Location based Mobile Tourism Services . Workshop on "Mobile Tourism Support Systems" in conjunction with Mobile HCI , 2002 .
[ 3 ] S Y Neo , Y . Ran , H K Goh , Y . Zheng , T S Chua , J . Li . The Use of Topic Evolution to help Users Browse and Find Answers in News Video Corpus . ACM Multimedia , 2007 .
[ 4 ] S . Tang , Y . Zhang , etc . TRECVID 2007 High Level Feature Extraction by MCG ICT CAS . TRECVID workshop , 2007 . [ 5 ] Y . T . Zheng , S . Y . Neo , etc . Fast Near duplicate Keyframe
Detection in Large scale Corpus for Video Search . IWAIT07 .
1026WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
