Which “ Apple ” Are You Talking About ?
Mandar A . Rahurkar
University of Illinois rahurkar@uiuc.edu
Dan Roth
University of Illinois danr@csuiucedu
Thomas S . Huang University of Illinois huang@ifpuiucedu
ABSTRACT In a higher level task such as clustering of web results or word sense disambiguation , knowledge of all possible distinct concepts in which an ambiguous word can be expressed would be advantageous , for instance in determining the number of clusters in case of clustering web search results . We propose an algorithm to generate such a ranked list of distinct concepts associated with an ambiguous word . Concepts which are popular in terms of usage are ranked higher . We evaluate the coverage of the concepts inferred from our algorithm on the results retrieved by querying the ambiguous word using a major search engine and show a coverage of 85 % for top 30 documents averaged over all keywords .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Systems ] : Clustering General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation .
Keywords Wikipedia , Concepts , Clustering
1 .
INTRODUCTION AND PRIOR WORK
Consider an ambiguous query [ 3 ] “ apple ” queried on a search engine . The search relevance can be improved if we know which “ apple ” user is interested in . One of the better ways to present the relevant search results would be to cluster the results wherein we have a cluster for each distinct concept in which the word apple can be used , e.g , Apple ( corporation ) or Apple ( fruit ) . However most clustering algorithms require the number of clusters as an input . This requires multiple iterations seeking an optimal number based on some statistical criteria which may or may not guarantee consistency within and across different clusters . Thus , in this example as well as other applications including word sense disambiguation , knowing number of unique concepts in which a word can be used would be an invaluable asset . In this poster we propose an algorithm to determine all possible unique concepts for a given ambiguous word . We do so by using the Wikipedia . Wikipedia has been recently used for named entity disambiguation [ 1 ] and word sense disambiguation(WSD ) [ 2 ] tasks . In [ 2 ] contextual text surrounding the ambiguous word in addition to the word itself is used without explicitly enumerating the distinct concepts of the
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . ambiguous word . In case of web queries which are typically very short such an approach may not be an option .
2 . DATA
Wikipedia is a collection of articles where each article defines and describes an entity or an event . Each article may have several hyperlinks to the other pages within or outside Wikipedia and is uniquely referenced by a title . Title is composed of one or more words and occasionally an explanation in parenthesis clarifying the context of the article . For example , the article for mercury with the meaning of “ automobile ” has the unique identifier mercury ( automobile ) . Ambiguous surface form is hyper linked to the appropriate article using a pipe , eg , link from the word orange to an article on Orange Color ( if applicable ) , as in [ [Orange ( Color)|Orange] ] . This can generally be represented as [ [Concept Identifier| Surface form ] ] pair . The phrase “ concept identifier ” and the word concept is used interchangeably . We use this structural information within the Wikipedia to identify possible concepts for a given ambiguous word . Since these links have been manually created and reviewed by a large diverse audience , they are accurate in referencing the article clarifying the context in which the surface form has been used .
3 . ALGORITHM
We parse the Wikipedia1 to extract all the hyperlinked occurrences of a word . While parsing , the disambiguation pages , pages associated with dates and pages enumerating the lists are excluded . Wikipedia , being updated regularly by a diverse group of people reflects the realistic use of these concepts . Therefore , we use the occurrence count in the first pass to obtain the ranked list R . of concepts associated with = {C1 , C2 , . . . , Cn} and rank of Ci > a keyword such that R . rank of Cj for i < j . Top 20 such concepts for ambiguous keyword “ Bush ” are enumerated in table 1 .
Most surface forms are found to associate with a large number of concepts , eg , surface form Orange is associated with about 150 concepts , Mercury with 110 concepts etc . However large number of these concepts might not be unique as seen in the table 1 where concepts “ george w . bush ” , “ george walker bush ” and “ george w bush ” represent the same concept . We re rank R . filtering it for the duplicate concepts . 3.1 Re Ranking the concept list
Consider a directed graph G = {V , E} where each vertex V , represents a Wikipedia article or a concept . There exists 1XML file dump as on September 07
1197WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Table 1 : Top 20 concepts for ambiguous query “ bush ” before the list is filtered and re ranked .
Rank 1 10 george w . bush bush ( band )
Rank 11 20 bush family bush alaska george h . w . bush george walker bush the bush shrub alaskan bush outback george hw bush bush ( canadian band ) uss bush ( dd 529 ) bush , alabama forest george herbert walker bush george w bush bush plane woody plant bush , illinois an outgoing edge from two vertices Vi and Vj , Vi → Vj , if there is an outgoing hyperlink from article i to j in the Wikipedia . Example graph is shown in figure 1 , where C1 and C2 might represent “ george w . bush ” and “ george walker bush ” . Given a ranked list R . containing concepts C1 , C2 , . . . , Ck we seek filtering measures to re rank the list and prune the duplicate concepts . If concept Ci ⊆ Cj under some measure M , then the concept Ci is subsumed If a concept Cj subsumes concepts by the concept Cj . Ci , Ck , . . . , Cl , the counts of these concepts are added to Cj thereby increasing its score and possibly the rank . Ranked list R . is processed sequentially starting with the concept node at the top of R . . Graph beginning from this node is parsed in a depth first search fashion to identify concepts Ci , where i > j such that Ci ⊆ Cj under the measure M defined later . Since there are cycles in the graph we halt processing of a node if we encounter its ancestor . We now compute three measures and combine them to re rank R . . The first measure checks for the existence of a bi directional link between the two concepts .
Mb(Ci , Cj ) = I((Cj → Ci ) ∧ ( Ci → Cj ) )
( 1 ) where , I is an Indicator variable . Thus , a concept Cj may subsume Ci if Mb = 1 . Mb measure however is a greedy measure and concept Ci may subsume weakly related concept Cj due to a presence of a bi directional link , eg , Orange Color and Syracuse Orange .
If two concepts share a subset of outbound and inbound links they are likely to be similar . The second and third measure ( not shown ) count the overlap between the inbound and outbound links . Operators In(C ) and Out(C ) return a set of inbound and outbound links for concept C and |x| returns the cardinality of the set x . MOB is similar to MIB but defined instead on the outbound links . «
„|In(Cm ) ∩ In(Cn)|
|In(Cm ) ∩ In(Cn)|
MIB ( Cm , Cn ) = max
|In(Cn)| The fourth measure combines these three measures ,
,
|In(Cm)| „
« α1MIB ( Cm , Cn)+α2MOB(Cm , Cn )
M ( Cm , Cn ) = Mb(Cm , Cn)× where , α1 + α2 = 1 . Measure M yields values in [ 0 , 1 ] , and a higher value indicates more similarity . A concept in list R . , Cj , subsumes Ci , where i > j if M ( Cm , Cn ) > P V al . P V al is determined empirically to be 024 Concepts which occur less than 5 times are discarded . The pruned concept lists for the ambiguous words bush and mercury are shown in table 2 .
Figure 1 : Concept Graph
Table 2 : Concepts after filtering the list R . words bush and Mercury for key
Bush
George W . Bush
Bush ( band ) Bush alaska
Forest
Bush LA
Mercury
Mercury ( element ) Mercury ( planet ) Mercury ( records )
Mercury ( mythology ) Mercury ( automobile )
4 . RESULT AND CONCLUSION
We evaluate the ranked list of concepts R by examining its coverage over top 30 results returned by a major search engine on querying the ambiguous words from [ 2 , 3 ] . Human annotators were shown the retrieved pages and asked to assign the concept to a page from the list R which best describes the content on that page , eg , Orange telecom for a page related to “ Orange mobile company ” . In addition to concepts in the list R associated with the ambiguous word , annotator could also assign the labels “ Can’t Say ” , “ Other : Not defined here ” and “ Tech Error ” in cases when they could not reliably identify a concept , or if the concept on webpage was not mentioned in the list or if an error occurred in loading a webpage . We obtained a percentage coverage of over 85 % for top 30 documents and 89 % for top 5 documents averaged across all the keywords . Coverage is low for the concept jordan because jordan in Wikipedia has not been used to refer to “ michael jordan , professor ” or several other firms by that name which were part of the retrieved results . Coverage should improve to an extent on using the latest version of the Wikipedia dump .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . Cucerzan . Large scale named entity disambiguation based on Wikipedia data . In Proceedings of EMNLP CoNLL 2007 , pages 708–716 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] R . Mihalcea . Using wikipedia for automatic word sense disambiguation . NAACL , 2007 .
[ 3 ] H J Zeng , Q C He , Z . Chen , W Y Ma , and J . Ma .
Learning to cluster web search results . SIGIR , July 2004 .
Table 3 : Percentage coverage for top 30 results obtained on issuing an ambiguous query .
Query Avg . Coverage Query Avg . Coverage apple bar bush clinton ford jaguar jobs jordan
100.00 83.33 90.00 73.33 100.00 86.67 96.67 66.67 lincoln matrix orange quotes saturn tiger ups
73.33 66.67 80.00 90.00 96.67 86.67 93.33
1198WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
