Generating Hypotheses from the Web
Dept . of Computer Science &
Wei Jin
Engineering
University of Buffalo , SUNY wjin2@buffalo.edu
Rohini K . Srihari
Abhishek Singh
Dept . of Computer Science &
Dept . of Computer Science &
Engineering
University at Buffalo , SUNY rohini@cedarbuffaloedu
Engineering
University at Buffalo , SUNY singh5@cedarbuffaloedu
ABSTRACT Hypothesis generation is a crucial initial step for making scientific discoveries . This paper addresses the problem of automatically discovering interesting hypotheses from the web . Given a query containing one or interest , our algorithm automatically generates a semantic profile describing the specified entity or provides the potential connections between two entities of interest . We implemented a prototype on top of the Google search engine and the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithms . two entities of
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : search process General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation Keywords : web search , link analysis , hypothesis generation
1 . INTRODUCTION Finding the information about an entity or the relationships between two entities on the Web is a novel and challenging problem . Existing Web search engines excel in keyword matching and document ranking , but they cannot well handle such queries . In this paper , we treat the Web as a huge text database , and attempt to find the information concerning a specified entity and discover relationships between two entities of interest from unstructured documents . A traditional search involving , for example , two person names will attempt to find documents mentioning both of these individuals . This research focuses on a different interpretation of such a relationship query : what is the best connection and evidence across multiple documents that may potentially connect two individuals may not co occur in any single document , but they can still share some fact that they live in trailer parks ( even though not the same trailer park ) in different documents . This information is gleaned from multiple documents and existing Web search engines cannot help much in finding the answer . In this paper , we propose a method to handle such a query assuming that one or more instances of both entities occur in the corpus , but not necessarily in the same document . two persons ? For example these
2 . RELATED WORK Much of the work in hypotheses generation makes use of an idea originated by Swanson in the 1980s . He proposed a simple “ A influences B , and B influences C , therefore A may influence C ” model that is commonly referred as Swanson ’s ABC model [ 1 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . the MEDLINE database
Built within this discovery framework , [ 2 , 3 ] used domainspecific knowledge and to find relationships between two biomedical entities . However , those methods proposed in [ 2 , 3 ] do not work for general relationship queries in general text collections . [ 4 ] presented a model of using Stepping Stones and Pathways ( SSP ) to connect topics in document collections . However , the proposed method has some limitations when working with Web pages . For example , that method first forms a query Q that contains both entities and uses Q to retrieve an intermediate document set from the collection . In the case of a Web search engine , this may lead to the situation that either no document is returned or all returned documents are related to a single entity . Moreover , that method cannot discover useful but non obvious information across multiple documents . Recently [ 5 ] proposed a new method for answering relationship queries on two entities on the Web . It generates an ordered list of Web page pairs . Each Web page pair consists of one Web page for either entity and the potential connecting terms capturing the relationships are identified . The limitation of this approach is that it can only find one level of intermediate connecting terms ( ie A→B→C ) , whereas our method provides a mechanism that supports generating a multi level path ( ie A→B1→þ→Bn→C ) , which is extremely useful when there is very little information available between entities , in which case the associations between them are often more than one level of transitivity . Second , the method proposed in [ 6 ] needs the searcher to further analyze these potential connecting terms to find exact answers to queries . In contrast , this postprocessing step is coupled with our algorithm to facilitate interpretation of the importance of linking terms and exact answers to queries are provided to the searcher directly .
3 . ANSWERING SINGLE ENTITY QUERY We introduce Entity Profile ( EP ) to answer single entity queries and EP is built by first obtaining Web pages W using Entity E as the query term from a Web search engine ( our experiments use Google ) , then reducing noise from obtained Web pages ( This involves HTML comments , JavaScript code , tags removal and traditional IR based preprocessing steps such as stopwords removal ) , then identifying a relevant set of passages ( our experiments use sentences ) from the cleaned documents and then identifying characteristic terms from these passages and assessing their relative importance as descriptors of entity E . We assume the most useful information is typically centered around the entity and use windowing ( eg sentences ) to obtain this information ( This is necessary because of the large amount of noise in the returned Web pages ) . Formally , the entity profile is presented as a weighting vector of all unique terms that occur in the local context of Entity E . We denote the set of passages in W
1211WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China containing E by S(E ) and the size of the set by |S(E)| . Profile ( E ) is automatically learned and defined as follows :
Pr ofile
(
E
)
ωω= e c 11 ,
{
, e c
2
,
2 ,
,
ω ke , c k
,
} L
L
( 1 )
Where ck occurs in the local context of Entity E and ωe,k represents the relative importance of term ck as a descriptor of entity E and is defined as follows :
1 shows a portion of entity profile generated for ‘Bin ladin’ . Figure 1 presents a partial graphic visualization of the relationships between entities ‘Bush’ and ‘Bin Ladin’ with a maximum allowable path length of 3 . We also observe that some links ( eg Al qaeda & Afghanistan ) are captured by different passages in different documents .
Table 1 . Entity profile for ‘Bin Ladin’ ( Top 6 Terms )
ω ke ,
=
1 log(
+
EcP
(
| k
( ) ω c k
) )
( 2 )
P ( ck|E ) can be thought of as the probability that term ck co relates with E , ie , cP ( k
|
E
)
= cN , ( k ES ( |
E | )
)
( 3 )
Where N ( ck , E ) represents the number of times term ck and entity E co occur in passages across W . ω(ck ) is the impact weight for term ck when generating entity profiles . We assume that the terms also appearing frequently in W S(E ) are less important , thus ,
ω
( c k
)
= log(
1 |
|
N + cN ( k
| − | )
| −
ES ( cN (
| ) , k
)
E
)
1
+
( 4 )
Where |N| is the number of passages in W , | N(ck ) | is the number of passages containing term ck .
Saudi
Afghanistan
Sudan Islamic Taliban Al qaeda
0.809565 0.720114 0.663566 0.679435 0.646188 0.626979 relationships between
4 . ANSWERING RELATIONSHIP QUERY Given two entities of interest , the relationship query is handled by first retrieving from the Web search engine the top N relevant web pages for either entity . After cleaning and preprocessing steps , the union of documents retrieved for either entity respectively is represented as an undirected labeled graph where nodes represent unique terms occurring in the texts and edges denote the proximity ( eg sentences ) . Edge weights represent the strength of relationships between adjacent terms and are calculated based on the similarity between their respective contexts . Formally , for each node ( including query nodes ) in the graph , an entity profile is constructed using the method described in the previous section and weights are then calculated by Si,j defined below . Definition : Let for term ci and cj respectively . Further , let similarity matrix . Then , each Si,j is defined as : be two entity profile vectors be a scalar in passages terms and
, jiS (
S =
( jc ep
) ep
( ic
)
)
S i
, j
= ep ep c ( c ( i i
) )
•
× j ep ep c ( c (
) ) j
( 5 )
The relationship query is then answered by retrieving and ranking the potential paths connecting entities of interest in the graph . The process is similar to the algorithm proposed in [ 6 ] except that a graphic visualization of the new transitive associations discovered together with the direct association is provided here which improves the understanding of the interaction between entities and their strongly correlated terms .
5 . EXPERIMENTS We have implemented a prototype of the proposed techniques on top of the Google search engine . Some preliminary results are shown below where the top 5 documents for one entity or either entity ( in relationship queries ) were retrieved from Google . Table
Fig 1 . Relationships between “ Bush ” and “ Bin Ladin ”
6 . CONCLUSIONS This paper addresses the problem of generating hypotheses from the web . We propose a method of generating entity profiles to answer single entity queries and exploring potential linkages via ranked intermediate terms when answering relationship queries . The method can also find cross document links where existing Web search engines may not help much in finding the answer , and these non obvious links across multiple documents may help to discover knowledge for generating hypotheses . These advantages are verified through a prototype implementation of our method on top of the Google search engine .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Swason , D . R . Complementary Structures in Disjoint Science
Literatures . ACM SIGIR ( 1991 ) , 280 289 .
[ 2 ] Smalheiser , N . R . The Arrowsmith Project : 2005 Status
Report . Discovery Science 2005 : 26 43 .
[ 3 ] Srinivasan , P . Text Mining : Generating Hypotheses from
MEDLINE . JASIST 55(5 ) : 396 413 , 2004 .
[ 4 ] Das Neves , F . , Fox , E . A . and Yu , X . Connecting Topics in Document Collections with Stepping Stones and Pathways . CIKM '05 , ACM Press , Bremen , Ger . , Nov . 2005 , pp . 91 98 .
[ 5 ] Luo , G . , Tang , C . and Tian , Y . Answering Relationship
Queries on the Web . WWW2007 , pp . 561 570 .
[ 6 ] Jin , W . , Srihari , R . K . , Ho , H . and Wu , X . “ Improving
Knowledge Discovery in Document Collections through Combining Text Retrieval and Link Analysis Techniques ” . ( ICDM’07 ) , pp193 202
1212WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
