First Workshop on Targeting and Ranking for Online
Advertising
Ewa Dominowska Microsoft Corporation
USA ewad@microsoft.com
Vanja Josifovski Yahoo! Research
USA vanjaj@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Online advertising is a rapidly growing , multi billion dollar industry . It has become a significant element of the Web browsing experience . Ad platforms used for ad selection use sophisticated targeting and ranking algorithms with the dual aim of maximizing revenue while providing a superior user experience . As a result , advertising optimization is a very complex research problem , since it combines relevance with user interaction models , advertiser valuations , and commercial constraints . Online advertising integrates a number of core research areas : machine learning , data mining , search , auction theory , and user modeling .
This workshop is intended to serve as an open forum for discussion of new ideas and current research in the field of online advertising . The primary goal is to promote a community of researchers interested in this area and yield future collaboration and exchanges . The research included will address problems faced by all the participants in the online advertising process : advertisers , end users , advertising platforms and web publishers .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems Applications ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Measurements
Keywords Online Advertising , Targeting , Ranking of Online Advertising
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Web advertising supports a large segment of today ’s Internet ecosystem . The total internet advertiser spend in 2007 is estimated at almost $20 billion dollars with a growth rate of almost 20 % year over year 1 . Web advertising spans Web technology , sociology , law , and economics . It has already surpassed some traditional mass media like broadcast radio and it is the economic engine that drives Web development .
1http://wwwemarketercom/Articleaspx?id=1004635
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , A pril 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
It has become a fundamental part of the web eco system and touches the way content is created , shared , and disseminated all the way from static html pages to more dynamic content such as blogs and podcasts , to social media such as discussion boards and tags on shared photographs . Today , all major search engines and the a large portion of web sites exhibit some form of online advertising ; online advertising has become a very significant element of the Web browsing experience . This revolution promises to fundamentally change both the media and the advertising businesses over the next few years , altering a $300 billion economic landscape .
As in classic advertising , in terms of goals , web advertising can be split into brand advertising whose goal is to create a distinct favorable image for the advertiser ’s product , and direct marketing advertising that involves a ” direct response ” : buy , subscribe , vote , donate , etc , now or soon . In terms of delivery , there are two major types :
1 . Search advertising refers to the ads displayed alongside the ” organic ” results on the pages of the Internet search engines . This type of advertising is mostly direct marketing and supports a variety of retailers from large to small , including micro retailers that cover specialized niche markets . 2 . Content advertising refers to ads displayed alongside some publisher produced content , akin to traditional ads displayed in newspapers . It includes both brand advertising and direct marketing . Today , almost all non transactional web sites rely on revenue from content advertising . This type of advertising supports sites that range from individual bloggers and small community pages , to the web sites of major newspapers . There would have been a lot less to read on the web without this model!
A key advantage of the Web advertising is that it is easy to track the feedback of the users in form of clicks or other interaction with the advertisements . Furthermore , online advertising allows sophisticated ad targeting and ranking algorithms with the dual aim of maximizing revenue while providing a superior user experience . As a result , advertising optimization is a very complex research problem , since it combines relevance with user interaction models , advertiser valuations , and commercial constraints . Online advertising platforms require scalable implementations of many machine learning and data mining techniques combined with serving architectures capable of ad ranking in a few hundreds of milliseconds , billions of times per day .
There are parallels between advertisement ranking and search result ranking , but there are also core differences and new areas of research . For example , ads should be matched
1269WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China to the commercial intent of the users rather then to their information needs . Another difference is that ads are short snippets of text with very much condensed information with specific linguistic features . Searching this type of documents is different than most of the text and web search scenarios . Finally , in contrast with the web search where the engine always shows the top results , ads are not required , and ad search engines can decide to return fewer ads , or no ads at all . These are only a few illustrative examples , we believe that the ad search and ranking problem has enough specificity that a forum is need to explore and discuss these .
2 . THEME AND TOPICS
The workshop is intended to cover a wide range of topics on online advertising , with a focus on research on targeting and ranking of relevant advertisements . The research should address problems faced by advertiser , end users , advertising platforms , and the market . The topics range across the following themes :
( cid:129 ) Ad relevance evaluation ( cid:129 ) Query expansion rewrite augmentation for improved ad selection
( cid:129 ) Semantic ad relevance improvements
( cid:129 ) Personalization of ads ( cid:129 ) User intent evaluation ( including : commercial intent detection )
( cid:129 ) Measures and metrics for online advertising ( cid:129 ) Ad ranking , return on investment , and yield optimiza tion techniques
( cid:129 ) Web content analysis for ad selection ( keyword extrac tion , categorization , and summarization )
( cid:129 ) Behavioral targeting and retargeting for online adver tising
( cid:129 ) Detection of ad aggregator and spam advertisers ( cid:129 ) Fraud and low quality traffic detection ( cid:129 ) Video advertising and interactive ad formats ( cid:129 ) Optimization for guaranteed delivery advertising ( cid:129 ) Forecasting of click rates and impressions ( cid:129 ) Advertising system performance and scaling ( cid:129 ) Data sources for research ( cid:129 ) Advertising in faceted search and category based ads ( cid:129 ) Preserving user , advertiser and publisher privacy ( cid:129 ) New auction and business models for online advertising
1270WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
