Model Bloggers’ Interests Based on Forgetting Mechanism Yuan Cheng1 , Guang Qiu2 , Jiajun Bu*2 , Kangmiao Liu2 , Ye Han3 , Can Wang2 , Chun Chen2
1College of Software Technology 2,3College of Computer Science
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou 310027 , China
*Corresponding Author , +86 571 87952148
1star_926@msn.com 2{qiuguang , bjj , lkm , wcan , chenc}@zjueducn 3hanyezju@gmailcom ABSTRACT ( 1 ) Similar to memory , human interests wane as time goes by ( 2 ) Forgetting speed slows down gradually and the accumulated Blogs have been expanded at an incredible speed in recent years . interests become more stable . Based on the two principles above , Plentiful personal information makes blogs a popular way mining we construct two interest models for different purposes . STIM : user profiles . In this paper , we propose a novel bloggers’ interests bloggers’ recent interests with weak stability ; LTIM : accumulated modeling approach based on forgetting mechanism . A new interest status after a long period with strong stability . forgetting function is introduced to track interest drift . Based on that , the Short Term Interest Models ( STIM ) and Long Term 2 . MAIN APPROACH Interest Models ( LTIM ) are constructed to describe bloggers’ 2.1 Model Representation short term and long term interests . The experiments show that both models can identify bloggers’ preferences well respectively . In our approach , interest models are represented by vectors V= {(c1 , w1 , tj ) , ( c2 , w2 , tj),…,(cm , wm , tj)} . We predefine m interest categories {c1 , c2 , c,,,cm} and each category ci is associated with a weight wi according to its cohesion with users’ interests . The term tj denotes the timestamp when the model is constructed . Post vectors are the foundation of our blogger modeling work . Each category ci in the vector is assigned with a weight wi which denotes the probability this post belongs to ci . The probability is given through the process of text classification ( we use Naive Bayes classification model in our work ) . 2.2 Interest Forgetting Function As an important part of our approach , the forgetting function is implemented to simulate the attenuation of users’ interests as shown in the following equation : t est ln 2 ( × − hl
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – information filtering , Retrieval models .
Keywords Blog , short term interests , long term interests , interest forgetting
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Experimentation , Human Factors .
)
F t ( )
−= e
( 1 )
1 . INTRODUCTION Blog , considered as an online diary publishing platform , has been in favor with numerous web users . People are more willing to share feelings and interests with friends through this interactive web media . Flourish of blog provides researchers with an ideal channel to access people ’s personal information especially their interests which contain credible value for business use . Four Characteristics make blogs unique from other web applications [ 1 ] . ( 1 ) Highly personal and rapidly evolving content . ( 2 ) All posts lists in chronological order . ( 3 ) Highly related to users’ interests . ( 4 ) Linking bloggers form a community . So far , most researches focused only on one of these features . [ 1 ] proposed a combined classifier ( Naïve Bayes , SVM and Rocchio ) to identify bloggers’ interests from single posts . [ 2 ] analyzed how blog communities can be discovered through interconnected blogs as a form of social hypertext . However , few covered multiple blog features . [ 3 ] discussed the feasibility to detect interests using textual , temporal , and interactive features but it did not give out a practical modeling method . In this paper , we model bloggers’ interests based on forgetting mechanism . Our method combines textual and temporal features , which not only well identifies users’ interests from posts but also threads them in chronological order using a forgetting function . In addition , our approach follows two general ideas of psychologists :
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21 25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . where forgetting coefficient F(t ) means which percent the original interests have declined to ; t means the current date ; est means the date when the original model was established ; hl denotes the halflife ( in days ) controlling speed of forgetting . The larger hl is the slower interests fall . When t est=hl , F(t ) falls to 1/2 . 2.3 Short Term Interest Modeling To construct a STIM on a specific day , we firstly maintain a time window of size S ( the number of days ) over the most recent posts that are used for modeling . To determine the window size , we define four constants : MinDayLimit , MaxDayLimit , MinArticleNum and MaxArticleNum . Then we adopt the following three strategies to determine the size of window . ( 1 ) If PAN ( posted articles number ) >= MaxArticleNum within the past MinDayLimit days , S=MinDayLimit . ( 2 ) If PAN < MaxArticleNum within the past MinDayLimit days but PAN >= MinArticleNum within the past MaxDayLimit days , S=MaxDayLimit . ( 3 ) If PAN < MinArticleNum within the past MaxDayLimit days , this instance can not be considered as a valid timestamp to construct a STIM as there are too few articles within the time window to capture the interests of users . Suppose we get N posts from the time window of size S by Ts , we convert these post vectors from V= {(c1 , w1 , tj ) , ( c2 , w2 , tj),…,(cm , wm , tj)} to {(c1 , w1 , fj ) , ( c2 , w2 , fj),…,(cm , wm , fj)} . The forgetting
1129WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China coefficient fj is calculated through function ( 1 ) where cur=Ts and est=tj . We set hl to be a small value leading to fast forgetting . Weights of categories ci in the STIM are calculated as follows :
A vg IP P
(
)
10 0
∑ i ==
1
( n N i
/
)
1 00
( 6 ) s
W i n
= ∑ j
1 = w j ( ) i f j
( 2 ) s means the weight of ci in the STIM ; wi(j ) means the Where Wi weight of ci in the vector of the jth article . At last , we normalized Wi s to the interval [ 0 , 10 ] using the following method :
W i s
′ = s i W
W ∑ c C i
∈
×
10 s i
( 3 ) s',Ts)} s',Ts)(cn,Wm s',Ts)(c2,W2 The final format of STIM : V={(c1,W1 2.4 Long Term Interest Modeling Different from STIM , the LTIM describes users’ interest after a long period . Thus we adopt all their posts as modeling foundation . To simulate the interest accumulation process , whenever the blogger publishes a post , the system updates the original LTIM by integrating the new article ’s interest vector . The main formula for long term interest modeling is described as below :
V nl
=
V F ol d
×
1
N − N
+
V p
×
,
1 N
( 4 ) where Vnl denotes the updated LTIM ; Vol denotes the old LTIM established when last article was posted ; Vp is the vector of new article . ( N 1)/N and 1/N represent the weight of VolFd and VP . The initial Vol is the vector of the first posted article of blogs . Here , half life for LTIM is not a constant any more . As is described in the introduction section , bloggers’ interests are inclined to be more stable as time goes by . Based on that , we use the following forgetting formula to calculate coefficient Fd :
−
F t ( )
= e t est ln 2 ( ) × − d hl s + × acc
0
( 5 ) in l',Tl)(c2,W2 l',Tl),…,(cn,Wm
Where hl0 represents an initial half life value ; dacc denotes how many days the original LTIM has evolved . Constant s reflects the impact of dacc on forgetting speed . By involving factor dacc×s , bloggers’ interests fall more slowly than before . The final format l',Tl)} of STIM is V= {(c1,W1 3 . EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS We use NetEase Blog Directory ( blog163com ) to train our classifier . There are fifteen first level categories total : Education , Sport , Game , Multimedia , Modernlife , Star , Tour , Entertainment , Digital , Healthcare , Workandfinacing , Technology , Society , Family and Art . For each category , we collect 5000 articles as training sets . In the modeling phase , 100 popular blogs and 31409 contained posts are selected as test data . Currently , there exists no recognized method to evaluate the performance of interest modeling approaches . In our experiments , we adopt the precision of interest prediction ( IPP ) to evaluate the relativity between our modeling results and users’ interests . For a given interest model , we extract the first three dominant categories {C1 , C2 , C3} order by corresponding weights as prediction candidates . Then we classify the succeeding N posts and find out the interest category Cp with highest weight . If Cp belongs to {C1 , C2 , C3} , we think interests reflected by this article has been correctly predicted . Avg(IPP ) below shows the average precision of IPPs for 100 selected blogs .
Where ni denotes the number of correctly predicated article in the ith blog . To evaluate the performance of our approach , we set up a comparison group based on a general modeling method without forgetting mechanism , in which LTIMs are simply constructed by summing all posts’ vectors . We adopt both of them to construct LTIMs using the first 75 % articles of bloggers . The rest 25 % are kept for interest prediction . Here we set hl0=10 , s=0.5 for LTIM . Through experiments , Avg(IPP ) of the general modeling is 78.3 % ; Avg(IPP ) of our approach is 820 % We can see that our approach has evidently higher Avg(IPP ) than that of the general modeling . It proves interest accumulation is not only a simple summing process but also involving forgetting influence . We also notice that the difference between two Avg(IPP)s is not that far as we expected . The reason is that some categories of bloggers’ interests are so dominant that both approaches get the same candidate set . In the second part of the experiments , we compare the predication characteristics of the STIM and LTIM . We select 10 representative bloggers who post articles regularly and construct two models on the date when their 200th article was posted . Both models are used to predict the interests of the succeeding N posts ( N=10 , 20…100 ) . For short term interest model , we set hl=20 , MinDayLimit=20 , MaxDayLimit=30 , MinArticleNum=10 , MaxArticleNum=5 . Figure 1 shows the predication results . According to the figure , we find that STIM performs better when the predicated articles number N is relatively small . It manifests that STIM is more closed to users’ recent interest status . However , with increase of the article number , LTIM ’s predication ability goes up gradually and finally transcends STIM ’s . The prediction traits of STIM and LTIM revealed from Figure 1 successfully validate our original intention to set up these two models . identify bloggers’
Figure 1 . Avg ( IPP ) of STIM and LTIM for Different N 4 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK This paper proposes a comprehensive modeling approach to detect bloggers’ profiles . Forgetting mechanism is used aiming at dynamically simulating interest drift . Both STIMs and LTIMs are proved to be good identifiers of bloggers’ interests respectively . We are currently extending our work by integrating more features to interests such as comments , blogger communities . In addition , we also try to propose a method to determine personalized half life hl for every blogger which reflects people ’s distinct interest forgetting characteristics . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Xiaochuan Ni , et al . “ Automatic Identification of Chinese Weblogger Interests Based on Text Classification ” . In WI’ 2006 . [ 2 ] Alvin Chin , et al . “ A Social Hypertext Model for Finding Community in Blogs ” . In HT’06 . [ 3 ] Chun Yuan Teng , et al . “ Detection of Bloggers’ Interests : Using Textual , Temporal , and Interactive Features ” . In WI’2006
1130WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
