Fourth International Workshop on
Adversarial Information Retrieval on the Web
( AIRWeb 2008 )
Carlos Castillo Yahoo! Research Barcelona , Spain chato@yahoo inc.com
Kumar Chellapilla Microsoft Live Labs Redmond , WA , USA kumarc@microsoft.com
Dennis Fetterly Microsoft Research
Mountain View , CA , USA fetterly@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT Adversarial IR in general , and search engine spam , in particular , are engaging research topics with a real world impact for Web users , advertisers and publishers . The AIRWeb workshop will bring researchers and practitioners in these areas together , to present and discuss state of the art techniques as well as real world experiences . Given the continued growth in search engine spam creation and detection efforts , we expect interest in this AIRWeb to surpass that of the previous three editions of the workshop ( held jointly with WWW 2005 , SIGIR 2006 , and WWW 2007 respectively ) .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H35 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Online Information Services
General Terms Documentation
Keywords Adversarial information retrieval , web spam , spamdexing , search engine spam
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Before the advent of the World Wide Web , information retrieval algorithms were developed for relatively small and coherent document collections such as newspaper articles or book catalogs in a library . In comparison to these collections , the Web is massive , much less coherent , changes more rapidly , and is spread over geographically distributed computers [ 1 ] . Scaling information retrieval algorithms to the World Wide Web is a challenging task . Success to date is depicted by the ubiquitous use of search engines to access Internet content .
From the point of view of a search engine , the Web is a mix of two types of content : the “ closed Web ” and the “ open Web ” [ 2 ] . The closed web comprises a few high quality controlled collections which a search engine can fully trust . The “ open Web , ” on the other hand , includes the vast majority of Web pages , which lack an authority asserting their quality . The openness of the Web has been the key to its rapid
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . growth and success . However , this openness is also a major source of new challenges for information retrieval methods . Search engine spam is not a new problem ; it has been an important issue for commercial providers for a number of years , and is not likely to be solved in the near future . Web spam damages search engine reputation . It exploits and as a result weakens the trust relationship between users and search engines [ 6 ] . According to Henzinger et al . [ 7 ] , “ Spamming has become so prevalent that every commercial search engine has had to take measures to identify and remove spam . Without such measures , the quality of the rankings suffers severely . ” On the “ open web ” a naive application of ranking methods in no longer an option . For instance , PageRank [ 8 ] in its pure form is very susceptible to spam : the authors of [ 4 ] ranked 100 million pages using PageRank and found that 11 out of the top 20 were pornographic and achieved such high ranking through link manipulation .
Adversarial information retrieval is a research area in which several things remain to be discovered . Sahami et al . [ 9 ] have noted that “ Adversarial classification is an area in which precious little work has been done , but effective methods can provide large gains . ” Also , adversarial IR problems can be approached from many different perspectives , including information retrieval , machine learning and game theory .
2 . WORKSHOP TOPICS
Adversarial Information Retrieval addresses tasks such as gathering , indexing , filtering , retrieving and ranking information from collections wherein a subset has been manipulated maliciously [ 5 ] . On the Web , the predominant form of such manipulation is “ search engine spamming ” or spamdexing , ie : malicious attempts to influence the outcome of ranking algorithms , aimed at getting an undeserved high ranking for some items in the collection . There is an economic incentive to rank higher in search engines , considering that a good ranking on them is strongly correlated with more traffic , which often translates to more revenue [ 10 ] .
As in previous years , automatic detection of search engine spam is expected to be the dominant theme of this workshop . Three basic forms of web spam are included :
• Link spam
• Content spam
• Cloaking
1267 Several other adversarial IR topics that we welcome in clude :
• Blog spam filtering
• Click fraud detection
• Reverse engineering of ranking algorithms
• Web content filtering
• Advertisement blocking
• Stealth crawling
3 . WEB SPAM CHALLENGE
In 2007 , we introduced a novel element : the Web spam challenge . We released a reference collection for Web Spam Detection that comprises Web pages , a Web graph , and labels for a subset of the pages . Web pages in this collection were labeled as “ normal ” or “ spam ” by humans [ 3 ] . Using this data set , the challenge was to predict which pages in the unlabeled part of the data are spam and which are normal . For 2008 , we released an updated reference collection covering a significantly increased number of hosts . We also encouraged authors submitting papers on search engine spam to test their systems on the updated reference collection .
We ask that participating researchers submit predictions ( normal/spam ) for all unlabeled elements in the collection . Predictions will be evaluated on a part of the collection for which human provided labels will be held for testing . Results will be announced at the AIRWeb 2008 workshop .
The Web spam challenge serves a dual purpose : it allows the comparison of different systems , which has not been possible in the past for lack of a reference collection ; and it stimulates research on this area given its competitive nature .
4 . WORKSHOP ORGANIZATION
The proceedings of the workshop will be published online in the ACM Digital Library , as well as distributed at the workshop . The workshop program has not been finalized at the time of this writing . Once finalized , the program will be available from the AIRWeb website : http://airwebcselehighedu/2008/ 4.1 Program Committee
• Zolt´an Gy¨ongyi – Stanford University • Monika Henzinger – Google • Pranam Kolari – Yahoo! Applied Research • Mark Manasse – Microsoft Research • Marc Najork – Microsoft Research • Alexandros Ntoulas – Microsoft Research • Jan Pedersen – Yahoo! Research • Erik Selberg – Amazon.com • Torsten Suel – Polytechnic University • Mike Thelwall – University of Wolverhampton • Tao Yang – Ask.com • Baoning Wu – Snap.com
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Arvind Arasu , Junghoo Cho , Hector Garcia Molina , Andreas Paepcke , and Sriram Raghavan . Searching the web . ACM Transactions on Internet Technology ( TOIT ) , 1(1):2–43 , 2001 .
[ 2 ] Terrence A . Brooks . Web search : how the Web has changed information retrieval . Information Research , 8(3 ) , April 2003 .
[ 3 ] Carlos Castillo , Debora Donato , Luca Becchetti , Paolo
Boldi , Stefano Leonardi , Massimo Santini , and Sebastiano Vigna . A reference collection for web spam . SIGIR Forum , 40(2):11–24 , December 2006 .
[ 4 ] Nadav Eiron , Kevin S . Curley , and John A . Tomlin . Ranking the web frontier . In Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 309–318 , New York , NY , USA , 2004 . ACM Press . [ 5 ] Dennis Fetterly . Adversarial information retrieval :
The manipulation of web content . ACM Computing Reviews , July 2007 .
[ 6 ] Zolt´an Gy¨ongyi and Hector Garcia Molina . Spam : It ’s not just for inboxes anymore . IEEE Computer Magazine , 38(10):28–34 , 2005 .
[ 7 ] Monika R . Henzinger , Rajeev Motwani , and Craig
Silverstein . Challenges in web search engines . SIGIR Forum , 36(2):11–22 , 2002 .
[ 8 ] Lawrence Page , Sergey Brin , Rajeev Motwani , and
Terry Winograd . The PageRank citation ranking : bringing order to the Web . Technical report , Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project , 1998 .
We appreciate the service of the following researchers as
[ 9 ] Mehran Sahami , Vibhu Mittal , Shumeet Baluja , and
Program Committee members of the workshop :
• Einat Amitay – IBM • Andr´as Bencz´ur – Hungarian Academy of Sciences • James Caverlee – Texas A&M University • Paul Alexandru Chirita – Adobe • Gordon Cormack – University of Waterloo • Nick Craswell – Microsoft Research • Matt Cutts – Google • Brian Davison – Lehigh University • Ludovic Denoyer – University Paris 6 • Aaron D’Souza – Google • Edel Garcia – Mi Islita.com • Natalie Glance – Nielsen BuzzMetrics • Antonio Gulli – Ask.com
Henry Rowley . The happy searcher : Challenges in web information retrieval . In Trends in Artificial Intelligence , 8th Pacific Rim International Conference on Artificial Intelligence ( PRICAI ) , pages 3–12 , Auckland , New Zealand , August 2004 . Springer .
[ 10 ] Yi Min Wang , Ming Ma , Yuan Niu , and Hao Chen .
Spam double funnel : connecting web spammers with advertisers . In WWW ’07 : Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World Wide Web , pages 291–300 , New York , NY , USA , 2007 . ACM Press .
