Automatic Online News Issue Construction in Web
Environment*
Canhui Wang , Min Zhang , Shaoping Ma , Liyun Ru
State Key Lab of Intelligent technology & systems ,
Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology ,
CS&T Department , Tsinghua University , Beijing , 100084 , China PR
{wangcanhui , mzhangbj}@gmailcom
ABSTRACT In many cases , rather than a keyword search , people intend to see what is going on through the Internet . Then the integrated comprehensive information on news topics is necessary , which we called news issues , including the background , history , current progress , different opinions and discussions , etc . Traditionally , news issues are manually generated by website editors . It is quite a time consuming hard work , and hence real time update is difficult to perform . In this paper , a three step automatic online algorithm for news issue construction is proposed . The first step is a topic detection process , in which newly appearing stories are clustered into new topic candidates . The second step is a topic tracking process , where those candidates are compared with previous topics , either merged into old ones or generating a new one . In the final step , news issues are constructed by the combination of related topics and updated by the insertion of new topics . An automatic online news issue construction process under practical Web circumstances is simulated to perform news issue construction experiments . F measure of the best results is either above ( topic detection ) or close to ( topic detection and tracking ) 90 % . Four news issue construction results are successfully generated in different time granularities : one meets the needs like “ what ’s new ” , and the other three will answer questions like “ what ’s hot ” or “ what ’s going on ” . Through the proposed algorithm , news issues can be effectively and automatically constructed with real time update , and lots of human efforts will be released from tedious manual work .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Clustering ; H34 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Systems and Software – Performance evaluation . General Terms : Experimentation Keywords News issue , Topic detection and tracking , Clustering 1 . INTRODUCTION
People often have information needs like “ what ’s new ” , or “ what ’s hot ” , or “ what ’s going on ” . However , it ’s difficult to form a keyword query and get what they need with the help of search engines in these cases , therefore they may choose to surf news websites . But there still remain problems . Plenty of new content is generated at all times ; content of various kinds is reported in one
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . website , and a same message is covered in many websites ; information in one theme is not well structured together . It will be very helpful if all mess up information could be gathered , turned into news issues and provided to users . The process has been accomplished manually by news website editors . Two examples have been given in this paper : one is a special report at CNN , concerning 2007 ( http://editioncnncom/SPECIALS/2007/news/rugbyworldcup/ ) , and the other talks about the 2008 Presidential Election in the US ( http://newsyahoocom/fc/US/2008_Presidential_Election ) at Yahoo.* rugby about world cup
A news issue contains all topics related to a relatively general theme . Taking the news issue “ rugby world cup 2007 ” for an example , it is linked to the “ finals of rugby world cup 2007 ” topic with a hyperlink . Moreover , a news issue is well organized with all materials concerning some designated theme , such as news stories , images , audios , videos , weblogs and comments etc . Topics mainly last for several days and become valueless in a short time , while news issues often span longer periods and turn into significant records . Users can conveniently be aware of the background , history , current progress , different opinions and discussions etc of the topics through news issues . In a word , news issues have well arranged Web contents and provide clear materials for reading .
However , creating news issues by hand is a heavy and tedious job . As a result , only the most important major events such as “ rugby world cup ” and “ Presidential Election ” are selected by news website editors to generate news issues . Furthermore , it takes so much time that newly appearing information cannot be added immediately to update an existing news issue or create a novel one .
Topic Detection and Tracking ( TDT ) tasks are intended to structure news stories from newswires and broadcasts into topics [ 1 ] . Compared with news issue generation , TDT tasks have similar aims but different results , as a topic is different from a news issue . After long time studying , the state of the art TDT techniques [ 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 13 ] are still far from satisfying expectation . Google News is a kind of practical application that uses the techniques of TDT . In spite of Google ’s leading position in the Internet industry , Google News Alerts “ generates more than 50 % false alarms ” [ 2 , 14 ] .
More practical algorithms are needed to generate precise news issues instantaneously . There exist the following problems to be
* Supported by the Chinese National Key Foundation Research & Development Plan ( 2004CB318108 ) , Natural Science Foundation ( 60621062 , 60503064 , 60736044 ) and National 863 High Technology Project ( 2006AA01Z141 ) .
457WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China investigated : How to bring order to a large amount of Web data automatically according to the themes , precisely and efficiently ? How to combine materials from various sources to construct news issues ? How to update old news issues and detect new ones instantaneously ?
An automatic online algorithm for news issue construction is proposed in this paper . Information from a lot of news websites , weblog sites and Web forums is gathered and organized as news issues automatically . Newly appearing materials will be fetched soon after issuance and combined to update existing news issues or utilized for a novel one creation .
More details of this algorithm are described as follows . ( 1 ) Since a news issue contains several related topics , we cluster news stories into topics , and then cluster topics into news issues . We select a clustering method as our topic detection algorithm . Experiments are made to compare the results of various clustering methods . Parameters in our model are tuned to achieve the best performance . ( 2 ) Our topic detection and tracking algorithm firstly clusters newly appearing stories into new topic candidates , and then compares those with previous topics and decides whether the candidates should be used to update old topics or regarded as new ones . ( 3 ) News issues are constructed based on the topics in a similar way like our topic and tracking process . News stories added to old topics are added to the corresponding old issues . New topics are clustered into new news issue candidates and the candidates are compared with previous news issues . Old news issues are updated and new ones generated . Data from weblogs and Web forums , images , audios and videos related to the news issues are added finally .
Four results are generated in different time granularities depended on the news issues constructed : the instant result , daily result , weekly result and monthly result . The instant result provides news issues ranked by their updated time and meets the needs like “ what ’s new ” . The other three provide news issues ranked by their sizes and will answer questions like “ what ’s hot ” and “ what ’s going on ” .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows : Section 2 gives a brief review of related work in Hierarchical Topic Detection . Section 3 presents our topic detection and tracking algorithm . The news issue construction algorithm is proposed in section 4 . Section 5 gives the experimental data and evaluation metrics . We describe the experimental results and discuss on them in Section 6 , followed by the conclusion and a discussion of future work in Section 7 . 2 . RELATED WORK
Topic detection and tracking ( TDT ) techniques have developed for years [ 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 13 ] but there still lack accurate , efficient and practical solutions . Hierarchical Topic Detection ( HTD ) task was proposed and evaluated in TDT2004 . The best HTD result in TDT2004 was achieved by a sample based approach [ 16 ] while Trieschnigg and Kraaij concluded that “ the results have too little precision to be really useful ” [ 16 ] . The first step of the algorithm proposed in [ 16 ] is “ to take a random sample from the corpus ” [ 16 ] , which we consider impractical to be applied in real Web environment . The other approaches used in HTD were mainly variants of the single pass method , kNN and agglomerative clustering algorithms [ 17 , 18 ] . There are still many problems existing in HTD such as the hierarchical structure and the mechanism of evaluation [ 15 ] . As [ 18 ] pointed out , overlapping clusters can get better results .
The major part of our work can be regarded as a two layer topic detection and tracking algorithm for practical use . We suggest it unnecessary to consider complicated hierarchies in the context of the state of the art TDT techniques . We also have not considered overlapping topics currently for simplicity .
Fung et al proposed a time dependent event hierarchy construction algorithm which identifies the features related to a query , extracts the documents highly related to the features , “ partitions the extracted documents to form events and organizes them in a hierarchical structure ” [ 19 ] . Our work is different . We construct news issues online automatically without any queries and recommend the results forwardly to users for reading . Experiments are performed using practical data from Web environment . We simulate the process of a practical system and show results in Web pages .
Savona et al proposed systems and methods for selecting and organizing information using temporal clustering in [ 21 ] . Their system is a well developed application for topic detection and tracking , while our work differs in the topic hierarchy , topic similarity calculation and clustering algorithms . 3 . TOPIC DETECTION AND TRACKING BASED ON CLUSTERING A news issue usually contains several related topics . Similar to TDT , the first stage of news issue construction is to organize information from various websites into topics , and so we borrow its name . We propose our topic detection and tracking system based on clustering , considering the characteristics of news appearance . Newly appearing Web pages are firstly clustered into new topic candidates , which are used to track previous topics . A new topic is generated if the candidate is not combined with any previous topic . Topic models are updated after the operation of combination . The whole topic detection and tracking process is performed online automatically . 3.1 Pre Processing and Page Representation
Web pages crawled by spiders are analyzed to get the main body . Their titles and contents are extracted along with metadata such as publishing date , category , source , images , audios and videos . We call a Web page ’s content part ( including the title ) a story , following the name used in TDT .
We split stories into sentences with some punctuation symbols . Redundant sentences are removed as they bring nothing but noises . And then we tokenize words ( word segmentation is performed when dealing with Chinese texts ) , perform part of speech tagging , recognize named entities and remove stopwords . Finally a term vector is created for each story .
Incremental TF IDF model is widely applied to term weight calculation in TDT [ 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 ] . We choose our incremental TFIWF model to weight terms for its steadier performance in our experiments . WF ( word frequency ) of term w at time t is calculated as : wwf )
( t
= wf t
1 −
( w )
+ wf tS
( w )
( 1 ) where St means a set of stories coming at time t , and wfSt(w ) means the number of times term w appears in the newly appearing stories . wft 1(w ) represents the number of times term w appears before time t . A training corpus comprised of a sufficient amount of Web pages is used for the calculation of WF initially . As it is showed in formula ( 1 ) , WF is updated dynamically at time t .
458WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Then each story d coming at time t is represented as an ndimension vector , where n is the number of distinct terms in story d . Each dimension is weighted using incremental TF IWF model and the vector is normalized so that it is of unit length : weight t wd ,( )
= wdtf ,( ) log(( wdtf )' ( ,(
W + t W log(( t
∑ dw ' ∈
/()1 +
/()1 wwf ))5.0 ) ( + t wwf ( )))5.0)'
+ t
( 2 )
2 where tf(d , w ) means how many times term w appears in story d and Wt represents the total number of term appearances before time t :
W t
=
∑ ∑
≤ t dw ' ∈ t d wdtf )'
,(
( 3 ) td in formula ( 3 ) means that story d appears at time t . Titles are weighted and added to the story representation .
3.2 Similarity Calculation
Cosine similarity is used to calculate the similarity between two stories . For story d and d’ at time t , their similarity is calculated as : ( 4 ) wd ,(
* ) weight wd ,'( ) similarity dd ,(
)'
= t
∑ ddw ∩∈ weight ' t t
3.3 Topic Detection Using New Stories
New coming stories are clustered into new topic candidates according to their pair wise similarities , which is similar to the process of Topic Detection in TDT . The clustering results , called as new topic candidates , are compared with previous topics , and then the results will show if they are really “ new ” or not . Topics are represented as term vectors defined as the arithmetic average of term vectors of all stories within them . Unlike the single pass and reallocation clustering method in [ 8 ] , we perform topic detection process within new stories for two reasons . First , the same topic stories are more likely to arrive at one time . Clustering within new stories ( without the influence of previous stories ) is supposed to ensure the same topic stories are put together at a higher probability . Second , the term vector of a topic is more accurate than that of a single story when representing a topic model , which makes it possible to bring better results at the stage of tracking previous topics .
Many clustering methods including state of the art algorithms are tested with the help of cluto toolkits [ 9 ] . UPGMA ( unweighted pair group method using arithmetic averages ) , a traditional agglomerative clustering method , is arranged to perform topic detection process because it achieves the best performance in our experiments . The clustering process is described as follows :
First step , every new story is considered as a cluster that contains only one story and pair wise similarities between the stories in the new story set are calculated .
Secondly , calculate pair wise similarities between clusters . The similarity between cluster A and B is calculated as the arithmetic average of pair wise similarities between the stories in A and the stories in B . As pointed out in [ 9 ] , the similarity calculated equals to the inner product between topic vectors of cluster A and B , so the topic similarity calculation is the same as the story similarity calculation .
Thirdly , suppose cluster A and B are of the largest similarity θ among all cluster pairs . If θ is larger than designated threshold , combine cluster A and B into a new cluster , turn back to the dθ second step and continue . Otherwise the clustering process stops and new topic candidates are generated .
3.4 Tracking Previous Topics
New topic candidates are used to compare with previous topics to check whether they are actually “ new ” or not . There are two reasons for not putting new and old stories together to operate the topic detection algorithm and generate all the topics . Firstly , we can easily get new topics during the topic tracking process . Secondly , the amount of previous stories can be very large in practical applications ; it ’s unnecessary to cluster all the stories as a whole dataset .
Since the life cycles of topics are usually short , we select previous topics updated during the past N days . Topics that have not been changed for N days are frozen , like what [ 8 ] did in topic detection .
Similarities between every new topic candidate and previous one are calculated . For each new topic candidate tn , assume the largest similarity θ is the similarity between tn and the previous topic to . Compare θ with designated threshold ) . If θ is larger , we consider that they belong to the same topic , combine tn to to and update to . tθ (
θ <
θ d t topics
Since some previous topics are updated , we scan all topics again and check if there’re any updated topics that need to be combined with other topics . This process will be repeated until no topics are combined . New topics are generated and previous ones are updated finally . 4 . NEWS ISSUE CONSTRUCTION
News websites are the origin of new in Web environment , so topics are generated using all pages from news websites as described in Section 3 . We construct news issues with the topics generated , combining information from weblog sites and Web forums . Images , audios and videos extracted from news pages are also applied to make news issues more interesting and attractive to users . The combination of topics and construction of news issues are performed online automatically . 4.1 News Issue Construction Based On Topic Combination
Similar to the topic detection and tracking process described in Section 3 , the news issue construction process is to deal with new and previous stories . Previous stories have been put in topics and these topics have been clustered into news issues , which are called previous news issues . New coming stories are clustered firstly , previous topics updated and new topics generated . Since some previous topics have been updated with new stories , previous news issues containing these old topics will also be updated . New topics generated are then clustered into new news issue candidates using the UPGMA algorithm described in Similarly , Section threshold ) is used to control the clustering process . niθ θ Finally , new news issue candidates are compared with previous news issues . A decision about whether a candidate is truly new or not is made , using a similar method described in Section 34 Previous news issues are updated and new news issues generated . 4.2 Adding Elements to News Issues designated
33 θ <
News issues contain not only news topics related to a designated theme but also weblogs and comments etc . We are able to collect all these additional data from weblogs and Web forums . a
<
θ
( ni d t
459WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China thresholds
Data from weblogs and Web forums have much more noise than Web news . So we choose to use weblogs of a famous people list and forum articles from some famous forums , with click and comment amounts beyond designated and . The publishing dates of weblog and forum data are θ comment limited within Nb days after the latest updates of the topics . These weblogs and forum articles are processed , represented as term vectors and compared with all existing topics one by one . The combining similarity threshold is set to be bθ . We will keep term vectors of topics and news issues as the same after combination with weblogs or forum articles , for the latter is not as reliable as the former . clickθ
Images , audios and videos extracted from news Web pages are selected to add to corresponding news issues . The selection priorities are influenced by the following factors : data source ( data from sites of an important site list are preferred ) ; size of data ( data of larger size are preferred ) ; publishing date ( the latest data are used ) ; data amount ( each topic is limited to own one image , one audio and one video at the most ) . 5 . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 5.1 Dataset and Experimental Setup
Experiments are performed on Chinese datasets constructed from practical Web environment . Datasets of different sizes are used to examine different parts of news issue construction algorithm proposed .
Dataset1 : This dataset contains 350 news pages with 87 topics . These Web pages , published in March and April in 2007 , are all about search engine companies . They are selected by hand from Chinese news websites , including news reports and reviews . It ’s worth noting that some of the news stories are deliberately added to confuse our algorithms . The maximum topic has 20 stories , while the minimum has only one .
Dataset2 : This dataset contains 953 news pages with 108 topics . These Web pages are news from the sports channel of SOHU ( http://sportssohucom/ ) , one of China ’s major websites , on April 22 , 2007 . The maximum topic has 151 stories , while the minimum has only one .
Dataset3 : This dataset contains 24,872 news pages from sports channels of dozens of Chinese news websites and 1,339 articles from weblogs and Web forums in a designated list , published from Sept 26 to Oct 25 , 2007 ( the latest 30 days when this page is written ) . All the pages are crawled by spiders .
We don’t consider datasets with multi category news because news stories of various categories are usually put in corresponding channels of news Websites . 5.2 Evaluation Metric
Different experiments are made to evaluate the three steps of news issue construction algorithm separately . We treat each topic and news issue as a cluster and select traditional evaluation metrics widely used in Information Retrieval [ 10 ] and clustering [ 11 ] : Recall , Precision and F measure . We don’t use CDet [ 20 ] , which is commonly used in TDT , because the conditions of our problem and real TDT tasks are different .
Topics and news issues generated using our algorithms are called clusters , actual topics and news issues called classes , and Recall , Precision are calculated as [ 11 ] :
( 5 )
Re call i =),( j n ij n i
Pr ecision i =),( j n ij n j
( 6 ) where nij is the number of members of class i in cluster j , nj is the size of cluster j and ni is size of class i .
The F measure of cluster j and class i is given by [ 11 ] : iF j ),(
=
Re*2 Re i call Pr*),( i j ),( Pr j + ecision ecision j i ),( ji ),( call
( 7 )
The F measure of any class i is defined as the maximum among values calculated with any cluster , and Recall and Precision calculated in such a case are defined as corresponding values of the class . Mark them as Fi , Ri and Pi .
An overall value for the Recall , Precision and F measure is calculated by taking the weighted average of all values for the corresponding metric as follows [ 11 ] :
( 8 )
Re call
∑= i n i R i n n i P i n
( 9 )
( 10 ) i
Pr ecision
∑=
F
∑= i n i F i n
Recall and Precision usually contradict each other in Information Retrieval and clustering . If we return the whole news story set as a topic , Recall is 100 % and Precision is very low ; if we return every story as a topic , Precision is 100 % and Recall is very low . In a word , low Precision means the different topic stories are put together wrongly , and low Recall means the same topic stories are not clustered correctly . 6 . EXPERIMENTS AND DISCUSSIONS
Experiments are firstly done to evaluate our topic detection algorithm . Parameters are tuned and the results are compared with cluto toolkits [ 9 ] . Then we test our topic tracking algorithm . News issue construction results are demonstrated finally . 6.1 Topic Detection Results
We did some experiments to test the topic detection algorithm we had selected firstly , based on the pre processing process , incremental TF IWF model and cosine similarity calculation mentioned in Section 3 . After that , word frequency ( WF ) , redundant sentence removal ( RSR ) and title weights are tested and compared in our experiments . 611 Selection of Clustering Method
Our topic detection algorithm is actually a topic clustering algorithm . We surveyed the cluto toolkits [ 9 ] before we select UPGMA as our clustering method . Different clustering methods including state of the art algorithms are tested and compared on Dataset2 , with the help of cluto . Since the topic detection process deals with new stories and new stories are coming out all the time , the process runs every few minutes to provide the latest results for the update of news issues instantaneously . There will not appear too many stories in few minutes , so the topic detection algorithm does not have the requirement of dealing with a large amount of stories . Dataset2 contains 953 news stories with 108 topics . The
460WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China dataset is from practical Web environment and the size is large enough to test our topic detection algorithm .
We compare different clustering algorithms implemented in cluto firstly . Since the amount of target clusters has to be given before clustering with cluto , we fix the number to be 108 , which is the actual amount of clusters in Dataset2 . Traditional TF IDF and our incremental TF IWF weighting models are both tested , and pre processing is performed as mentioned in Section 31 There are many parameters that can be tuned in cluto . We test the algorithms carefully and show the results that are best or produced by outperforming algorithms and criterion functions mentioned in [ 9 ] : direct I2 IDF rbr H2 IDF graph jacc IDF agglo upgma IDF direct I2 IWF rbr H2 IWF graph jacc IWF agglo upgma IWF
100 %
80 %
60 %
40 %
20 %
0 %
Precision
Recall
F measure
Figure 1 . Performance comparison of different clustering methods based on IDF and IWF on Dataset2
The diagrammatic presentations have three parts : the clustering algorithm name , the criterion function name ( or the similarity name ) and the model name . The first two names are defined in [ 9 ] and the model name indicates whether TF IDF or TF IWF model is used .
As shown in Figure 1 , the best performance is achieved by the “ agglo upgma ” algorithm , which is a traditional agglomerative clustering method based on UPGMA . This result does not agree with the conclusion of [ 11 ] , which finds out that “ agglomerative hierarchal clustering performs poorly ” and explains that “ in many cases , the nearest neighbors of a document are of different classes ” . We consider that in news story datasets , the nearest neighbors of a story are always of the same class , which may be the reason why UPGMA performs best among all . dθ
The amount of target clusters has to be given before using cluto , which is inconvenient in practical applications . So we add a threshold when implementing the UPGMA algorithm to decide when the clustering process stops , as mentioned in Section 3 . The threshold can be explained as the least similarity between two stories that should be combined together . Many facilities are brought in and the clustering algorithm is controlled easily . Our algorithm achieves best results when is set as 0225 Our best result is the same as cluto ’s best , as shown in Figure 1 ( “ aggloupgma IWF ” ) . 612 IWF vs IDF
IWF is used for term weighting instead of IDF in our weighting model . Experiments are made to compare their performance , based on Dataset1 and Dataset2 . The result changes when it comes to different threshold . We draw Precision Recall curves to show performances as follows : dθ dθ n o i s i c e r P
94 %
90 %
86 %
82 %
78 %
74 %
70 %
IDF
IWF
68 %
70 %
72 %
74 %
76 %
Recall
78 %
80 %
82 %
84 %
86 %
Figure 2 . Performance comparison of IWF and IDF on
Dataset1
98 %
94 %
90 %
86 %
82 % n o i s i c e r P
78 %
86 %
IDF
IWF
88 %
90 %
92 % Recall
94 %
96 %
98 %
Figure 3 . Performance comparison of IWF and IDF on
Dataset2
Experiments on Dataset1 and Dataset2 both show that IWF is better than IDF . Through the study of information retrieval heuristics [ 12 ] , both IWF and IDF satisfy constraints TFC1 , TFC2 , LNC1 and TF LNC defined in [ 12 ] , while IWF behaves more smoothly .
Take TFC1 for example . TFC1 is defined in [ 12 ] as : Let q = {w} be a query with only one term w . Assume documents d1 and d2 are of the same length . If w appears more times in d1 than in d2 , we judge that d1 is more similar to q than d2 .
TF IWF model shows some smoothing effects , compared with TF IDF model . The TF part is the same in both models , and plays the dominant role in supporting TFC1 ( larger TF of the query word w brings larger similarity ) . IDF remains the same no matter how many times w appears in the documents , while the value of IWF decreases when the frequency of w in document d increases , according to equation ( 2 ) .
Similar analysis can be done on TFC2 , LNC1 and TF LNC and smoothing effects are found in TF IWF model through these constraints , which could explain the steadier performance of IWF . Compare the evaluation results on Dataset1 and Dataset2 , and it lays out that better performance is achieved on Dataset2 . Dataset2 is a relatively easier dataset for topic detection , for some confusing stories have been deliberately added to Dataset1 during the dataset construction . 613 Redundant Sentence Removal ( RSR )
News stories are mostly short , simple and clear . Repeating is a good way to show that something is important , and hence keywords to the main body of a news story will be repeated for a few times , not sentences . The most important sentence can be used as the news title and appears in the content once again , but is not usually simply repeated many times . We assume redundant
461WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China sentences usually don’t bring in new information but noises . For instance , one of the news stories in Dataset2 is actually a live broadcast of the draw for the 2007 FIFA Women World Cup in text from the sports channel of SOHU . The sentence “ 搜狐直播 员： ” ( “ SOHU live reporter ” , separated as a sentence by other contents with a colon ) , appears 73 times in the news story but in fact has nothing to do with the topic .
Dataset2 is selected to verify our guess . Redundant sentences in the content of every news story are removed . Precision Recall curves are drawn to show results as Figure 4 : n o i s i c e r P
98 %
94 %
90 %
86 %
82 %
78 %
Non RSR
RSR
86 %
88 %
90 %
92 % Recall
94 %
96 %
98 %
Figure 4 . Effect of RSR on Dataset2
Figure 4 shows better performance in most circumstances after removing redundant sentences . It must be pointed out that when Recall increases , which means more stories on the same topics are put together , the RSR method leads to better precision compared with the non RSR method . Since most news stories do not contain redundant and useless sentences , and some actually contain repeated and important sentences , the improvement is not great , but it ’s still worthwhile to introduce RSR to our model . 614 Use of Title and Title Weight
It ’s natural to add the title of a news story to its representation , but we wonder whether the title is indeed helpful and how large weight should be assigned to it . We observe news pages in Dataset2 and find that :
( 1 ) Some news stories are very short . There are only one or two ( even no ) sentences in the main body . The main part of this kind of news page is an image . This form of news page is usually to report news flashes . A brief title , an image and short content make up an attractive news report .
( 2 ) Sometimes the title extracted is not related to the topic . The reason may be that the title extraction program fails , or the news page is created using a template and the title is not amended , or a mistake by the news editor .
So we do experiments on Dataset2 to find out the best way to add titles to the representation of news stories . Four conditions are tested : no titles are added ( no title ) ; titles are added to all stories with weight 3 ( all title 3 ) ; titles are added to short stories with weight 3 ( length shorter than 20 , short title 3 ) ; titles are added to short stories with weight 1 ( short title 1 ) . Experimental results are shown as the following figure :
98 %
94 % n o i s i c e r P
90 %
86 %
82 %
78 % no title all title 3 short title 3 short title 1
85 %
87 %
89 %
91 %
Recall
93 %
95 %
97 %
Figure 5 . Effect of title use and title weight on Dataset2 From Figure 5 we can learn that : ( 1 ) The addition of titles help improve the performance ; ( 2 ) Adding titles only to short stories achieves better performance than to all stories ;
( 3 ) Assigning a relatively larger weight to the title outperforms treating the title as important as the content .
So adding titles to the representation of short stories with weight 3 is our chosen method of using titles . 6.2 Topic Detection and Tracking Results
Dataset2 is used to test our topic detection and tracking algorithm . The news stories of Dataset2 are from the sports channel of SOHU ( http://sportssohucom/ ) on April 22 , 2007 . We divide the dataset into 24 parts . Each part contains news stories that appear in an hour of the day . For instance , the first part contains 30 news stories , which appear from 00:00 to 01:00 of the day . The time windows are set smaller in real applications , such as 5 minutes , in order to show the freshest topics in time . A topic tracking process is simulated as follows :
News stories appearing from 0:01 to 01:00 are firstly clustered into topics as the topic detection process does . Then news stories appearing from 01:01 to 02:00 are clustered in the same way and the results are used to perform the topic tracking process with existing topics . The topic detection and tracking process is repeated 23 times until all the 23 parts ( except the first part which is only processed by the topic detection algorithm ) of the dataset have been processed .
We evaluate all topics we’ve got once one more part of the is set as tθ is set as 0125 The dataset is processed . The topic detection threshold 0.225 and the topic tracking threshold results at 24 hours of the day are shown as the following figure : dθ
100.0 %
95.0 %
90.0 %
85.0 %
80.0 %
75.0 %
Precison Recall F measure
01:00 03:00 05:00 07:00 09:00 11:00 13:00 15:00 17:00 19:00 21:00 23:00
Time of the day
Figure 6 . Performance of topic detection and tracking at 24 hours of the day on Dataset2
From Figure 6 we find out that the performance of the topic detection and tracking process is good as a whole . The final result of the day which is the result at 24:00 : P=89.7 % , R=89.2 % ,
462WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China ( 2 ) Daily result . News issues updated in the latest 24 hours . ( 3 ) Weekly result . News issues updated in the latest 7 days . ( 4 ) Monthly result . News issues updated in the latest 30 days .
The instant result is ranked by the time when news issues are updated and meets the needs like “ what ’s new ” . The other three are ranked by news issues’ sizes ( number of news stories ) and will satisfy people who wonder “ what ’s hot ” and “ what ’s going on ” .
Figure 8 is part of the screenshot of the instant result page in the afternoon on Oct 26 , 2007 . It shows the top three news issues , talking about “ the sixth City Games in China ” , “ matches of Phoenix Suns , NBA ” and “ matches of Milwaukee Bucks , NBA ” , respectively :
F=894 % Compare this result with the best result achieved in the topic detection process which takes Dataset2 as a whole and perform the clustering method : P=95.6 % , R=93.7 % , F=946 % The loss of performance is only about 5 % . The amount of previous stories can be very large in practical applications , and hence it is impossible to cluster all the stories as a whole dataset . So the topic tracking algorithm meets the practical need and keeps the clustering performance in general .
As we can see in Figure 6 , the performance is not so good at 09:00 and 10:00 . We will explain this through the statistics of new stories and topics appearing at each hour of the day , as it is shown in Figure 7 :
Num of New Topics
Num of Stories Included by New Topics
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
01:00 03:00 05:00 07:00 09:00 11:00 13:00 15:00 17:00 19:00 21:00 23:00
Figure 7 . Number of new topics and number of stories included by new topics at 24 hours of the day on Dataset2
Time of the day
A new topic means that the first story of the topic appears . The number of stories that make up new topics appearing in each hour of the day is compared with the number of new topics , as demonstrated in Figure 7 . We can see that many new topics appear at 09:00 and 10:00 but the number of news stories that support the new topics at 09:00 and 10:00 is not so large , which means almost every story appearing at 09:00 and 10:00 is expected to be returned as a new topic itself . This may be difficult and our algorithms fail with a relatively bad performance . 6.3 News Issue Construction Results
News issue construction experiments are done as Section 4 describes . Firstly , we perform the topic detection and tracking process with Web pages from news websites and then cluster the topics into news issues . Secondly , data from weblogs , Web forums are selected and added . Images , audios and videos are finally added to corresponding news issues , following some rules . Dataset3 is used in practical applications . All the pages are crawled from sports channels of news websites by spiders . We perform an experiment on Dataset3 to simulate automatic online news issue construction . Newly crawled Web pages are used to do topic detection . The result is used to update the previous topics and news issues , or create new topics and news issues . Images , audios and videos from crawled news pages , data from weblogs and Web forums in a designated list are selected and added . The thresholds are set as : =0.1 , θ click The process is repeated every 5 minutes and always provides the latest result . Since the dataset spans 30 days , the experiment costs a month to complete . Finally the news issues constructed are sorted , ranked and shown . tθ = 0.125 , N=10 , dθ =0.225 ,
Four results , generated in different time granularities , are
=5000 ,
θ comment
=50 , Nb=3 , bθ =01 provided to users in the final result page :
( 1 ) Instant result . News issues updated in the latest few hours .
Figure 8 . Top 3 instant results of news issue construction1 Figure 9 shows the top three news issues of the monthly result , talking about “ Domanski as the head coach of the Chinese National Women's football team ” , “ sports lotteries of China ” and “ Yi Jianlian in Milwaukee Bucks , NBA ” :
Figure 9 . Top 3 monthly results of news issue construction1
1 The results of Figure 8 and 9 have been translated into English at APPENDIX . niθ
463WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China We use titles of the latest news as the anchor texts of the hyperlinks linking to news issues and topics currently . Snippets of the latest news are shown as the summaries of news issues . In this way , the up to date status of a news issue will be viewed . Users will read more about the background , history , different opinions and discussions etc through a hyperlink like “ 204 related topics ” . It is worth noting that images of related news are added automatically and shown in Figure 8 and 9 , and an article from the weblog of Sun Wen , a famous female football star , is added to the “ Domanski ” issue .
We have got 8,259 topics and 742 new issues totally . It ’s difficult and time consuming to give an overall evaluation . We have just had assessors view the results ( no author is among them ) and their feedbacks are summarized as follows :
( 1 ) Results of the topic detection and tracking process do not seem as good as what we get in Section 6.1 and 6.2 , for the situation here is much more complicated than dealing with sports news from one website one day .
( 2 ) News issue construction results look better . News stories in the same news issue are mostly about the same theme , which indicates Precision will be good ; some of the news issues should be combined as one , which indicates Recall will be worse than Precision .
( 3 ) Images are usually correctly added . Audios and videos are very few . Data from weblogs and Web forums cause much more errors than news stories .
7 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper , we propose a novel automatic online algorithm for news issue construction , through which news issues can be effectively and automatically constructed with real time update , and lots of human efforts will be released from tedious manual work .
Our algorithm includes three steps . The first step is a topic detection process , in which newly appearing stories are clustered into new topic candidates . The second step is a topic tracking process , which compares those candidates with previous topics , and then merges the candidates into old topics or creates new ones . In the final step , news issues are constructed by the combination of related topics and updated by the insertion of new topics . Experimental results under practical Web circumstances indicate that Web contents are well arranged and instantaneously updated by our algorithm .
In the future , we hope to adjust the news issue rankings with page view information of news pages . We also plan to do user opinion mining on the news issue construction results . 8 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Bin Liang , Xiaoxiang Leng , Lei An and Gang Li for their work on evaluation and demonstration . They also thank the reviewers for comments and suggestions . 9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] http://wwwnistgov/speech/tests/tdt/indexhtm [ 2 ] Q . He , K . Chang , and E P Lim . A model for Anticipatory
Event Detection . In ER , pages 168–181 , 2006 .
[ 3 ] Y . Yang , T . Pierce , and J . Carbonell . A Study of
Retrospective and On line Event Detection . In Proceedings of the 21st Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Melbourne , Australia . ACM Press . 1998 , 28 36 .
[ 4 ] N . Stokes and J . Carthy . Combining Semantic and Syntactic
Document Classifiers to Improve First Story Detection . In
Proceedings of the 24th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , New Orleans . ACM Press . 2001 , 424 425 . [ 5 ] T . Brants , F . Chen , and A . Farahat . A System for New
Event Detection . In Proceedings of the 26th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , New York , NY , USA . ACM Press . 2003 , 330 337 .
[ 6 ] G . Kumaran and J . Allan . Text Classification and Named Entities for New Event Detection . In Proceedings of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Sheffield , UK , ACM Press . 2004 , 297 304 .
[ 7 ] K . Zhang , J . Li , and G . Wu . New Event Detection Based on Indexing tree and Named Entity . In Proceedings of the 30th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Amsterdam , the Netherlands . ACM Press . 2007 , 215 222 .
[ 8 ] M . Spitters and W . Kraaij . TNO at TDT2001 : Language
Model Based Topic Detection . Topic Detection and Tracking Workshop Report , 2001 .
[ 9 ] Y . Zhao and G . Karypis . Criterion Functions for Document
Clustering . Technical Report , 2005 .
[ 10 ] C . J . van Rijsbergen , Information Retrieval , Buttersworth ,
London , second edition , 1989 .
[ 11 ] M . Steinbach , G . Karypis and V Kumar . A Comparison of Document Clustering Techniques . KDD Workshop on Text Mining , 2000 .
[ 12 ] H . Fang , T . Tao , C . Zhai . A Formal Study of Information
Retrieval Heuristics . In Proceedings of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Sheffield , UK , ACM Press . 2004 , 49 56 .
[ 13 ] J . Allan , R . Papka , and V . Lavrenko . On line new event detection and tracking . In Proceedings of the 21st Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Melbourne , Australia . ACM Press . 1998 , 37 45 .
[ 14 ] Q . He , K . Chang , and E P Lim . Analyzing Feature
Trajectories for Event Detection . In Proceedings of the 30th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference , Amsterdam , the Netherlands . ACM Press . 2007 , 207 214 .
[ 15 ] Overview of the TDT 2004 Evaluation and Results , http://wwwnistgov/speech/tests/tdt/tdt2004/papers/NISTTDT2004ppt
[ 16 ] D . Trieschnigg and W . Kraaij . TNO Hierarchical topic detection report at TDT 2004 . Topic Detection and Tracking Workshop Report , 2004 .
[ 17 ] M Q Yu , W H Luo , Z T Zhou and S . Bai . ICT ’s
Approaches to HTD and Tracking at TDT2004 . Topic Detection and Tracking Workshop Report , 2004 .
[ 18 ] M . Connell , A . Feng , G . Kumaran , and et al . UMass at TDT
2004 . Topic Detection and Tracking Workshop Report , 2004 .
[ 19 ] GPC Fung , JX Yu , H . Liu and PS Yu . Time Dependent
Event Hierarchy Construction . In Proceedings of KDD2007 , pages 300 309 , California , USA , 2007 .
[ 20 ] The 2001 TDT task definition and evaluation plan , http://wwwnistgov/speech/tests/tdt/tdt2001/evalplanhtm
[ 21 ] A . Savona , A . Gulli and L . Foschini . US patent : Systems and methods for selecting and organizing information using temporal clustering , pending . ( Application number : 20070260586 ) .
464WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China APPENDIX
Translation for Figure 8
Instant Rank Daily Rank Weekly Rank Monthly Rank
News with image : Jiao Liuyang , champion of women 200 meter butterfly stroke of the 6th City Games 13:49:00 Oct 26 , 2007 from SINA Jiao Liuyang , an athlete from Harbin , left the competition terrain after the match on Oct 26 . She won a golden medal with a 2’08’’18 result in the final of women 200 meter butterfly stroke of the 6th City Games held in Wuhan . Photo by Sha dati , a reporter from Xinhua news agency . News with image : Xie Zhi in the final of men 200 meter butterfly stroke of the 6th City Games –SOHU ( 3 related news ) Results of the final of men 200 meter butterfly stroke of the 6th City Games –SOHU ( 1 relate news ) News with image : Lai Zhongjian in the final of men 200 meter butterfly stroke of the 6th City Games –SOHU ( 1 related news ) 4 related topics>>
Amare Stoudemire is back and Grant Hill is leading , Suns defeat Nuggets : 116 113 13:06:00 Oct 26 , 2007 from TOM News from TOM sports : Suns play at home with Nuggets , and win 116 113 on Oct 26 , Beijing time . Amare Stoudemire is back from an operation and plays as main force . Suns use the complete main force , and Grant Hill substitutes Boris Diaw as the main force . Amare Stoudemire is back and Suns defeat Nuggets : 116 113 –ENORTH ( 1 related news ) Live records of the first period , Nuggets vs Suns : 32 22 –ENORTH ( 1 relate news ) “ AI combination ” unable to win for Nuggets , Amare Stoudemire helps Suns defeat Nuggets by 3 points –SPORTS.CN ( 1 related news ) 5 related topics>>
News with image : [ Preseason of NBA ] Bucks defeated by Bulls , Dan Gadzuric is defending 12:33:00 Oct 26 , 2007 from SOHU News from SOHU sports : The preseason of NBA is continuing at 8:30 on Oct 26 , Beijing time . Milwaukee Bucks was defeated away by Chicago Bulls and have now lost two straight games . Jianlian Yi played for 21 minutes , made 2 of 7 shots and 3 of 4 penalty shots , won 7 marks and 3 rebounds , and made 2 turnovers and 3 personal fouls . Images : 81 97 , Bucks defeated away by Bulls –SPORTSPEOPLECOMCN ( 4 relate news ) [ News with image ] Jianlian Yi in the match between Bucks and Bulls –TOM ( 4 related news ) 6 related topics>>
465WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Translation for Figure 9
Instant Rank Daily Rank Weekly Rank Monthly Rank
Dust settled : Domanski will leave her post , and times of the first foreign head coach of women football team has ended 07:45:00 Oct 24 , 2007 from SOHU News from SOHU ( reported by Wang Zhanrong and Dai bin ) : Dust is settled about Domanski ’s contract extension . The Chinese Football Association ( CFA ) held a news conference and proclaimed that Domanski , the head coach of China women football team , would leave her post , without a renewal of a contract with CFA . The CFA feels sorry for Domanski ’s leave –QQ ( 10 related news ) Yang Yimin admitted that the CFA contacted Domanski forwardly –SOHU ( 10 relate news ) The Asian Football Confederation pays attention to Domanski ’s leave and the former head coach of France team is hopeful to be the successor –ENORTH ( 10 related news ) 34 related topics>> Weblogs I don’t know what to say about Domanski ’s leave , and I feel numb about frequent changes of head coach . –Weblog of Sun Wen
[ Song Yu ’s talks about lotteries ] Prediction and analysis on the 2007284th welfare lotteries 14:50:00 Oct 19 , 2007 from SOHU News from SOHU sports : Firstly , analyze the results of the previous stage . Recall the results recently . ( Some of the contents are omitted for the difficulty of translation ) Analysis of the 7289th stage from HAOCW.COM –SOHU ( 20 related news ) Analysis of the 7291st stage from PAOKOO.COM –SOHU ( 11 relate news ) Aggregate analysis of the 291st stage by Bai Jin –SOHU ( 11 related news ) 29 related topics>>
News with image : Yi Jianlian acts preeminently in Milwaukee Bucks 01:29:00 Oct 19 , 2007 from SOHU News from SOHU sports : Milwaukee Bucks continue their training in the San Francisco training center , on Oct 18 , Milwaukee local time ( the wee hours of Oct 19 , Beijing time ) . One of the great moments on the training site is shown . ( Photo by Zhang Yi , from Milwaukee ) ( Editor in charge : Wang Hailu)… Exclusive images : Yi Jianlian gives rejections frequently during the training in Bucks –SOHU ( 10 relate news ) Exclusive images : Milwaukee Bucks are preparing for the match with Minnesota Timberwolves –SOHU ( 7 relate news ) Report at the end of the 3rd period : Yi Jianlian got 6 marks and 2 rebounds and Bucks fell behind Nuggets –SPORTSPEOPLECOMCN ( 6 related news ) 26 related topics>>
466WWW 2008 / Refereed Track : Search ApplicationsApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
