Investigation of Partial Query Proximity in Web Search
Jing Bai , Yi Chang , Hang Cui , Zhaohui Zheng , Gordon Sun , Xin Li
Yahoo! Inc . , 701 First Avenue , Sunnyvale , CA
94089 USA
{jingbai , yichang , cui , zhaohui , gzsun , xinli}@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Proximity of query terms in a document is an important criterion in IR . However , no investigation has been made to determine the most useful term sequences for which proximity should be considered . In this study , we test the effectiveness of using proximity of partial term sequences ( n grams ) for Web search . We observe that the proximity of sequences of 3 to 5 terms is most effective for long queries , while shorter or longer sequences appear less useful . This suggests that combinations of 3 to 5 terms can best capture the intention in user queries . In addition , we also experiment with weighing the importance of query sub sequences using query tests show promising empirical results . log frequencies . Our preliminary
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] Query formulation
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Experimentation
Keywords Term proximity , Information retrieval
1 . INTRODUCTION In addition to the traditional criteria concerning individual query terms such as tf and idf , the proximity between query terms in a document is often believed to be a useful criterion for document ranking [ 3,4 ] . The rationale is that documents in which the query terms appear more closely have a better chance to represent the concept the query implies . Several approaches using term proximity have been suggested in recent IR studies . For example , Tao and Zhai [ 4 ] proposed to reward a document according to either the proximity of all the query terms together or the proximity of each pair of terms . The first method requires all the query terms to appear together in a text window or text span . This requirement may be reasonable for short queries ( with fewer than 3 terms ) , but could be too strong for longer queries . Indeed , it is often the case that not all terms in a query such as “ second hand car for sale in California ” appear in the same text span in relevant documents . Query terms may scatter in disjoint text spans . On the other hand , considering only word pairs may not be sufficient for long queries . For the above example , if we only consider proximity of word pairs such as “ second car ” or “ hand car ” , the underlying concept “ second hand car ” cannot be correctly covered . As such , longer term sequences ( in this case , of 3 terms ) are needed . It is important to deal with long queries in Web search , as a non negligible part of Web search queries are long queries containing
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
4 or more words : a sampling of 100K queries on a commercial search engine shows that around 20 % of the unique queries contain 4 or more words . For these queries , the approaches proposed in [ 4 ] represent the two extreme cases , which enforce either only the adjacent two term proximities or the proximity of the all terms . In this paper , we show that both approaches fail to deal with long queries correctly . The proximity of partial combinations of 3 to 5 terms is more appropriate for long queries . Metzler and Croft [ 3 ] have also investigated the utilization of term proximity in a language modeling setting . They showed that by integrating term proximity , improvements in IR effectiveness can be obtained on TREC collections . However , no investigation has been made directly on Web search relevance so far . The approach proposed by [ 3 ] also investigates the combinations of all lengths . The results of our experiments show that it may not be necessary to extend the combinations beyond 5 terms . The primary goal of this study is to see how term combinations ( n grams ) of different lengths affect IR effectiveness ( measured in Discounted Cumulative Gain – DCG [ 2] ) . Our experiments show that partial combinations of 3 to 5 terms should be considered for proximity and integrated into the ranking function . Term sequences in queries may not be equally representative or meaningful . Another important question is how one can determine meaningful sequences and assign them a higher importance for ranking . In this study , we propose to exploit query logs for this purpose : more frequent term sequences are considered to be more meaningful . Our preliminary experiments show this is helpful . 2 . USING PROXIMITY OF TERMS Without losing generality , in our study , we assume that a web search ranking function could be represented by two parts of information : one is a proximity independent ranking function f1(Q,D ) for a query Q and a document D , while the other is a proximity related function f2(Q,D ) . These functions can be combined in different ways to produce a final ranking function f(Q,D ) . For example , both [ 3 ] and [ 4 ] use f(Q,D ) = f1(Q,D ) + f2(Q,D ) , in which the two component ranking functions are used at equal importance . In practice , one criterion may be more important than another . Therefore , we will use weighted sum as follows : f(Q,D ) = f1(Q,D ) + w*f2(Q,D )
The relative weight w is to be tuned using training data . In this study , f1(Q,D ) is an existing ranking function without term proximity , which contain a set of parameters to be tuned . These parameters and the weight w are tuned together using Gradient Boosting Tree [ 1 ] . The proximity related criterion f2(Q,D ) is defined on n grams of different lengths as follows :
) prox
=
(
)
DQf 2
(
,
LT i
, j
∑ ∑
QT i
∈
DL
∈ j where Ti is an n gram ( with a predetermined n ) in Q and Lj is a line or span in D with a length limit ( 16 in our experiments ) .
1183WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China prox i LT , ( j
) is defined as follows : LT prox ( i
/1 ) = exp(
, j
α extra miss *
+
)* β where α and β are two parameters fixed in ( 0,1 ) to penalize Lj if a term in Ti is missing in it , in bad order or if it contains an extra term between the terms in Ti . miss and extra are the numbers of missing and extra terms . We first test the impact of each type of n gram separately . The test is performed on a set of 2,669 queries , among them , 579 are long queries ( 4 or more terms ) . These queries are extracted from Yahoo! search engine . There are 80K query URL pairs in total . These pairs are manually judged by subjects . We use a 5 fold cross validation in the test : one part of the long queries ( together with the corresponding URLs ) is used for test while 4 other parts ( including short queries ) are used to train the parameters , in particular , the relative weights w1 and w2 . As most users on Web search are interested in top results only , we use DCG1 and DCG5 [ 2 ] as our measures of retrieval effectiveness . The following table shows the impact of each ngram on DCG1 and DCG5 . The baseline method only uses ( DQf1 for ranking .
)
,
Table 1 . Effect of integrating different n grams baseline 2 gram 3 gram
1.97 +1.4 % 4.56 1.5 %
2.07
+6.8%*
4.70
+1.5%*
4 gram 2.13
+9.7%*
4.71 +1.8 %
5 gram 2.10
+7.9%*
4.72
+2.0%*
6 gram 2.05
+5.5%*
4.60 0.6 %
DCG1
1.94
DCG5
4.63
1 G C D
2.15 2.1 2.05 2 1.95 1.9 1.85 1.8
4.75 4.7 4.65 4.6 4.55 4.5 4.45
5 G C D
DCG1 DCG5 b a s elin e
2
3
4
5
6 n gram
Figure 1 . DCG1 and DCG5 with different n grams
We can see that bigrams can improve slightly DCG1 for long queries , but it decreases DCG5 . This shows that proximity of bigrams has a limited impact on IR effectiveness . This conclusion is similar to that of [ 4 ] when the average distance of word pairs is used in their approach . When longer n grams are used , we observe larger improvements in DCG1 and all the improvements are statistically significant at the level of p<0.05 ( marked with * ) . For DCG5 , we observe the improvements with 3 to 5 grams and those with 3 grams and 5grams are statistically significant . The above experiments indicate that the consideration of term proximity of different size can all improve the top 1 retrieval result . However , only the sequences of middle range sizes ( 3 5 ) can improve the top 5 results . This shows that it is not very useful to exploit proximity of sequences longer than 5 terms in practice . A possible explanation of the above observation is that many concepts used in user queries correspond to 3 to 5 words . Shorter sequences are unable to cover these concepts correctly , while longer sequences often aggregate additional terms to the concepts , making them less meaningful . This gives rise to the question of how we can select and weight meaningful term sequences . Ideally , we should consider the proximity of meaningful term sequences only . In the next section , we propose to use query logs to determine the meaningfulness of a term sequence .
3 . ESTIMATING THE IMPORTANCE OF N GRAMS USING QUERY LOGS Our assumption here is that the more a term sequence appears in many queries , the more the sequence is meaningful . Each term sequence can then be weighted according to their frequency in query logs . In our experiments , we use query logs of 6 months on Yahoo! search engine . Let freq(Ti ) be the frequency of n gram in query logs . The weigh for an n gram Ti in a query is estimated by , where Z is normalization factor over Tw ( i the whole query . The new function is defined as follows :
( DQf ' 2
1 −= Z freq log(
T ( i
) )
)
)
,
' DQf 2
(
,
)
=
∑ ∑
QT ∈ i
DL
∈ j
Tw ( i
)
× prox
LT ( i
, j
)
We have only tested this approach for bigrams . For longer ngrams , we have more problem of data sparseness . Larger query log data is required . With the above ranking function for 2 grams , we obtain 2.08 and 4.64 in DCG1 and DCG5 respectively , or 7.24 % and 0.19 % improvements compared to the baseline method . Compared to the case of unweighted bigrams shown in Table 1 , DCG1 and DCG5 are increased . This preliminary result suggests that query logs can help determine the most important term sequences for which term proximity should be enhanced . In our future study , we will perform experiments for longer n grams using larger query logs .
4 . CONCLUSION Proximity of query terms in documents is an important factor for ranking , but no investigation has been made on the usefulness of proximity of different term sequences . In this study , we investigated the impact of proximity measure of 2 to 6 grams . Our experiments on real Web search data showed that the most useful sequences for long queries are those of 3 to 5 words . We also tested the utilization of query logs to determine the meaningfulness of a term sequence . Our preliminary result showed that query logs can provide useful information for this . The resulting ranking function can be better than when all term sequences are weighted equally .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Friedman , JH , Greedy function approximation : A gradient boosting machine , 1999 , http://wwwsalfordsystemscom/doc/GreedyFuncApproxSSpdf
[ 2 ] Järvelin , K . & Kekäläinen , J . Cumulated gain based evaluation of IR techniques . ACM Transactions on Information Systems 20 , 422 446 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] Metzler , D . and Croft , WB , A Markov Random Field
Model for Term Dependencies , SIGIR 2005 , pp . 472 479 . [ 4 ] Tao T . , Zhai , C . , An exploration of proximity measures in information retrieval . SIGIR 2007 , pp . 295 302 .
1184WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
