Defection Detection : Predicting Search Engine Switching
Allison P . Heath
Rice University 6100 Main Street
Houston , TX 77054 aheath@rice.edu
Ryen W . White Microsoft Research One Microsoft Way
Redmond , WA 98052 ryenw@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT Searchers have a choice about which Web search engine they use when looking for information online . If they are unsuccessful on one engine , users may switch to a different engine to continue their search . By predicting when switches are likely to occur , the search experience can be modified to retain searchers or ensure a quality experience for incoming searchers . In this poster , we present research on a technique for predicting search engine switches . Our findings show that prediction is possible at a reasonable level of accuracy , particularly when personalization or user grouping is employed . These findings have implications for the design of applications to support more effective online searching .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : search process , selection process .
General Terms Measurement , Experimentation , Human Factors
Keywords Search engine switching
1 . INTRODUCTION Commercial search engines such as Google , Yahoo! , and Live Search facilitate access to the vast quantities of information present on the World Wide Web . A user ’s decision to select one search engine over another is based on many factors including reputation , familiarity , retrieval effectiveness , and interface usability [ 4 ] . Similar factors can influence a user ’s decision to temporarily or permanently switch search engines ( eg , change from Google to Live Search ) . Regardless of the motivation behind the switch , successfully predicting switches can increase search engine revenue through better user retention . Previous work on switching has sought to characterize the behavior with a view to developing metrics for competitive analysis of engines in terms of estimated user preference and user engagement [ 2 ] . Others have focused on building conceptual and economic models of search engine choice [ 3,5 ] . However , these studies did not address the important challenge of switch prediction . An ability to accurately predict when a user is going to switch allows the origin and destination search engines to act accordingly . The origin , or pre switch , engine could offer users a new interface affordance ( eg , sort search results based on different metadata ) , or search paradigm ( eg , engage in an instant messaging conversation with a domain expert ) to encourage them to stay . In contrast , the destination , or post switch , engine could pre fetch search results in anticipation of the incoming query . In this poster we take initial steps toward predicting whether a user will switch search engines , given their recent interaction history .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
2 . DATA REPRESENTATION 2.1 Search Logs We analyzed three months of interaction logs obtained from a large number of consenting users through an installed toolbar . All personally identifiable information was removed from the logs prior to analysis . From interaction logs we extracted search sessions . Every session began with a query to Google , Yahoo! , Live Search , Ask.com , or AltaVista , and contained either search engine result pages , visits to search engine homepages , or pages connected by a hyperlink trail to a search result page . A session ended if the user was idle for more than 30 minutes . Similar criteria have been used in previous work to demarcate search sessions [ eg , 6 ] . Users with less than five search sessions per month were removed to reduce potential bias from low numbers of observed interaction sequences or erroneous log entries .
2.2 Sequence Representation We represent each session as a character sequence . This allows for easy manipulation and analysis , and also removes identifying information , protecting privacy without destroying the salient aspects of search behavior that are necessary for predictive analyses . Downey et al . [ 1 ] already introduced formal models and languages that encode search behavior as character sequences , with a view to comparing search behavior in different scenarios . We formulated our own alphabet with the goal of maximum simplicity ( see Table 1 ) . In a similar way to [ 1 ] , we felt that page dwell times could be useful and we encoded these also . Dwell times were bucketed into “ short ” , “ medium ” , and “ long ” based on a tripartite division of the dwell times across all users and all pages viewed . We define a search engine switch as one of three behaviors within a session : ( i ) issuing a query to a different search engine , ( ii ) navigating to the homepage of a different search engine , or ( iii ) querying for a different search engine name .
Table 1 . Characters assigned to actions and pages visited .
Actions
Page visited
Q Query issued
R First result page ( short )
S Clicked result link
D First result page ( medium )
C Clicked non result link
H First result page ( long )
N Going back one page G Going back > one page V Navigated to new page
I Other result page ( short )
L Other result page ( medium )
K Other result page ( long )
Y Switched search engine
P Other page ( short )
E Other page ( medium )
F Other page ( long )
For example , if a user issued a query , viewed the search result page for a short period of time , clicked on a result link , viewed the page for a short time , and then decided to switch search engines , the session would be represented as “ QRSPY ” . We extracted many millions of such sequences from our interaction logs to use in the training and testing of our prediction algorithm .
1173WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China to a switch only 14,187 times . This suggests a need to reformulate or augment the session encoding . More characters could be added to the alphabet , or continuous variables , such as time , could be used in conjunction with the encoding . n=9n=5
0.8 0.8
1.0 1.0
000204060810 000204060810
0.0 0.0
3 . OBSERVATIONS ON SWITCHING In the duration of the study , approximately half of the users switched search engines at least once per month . Around 8 % of search sessions contained a search engine switch , a proportion which could have profound financial implications given the large number of users involved .
In this analysis , differences were observed when comparing user interaction behaviors before switches to user actions before nonswitches . Users seem less likely to click on non result links before switching . This may indicate an unsuccessful search . Additionally , users who have recently switched are more likely to switch again . This behavior may signal an inability to find a piece of information or a desire to try multiple search engines for reasons of diversity or topic coverage . Such patterns suggest that prediction of switching may be possible .
4 . PREDICTION OF SWITCHING As we stated earlier , accurate real time prediction could be used by Web search engine companies to improve the experience of users switching to or from their search engine .
4.1 An Online Classification Method Here we present a straightforward classification method that provides insight into the difficulty of switch prediction and directions for improvement . Other methods ( eg , hidden Markov models ) may be useful for predicting switches . Investigation of those methods is an important topic for future research .
Our method takes a parameter n which represents the number of past characters considered when performing prediction . A three column table is constructed containing previously seen distinct strings of length n , the number of times the next action was a switch ( a positive result ) , and the number of times the next action was not a switch ( a negative result ) . To perform prediction , the table is searched for the n most recent characters of a session and the the corresponding row is calculated . If the ratio is larger than a supplied parameter p , the method yields a positive prediction ; otherwise the prediction is negative . If no corresponding row is found in the table , a new row is added and a negative prediction is issued . Additionally , as each new action arrives , the table is updated . This allows the method to adapt to previously unseen search behaviors . ratio between positive and negative results in
4.2 Prediction Results Figure 1 shows the precision/recall curve produced when our method , initialized using sessions from the first half of May 2007 with n=9 and varying p , was tested with sessions from the second half of May 2007 . Our data for May 2007 contains about 1.5 million users and about 26 million search sessions . Other divisions of the data produced similar results . We obtain good precision when recall is less than 005 Since major Web search engines have high levels of traffic , significant numbers of correct positive predictions could be made despite the low recall .
The method can be improved by partitioning the users . In Figure 2 we show precision/recall results across all users for May 2007 , where the method was applied on a per user basis with n=9 and p=05 Each dot in the figure represents a user . The figure shows that predictability of individual users varies ; partitioning users in an intelligent way should help improve the switching prediction .
There are many other potential improvements . The very low number of switches compared to non switches is an obstacle to accurate prediction . For example , in May 2007 the most common string preceding a switch occurred about 2.6 million times , but led
Figure 1 . Precision/recall for May 2007 .
0.2 0.2
0.4 Recall 0.4 Recall
0.6 0.6
Figure 2 . Precision/recall partitioning by user for May 2007 .
5 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this work we analyzed several months of interaction logs to better understand the behavior of Web searchers . Based on this analysis , we took steps toward predicting when a user will switch search engines . We also discovered some important trends in search engine switching , but truly predictive patterns remain elusive and the topic deserves additional research . Future work should include ways to determine behaviors predictive of switching , improvement of the encoding , partitioning of users , and other classification methods .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Downey , D . , Dumais , S . T . & Horvitz , E . ( 2007 ) . Models of searching and browsing : Languages , studies and applications . In Proc . IJCAI , 2740 2747 .
[ 2 ] Juan , Y F & Chang , C C ( 2005 ) . An analysis of search engine switching behavior using click streams . In Proc . WWW , 1050 1051 .
[ 3 ] Mukhopadhyay , T . , Rajan , U . & Telang , R . ( 2004 ) .
Competition between internet search engines . In Proc . 37th HICSS , p . 80216a .
[ 4 ] Pew Internet & American Life Project . ( 2005 ) . Search Engine Users . Accessed October 16 , 2007 . Available at : http://wwwpewinternetorg/pdfs/PIP_Searchengine_userspdf
[ 5 ] Telang , R . , Mukhopadhyay , T . & Wilcox , R . ( 1999 ) . An empirical analysis of the antecedents of internet search engine choice . In Proc . Workshop on Information Systems and Economics ( WISE , Charlotte NC ) .
[ 6 ] White , RW & Drucker , SM ( 2007 ) . Investigating behavioral variability in web search . In Proc . WWW , 21 30 .
1174WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , ChinaP r e c i s i o n P r e c i s i o n
