The Seamless Browser : Enhancing the Speed of Web
Browsing by Zooming and Preview Thumbnails YeunBae Kim ByungIn Yoo*
JongHo Lea
Computing & Intelligence Lab .
Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology , Gyeonggi Do , Korea
{byungin.yoo , john.lea , kimybae}@samsung.com
ABSTRACT In this paper , we present a new web browsing system , Seamless Browser , for fast link traversal on a large screen like TV In navigating web , users mainly suffer from cognitive overhead of determining whether or not to follow links . This overhead can be reduced by providing preview information of the destination of links , and also by providing semantic cues on the nearest location in relation to the anchor . In order to reduce disorientation and annoyance from the preview information , we propose that users will focus on the small area nearside around a pointer , and a small number of hyperlink previews in that focused area will appear differently depending on the distances between the pointer and the hyperlinks : the nearer the distance is , the richer the content of the information scent is . We also propose that users can navigate the link paths by controlling the pointer and the zooming interface , so that users may go backward and forward seamlessly along several possible link paths . We found that combining the pointer and a zoom significantly improved performance for navigational tasks .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Hypertext/Hypermedia ] : Navigation – hyperlink search , [ User navigation Interfaces ] : Graphical user interface – zoomable user interaction . flow , distance based algorithm ; H52
General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Design , Human Factors
Keywords Seamless Browser , Zoomable Interaction , Preview Thumbnails
1 . INTRODUCTION
IPTV ( Internet Protocol Television ) is a TV system where a digital television services are delivered by using Internet Protocol over Internet . It provides Video on Demand ( VOD ) and Internet services such as web full browsing and VoIP . It is very challenging to make IPTV watching experience such as web full browsing more is inconvenient for users to use input devices in the 10 feet distance from IPTV . The 10 feet distance makes it hard to pinpoint the hypertext links or the windows amongst others when a user navigates links in web pages interactive and personalized because it
Usually when navigating through webs , users tend to have navigation problems , such as deciding which links to follow and
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . . which to ignore . Users seem to rely on various cues ( ie “ information scent ” ) in the information environment of IPTV to guide them to promising links .
For example , Kopetzky and Mühlhäuser introduced a system representing a hyperlink with a thumbnail image that appears temporarily ( 7 seconds ) at the position just below the link [ 7 ] . Fisheye based solutions such as fishnet were shown to be useful in reducing the browsing burden with the compact height of a web page [ 4 ] . Not only using a visual preview , but [ 5 ] combined the advantages of image thumbnail and text summaries . Lam and Baudisch [ 3 ] presented Summary thumbnails thumbnail views with additional text fragments . Summary thumbnails help users both recognize the content of the hyperlink and distinguish visually the pre view of it from others [ 3 ] . Previous work suggests that a number of designs with thumbnails and zoom interaction can enhance the usability of information foraging [ 6 ] .
This paper presents a new dynamic control approach in combining an image thumbnail , in addition to using both distance based thumbnails and zoom transition to the pages on a link path . In the next section we will see how our new way lightens the burden of chasing the links to find out whether the links are relevant for the user , while keeping the source context as well as determining the usefulness of the chosen link .
2 . THE SEAMLESS BROWSER
In this paper , we regard that hyperlink documents as a three dimensional space , which contains 2D of the present document and additional depth dimension relating to a path of hyperlinks in the document . So we can imagine browsing around a page with a pointer and finding some interesting link and then digging into it or jumping out of it to the previous page with a zoom interface .
Figure 1 shows the state diagram of our seamless browser way controlling with a zoom interface . When we first zoom in on a point , a surrounding area near from the point is chosen and a number of thumbnails ( the number varies from 1 to 3 depending on conditions ) within this area are shown differently based on the distance from the pointer ( ie Hyperlink searching mode ) .
Figure 1 . The state diagram of our seamless browsing way
1019WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
Figure 2 . Preview thumbnails that show content of pages
When a user moves the pointer at the hyperlink searching mode , then the size and the opacity of the thumbnails are changed dynamically : the closer will be bigger and richer ( see Fig 2 ) . If the user zooms in again , then the biggest one will swell and the others will shrink . This is the hyperlink previewing mode , and we can zoom in further to the biggest thumbnail page , and finally transfer it to the current page ( ie null state ) . When we zoom out , then we can roll back the steps we have followed .
The size and or opacity of the seamless preview thumbnails are determined based on the zoom ratio and the distances of the hyperlinks from the pointer . The distance dn between the pointer ( p ) and the hyperlink ( hn ) is calculated by Equation 1 . The distance will be restricted within some area in order to reduce the attention diversion , with the [ 2 ] principles . d n
=
( | px
− hx n
2
) |
( | + py
− hy n
)2 |
( 1 )
Equation 2 shows how to regulate the opacity of the thumbnails .
The longest distance between the pointer and a thumbnail within the area is dl . Smax denotes maximum zoom magnification , Sc indicates current zoom magnification , and Z denotes a function that normalizes a ratio of screen zoom magnification ( the range from 0 to 1 ) . The size of the preview thumbnail of the hyperlink is calculated by Equation 3 , where the maxim size of the preview thumbnail is Thmax . That is , if the nearer is the distance between the pointer and the hyperlink , the bigger the size of the thumbnail , and also the clearer the preview thumbnail will be .
Op n
=
    d n d l
+
  Z 
S max S c
  
  50 ≤× 
( 2 )
100
Th n
=
Z
   d l d n
S c
S max
 +  2
      
      
( 3 )
×
Th max
3 . EXPERIMENT
We implemented the proposed system on C# using Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0 running on the Windows XP . With a full HD ( 1920x1080 ) 52 inch Samsung LCD TV set , a web page with many hyperlinks was displayed ( with 28 pt SECPTB033 font ) . Ten participants were assigned news search tasks 10 feet away from the IPTV [ 1 ] . They used a pointing device with three buttons such as zoom in , zoom out , and enter button .
To investigate the effect of the number of the previews on how users browse on web , we analyzed the following measures : task completion time , total number of visited pages , total moving distance of the pointer , user interestedness , and user convenience . We compared three conditions : legacy ( basic ) hypertext , single thumbnail , and triple thumbnails .
Table 1 . Results of experiments in browsing webs ( 10 subjects )
Basic
Single
Triple
Task Completion Time ( Sec )
Total # of visited pages
12.8
1.6
5.9
1.1
5.7
1.1
Total moving distance of the pointer ( in pixels )
1867.4
1050.3
1125.9
User Interestedness ( 1~9 )
User Convenience ( 1~9 )
1.6
2.4
4.7
5.3
6.7
4.1
We expected that the condition with triple thumbnails ( ie one dominant and large thumbnail beside two smaller ones ) will give much more information scent than the single or the basic condition . This hypothesis was supported from task completion time , but not from the total number of visited pages . the
The single thumbnail condition was slightly more efficient as a viewpoint of total moving distance of the pointer . The users felt that the triple condition was the most interesting , and that the single condition was the most convenient way .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we proposed the seamless browser on IPTV and found that it has following benefits . First , users felt that the transition between hyperlinks using a zoom is smooth ( ie seamless ) and convenient . Second , the restriction of the cursor ’s activation area and the control of thumbnail numbers help users browse the document in a focused way ( ie reducing the movement of the pointer ) and reduce the void visiting of hyperlinks ( ie reducing the number of visited pages ) .
Our future work is to investigate the effect of the layout , location , and content variations for the multiple thumbnails
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Edward Cutrell and Zhiwei Guan , What are you looking for ?
An eye tracking study of information usage in Web search , Proc.CHI2007
[ 2 ] Tovi Grossman and Ravin Balakrishnan , The Bubble Cursor :
Enhancing Target Acquisition by Dynamic Resizing of the Cursor ’s Activation Area , Proc . CHI2005
[ 3 ] Heidi Lam and Patrick Baudish , Summary Thumbnails :
Readable Overviews for Small Screen Web Browsers , Proc . CHI 2005
[ 4 ] Patrick Baudish , Bongshin Lee and Libby Hanna , Fishnet , a fisheye web browser with search term pop outs : a comparative evaluation with overview and linear view . In Proc . AVI2004 , pp133 140
[ 5 ] Allison Woodruff , Andrew Faulring , Ruth Rosenholtz , Julie Morrison and Peter Pirolli , Using Thumbnails to Search the Web , Proc.CHI2001
[ 6 ] Igarashi , T . and Hinckley , K . Speed dependent Automatic
Zooming for Browsing Large Documents , Proc . UIST 2000 , 139 148
[ 7 ] Kopetzky , T . and Mühlhäuser , M . Visual Preview for Link
Traversal on the WWW . In Proc . 8th Intl . WWW Conf . , May 1999 , 447 454
1020WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
