Guanxiin the Chinese Web a Study of Mutual Linking
Valerie King
Louis Lei Yu
Dept . of Computer Science
Dept . of Computer Science
University of Victoria Victoria , BC , CANADA val@uvic.ca
University of Victoria Victoria , BC , CANADA yul@uvic.ca
∗
Yan Zhuang
Dept . of Computer Science
University of Victoria Victoria , BC , CANADA yzhuang@uvic.ca
ABSTRACT Guanxi is a type of dyadic social interaction based on feelings ( “ qing ” ) and trust ( “ xin ” ) . Long studied by scholars of Chinese origin , it has recently drawn the attention of researchers outside of China . We define the concept of guanxi as applied to the interaction between web sites . We explore methods to identify guanxi in the Chinese web , show the unique characteristics of the Chinese web which result from it , and introduce a mechanism for simulating guanxi in a web graph model . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H4m [ Information Systems ] : Information Systems Applications ; J.4 [ Computer Appllications ] : Social and Behavioral Sciences ; General Terms : Algorithms , Theory Keywords : web graph , social networks , stochastic graph modeling , web measurement
1 . GUANXI
The Chinese web is notable for a large number of mutually linking web sites . We hypothesize that this is in part a manifestation of a social construct known as guanxi , which can be widely observed in Chinese culture . Guanxi has been described as “ an informal personal connection between two individuals who are bounded by an implicit psychological contract to [ maintain ] a long term relationship , mutual commitment , loyalty and obligation ” [ 2 ] . Dyadic relationships are the fundamental units of guanxi networks [ 2 ] .
To establish guanxi , two parties must first establish a guanxi base : a tie between two individuals [ 2 ] , eg , same birthplace , same workplace , same family , close friendship . Also , two individuals can claim to have guanxi by acquaintance through a third party with whom they both have guanxi . Once a guanxi base is formed , guanxi can be developed through the exchange of resources ranging from moral support and friendship to favors and material goods [ 2 ] .
2 . GUANXI APPLIED TO THE WEB
We regard a web site as representing a company , a person or a news source . Two web sites may exhibit guanxi by mutual linking . Their linking may reflect a prior existing ∗ NSERC .
Authors listed alphabetically . This work was supported by
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . guanxi relationship , or two web sites can establish a guanxi base through common interests or through a third web site . We consider link exchange schemes , where only a phone call or an email is all that is required to establish the guanxi base and linking is done for the sole purpose of promoting one ’s own web site , a weaker form of guanxi which we call cheap guanxi . 1 After establishing a guanxi base , two web sites will reach a mutual agreement to exchange resources ; in this case , these resources take the form of links . Distinguishing between strong and cheap guanxi is one goal of our work .
High degree nodes : As establishing strong guanxi takes effort , mutual links incident to nodes with many mutual links are more likely to be weak guanxi . In some of our studies , we filter such edges out when considering strong guanxi .
Triangles : If two web sites A and B establish guanxi via a third web site C , mutual links may form between each pairs of the web sites . We identify two structures : a Type 1 triangle , composed of two mutual links and one uni directional link and a Type 2 triangle in which all three sides are mutual links , to be good indications of two websites establishing guanxi via a third website . Over time , we expect some Type 1 triangles to turn into Type 2 triangles . We take the number of triangles involving a mutual link to be one indication of the strength of its guanxi .
Textual clues : Chinese web sites often have a specially titled section of links labeled “ friendly links ” or sometimes in the case of commercial web sites “ partnership links ” . These links are likely to indicate either the existence of guanxi or the desire to establish guanxi with the other web sites .
3 . STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF GUANXI
IN THE CHINESE WEB
We use a web graph data set which is representative of the Chinese web [ 4 ] : CWT200G collected by Peking University in May 2006 and construct a digraph as follows : each web site is represented by a node . There is a single directed edge from node A to node B in the site graph iff there is at least one link from a web page at web site A to a web page at web site B . We refer to the resulting digraph as the Chinese site graph . It has 11,570 nodes and 475,880 edges .
We randomly sampled 30,000 web sites from the data ob
1eg , from a travel agency web page : “ Our website welcomes friendly links .Each website ’s PageRank score has to be ≥ 4 , ranking in Alexa ≥ 50 , 000 . ”
1161WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China tained from a general web crawl conducted by Microsoft in 2006 and constructed a general site graph of 30,000 nodes and 654,240 edges . 2
Directly comparing these two site graphs can be misleading since they are of different sizes and densities . So , we use the hostgraph model [ 1 ] ( where links are created by copying links of a randomly chosen prototype node as in[3 ] ) to generate random graphs with properties similar to the Chinese web . That is , by tuning the parameters of the hostgraph model , we randomly generate graphs comparable in size , density , and in degree distribution to that of the Chinese site graph . We found that the hostgraph model cannot explain the unusual number of mutual links in the Chinese site graph . A detailed comparison is illustrated in Figure 1 . if owner of both sites have established guanxi outside the web . Overall , the guanxi model can be described as follows : at each time step , depending on the density of the graph , either a new node with k edges is added or k edges are added to an existing node chosen uniformly at random . The k edges are added as follows : ( 1 ) With probability α , we add k edges to destinations using the hostgraph model ; ( 2 ) With probability 1−α , we add k guanxi edges to destinations using the guanxi mechanism .
We use this new model to generate a random graph with similar properties of the Chinese site graph extracted from CWT200G . The results are summarized in Figure 2 . By changing the parameters , we can control the percentage of nodes and links involved in mutual links , Type 1 and Type 2 triangles respectively .

Figure 1 : Fraction of nodes in mutual links in the Chinese site graph , general site graph and hostgraph model graph
4 . A GUANXI MODEL OF THE WEB
We propose a mechanism to model the evolution of the guanxi structure on the web and we inject this mechanism into the hostgraph model to produce a new model for the Chinese web . The guanxi mechanism is defined as follows : in each time step , we add k guanxi edges to a node A . The destinations of the k guanxi edges are decided as follows : we first choose a prototype uniformly at random from the existing nodes .
1 . With probability q , we add k edges with a method similar to the hostgraph model [ 1 ] . Once each edge is established , there is a probability f that the destination will link back to A .
2 . With probability 1 − q , the node A first links to the prototype and then copies the remaining k − 1 edges from the guanxi links of the prototype randomly . Once each link is established , there is a probability g that the destination will link back to A .
The copying process in ( 1 ) simulates web site A ’s attempt to form cheap guanxi links with popular web sites in order to promote his/her own web site . We set the probability f to be proportional to the relative popularity ( as determined by in degree ) of A and inversely proportional to the popularity of destination B . In ( 2 ) , we simulate the creation of guanxi links through a third party . Here g may be a fixed constant 2The crawl from Microsoft was done in a breadth first search fashion , after pre processing and spam filtering , they successfully retrieved 463,685,607 HTML pages . These pages contain 17,672,011,890 hyperlinks .
Figure 2 : Simulation results
5 . ONGOING WORK AND APPLICATIONS Currently , we are conducting experiments to refine our ability to distinguish between strong and cheap guanxi , by analyzing textual indications of guanxi in the Chinese web and studying mutual links and related graph structures as they evolve over time . We are examining our findings in light of studies of social networks and the economics of link exchange schemes . To understand guanxi on the web as a cultural phenomon , we intend to examine site graphs of other nationalities . We believe this work may have applications to tasks such as producing personally tailored recommendations , filtering out web spam , and understanding social networks .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] K . Bharat , B W Chang , M . R . Henzinger , and
M . Ruhl . Who links to whom : Mining linkage between web sites . In ICDM ’01 : Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining , pages 51–58 , Washington , DC , USA , 2001 . IEEE Computer Society .
[ 2 ] X P Chen and C . C . Chen . On the intricacies of the chinese guanxi : A process model of guanxi development . Asia Pacific Journal of Management , 21(3):305–324 , 09 2004 .
[ 3 ] J . M . Kleinberg , R . Kumar , P . Raghavan ,
S . Rajagopalan , and A . S . Tomkins . The Web as a graph : Measurements , models and methods . Lecture Notes in Computer Science , 1627:1–17 , 1999 .
[ 4 ] Q . Qi . On the construction of the document set of a large scale collection – cwt200g . Master ’s thesis , Peking University , 2006 .
1162WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
