SAILER : An Effective Search Engine for Unified Retrieval of Heterogeneous XML and Web Documents
Guoliang Li , Jianhua Feng , Jianyong Wang , Xiaoming Song , and Lizhu Zhou
Department of Computer Science and Technology , Tsinghua University , Beijing 100084 , P . R . China
{liguoliang,fengjh,jianyong,dcszlz}@tsinghuaeducn;songxm07@mailstsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT This paper studies the problem of unified ranked retrieval of heterogeneous XML documents and Web data . We propose an effective search engine called Sailer to adaptively and versatilely answer keyword queries over the heterogenous data . We model the Web pages and XML documents as graphs . We propose the concept of pivotal trees to effectively answer keyword queries and present an effective method to identify the top k pivotal trees with the highest ranks from the graphs . Moreover , we propose effective indexes to facilitate the effective unified ranked retrieval . We have conducted an extensive experimental study using real datasets , and the experimental results show that Sailer achieves both high search efficiency and accuracy , and outperforms the existing approaches significantly . Categories and Subject Descriptors H28 [ Database Applications ] : Miscellaneous General Terms Algorithms , Performance , Languages Keywords Keyword Search , XML , Web Pages , Unified Keyword Search 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Existing web search engines cannot integrate the information from multiple interrelated pages to answer keyword queries meaningfully . The next generation Web search engines require link awareness , or more generally , the capability of integrating the correlative information that are linked through hyperlinks . For example , to search for the conferences including the topic of “ Information Retrieval ” and held in “ Beijing 2008 ” , users issue a keyword query of "Conference 2008 Beijing Information Retrieval" to a search engine like GOOGLE . As we all know , "WWW 2008" is held in Beijing and “ Information Retrieval ” is one of its major research topics , but surprisingly , the homepage of "WWW 2008" is not in the top 10 results and not even in the first one hundred answers either . This is because "WWW
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
2008" splits its information into several pages methodically . The page of Important Date contains keywords "2008,Conference" , "Information Retrieval" is contained in the page of Call For Paper and "Beijing" is included in the homepage . Consequently , existing search engines often include a number of false negatives due to the limitation of their models which take only a list of individual pages as the result but neglect the fact that interrelated pages linked by hyperlinks may be more meaningful . However , this is not an ad hoc problem but ubiquitous over the Internet .
As XML is widely recognized as the data interchange standard over the Internet , the research community has been introducing keyword search capability into XML documents[3 , 4 , 5 ] . To the best of our knowledge , few existing works could be universally applied to Web pages and XML documents . Therefore , providing both effective and efficient search ability over such heterogeneous collections within a single search engine remains a big challenge . This calls for a framework for indexing and querying over large collections of heterogeneous data . To address these problems , we propose an effective search engine Sailer based on Structure Aware Indexing for unified retrievaL of hetERogeneous XML and web documents . As opposed to the traditional search engines , which return a list of individual pages as the results , Sailer extracts a set of relevant pages , which are highly interrelated and related to queries . 2 . SAILER 2.1 Graph Modeling
We model the Web pages and XML documents as graphs , where the nodes are respectively pages and elements and links are hyperlinks between pages and parent child relationships ( or IDREF ) in XML documents . We can translate the problem of keyword search over the heterogeneous data to the problem of finding the connected trees with minimal cost over the graphs , which contain all or a part of input keywords , called Steiner trees . However , it is fairly difficult to extract the Steiner trees in a large graph , which is NP hard [ 1 ] . Alternatively , we devise indices for facilitating keyword based search over large graphs . 2.2 Pivotal Trees
Definition 1 . ( Pivotal Node ) Given a graph G , a keyword ki , and a node n ∈ G that directly or indirectly contains ki , the node pn(ki,n ) , which directly contains ki and has the minimal distance with n , is called a pivotal node . That is , pn(ki,n)=argminnr{δ(nr,n)|nr ∈ G} , where nr directly contains ki and δ(nr,n ) denotes the distance between nr and n .
1061WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Definition 2 . ( Pivotal Tree ) Given a keyword query K={k1 , k2,··· , km} , and a graph G , consider node n ∈ G , the subtree rooted at n and containing the pivotal paths from n to every pivotal node pn(ki,n ) is called a Pivotal Tree .
Pivotal trees are compact connected trees in the graph , which contain all the input keywords , and therefore they can be taken as the answers of keyword queries . 2.3 Ranking We present how to effectively rank the pivotal trees . Given a pivotal tree PT and a keyword query K={k1 , k2,··· , km} , we present Equation 1 to rank the pivotal tree PT . Score(root(PT ) , ki )
Score(K,PT ) = m
( 1 ) k=1 where root(PT ) denotes the root of PT . Score(root(PT , ki ) ) denotes the score of ki in PT . Given any node n and a keyword ki , we present how to assign the score of ki in n ( ie , Score(n , ki ) ) as follows . If n directly contains ki , we propose Equation 2 to compute Score(n , ki ) .
Score(n , ki ) = ln(1 + tf ( ki , n ) ) ∗ ln(idf ( ki ) )
( 1 − s ) + s ∗ ntl(n )
( 2 ) where tf ( ki,n ) denotes the term frequency of ki in n ; idf ( ki ) denotes the inverse document frequency of ki ; ntl(n ) denotes the normalized term length of n and ntl(n)= , where |n| denotes the number of terms in n and |G| denotes the number of nodes in G ; s is a constant and usually set to 02 If n indirectly contains ki , we present Equation 3 to com n∈G |n|
|n|
|G| pute Score(n , ki ) .
Score(n , ki ) =
Score(pn(ki,n ) , ki )
σδ(pn(ki,n),n )
( 3 ) where σ is an attenuation factor . Obviously , the larger distance between ki and n , the less relevant between them . We experimentally prove that σ is usually set to 08
Note that , Score(pn(ki,n ) , ki ) can be computed based on Equation 2 , as pn(ki,n ) directly contains ki and δ(pn(ki,n ) , n ) can be pre computed off line . Accordingly , we can score the nodes that indirectly or directly contain the keywords based on Equation 2 and Equation 3 . 2.4 Indexing
We note that Score(n , ki ) in Equation 2 and Equation 3 can be pre computed off line and thus we can materialize such scores into the index . The entries of the index are the keywords that contained in the graph . Different from inverted indices which only maintain the nodes that directly contain the keyword , each entry of index preserves the nodes that directly or indirectly contain the keyword in the form of a triple <Node , Score , Pivotal Path> , where the Score is the assigned score of the keyword in the Node , and Pivotal Path preserves the path from Node to the corresponding pivotal node . Accordingly , the index captures the rich structural relationships as each entry preserves the paths from a given node to the corresponding pivotal node .
3 . EXPERIMENTAL STUDY
We have designed and performed a comprehensive set of experiments to evaluate the performance of our approach . We crawled a huge amount of real data from the Internet .
( a ) Search Efficiency
( b ) Search Quality
Figure 1 : Search Efficiency and Quality
There are four types of data in our dataset : i ) the homepages of top conferences , such as WWW , SIGIR , SIGMOD and so on ; ii ) the hompages of research groups ; iii ) the homepages of researchers ; iv ) XML , PDF , WORD and PPT documents . There were approximate 100,000,000 documents . The experiments were conducted on an Intel(R ) Pentium(R ) 2.4GHz computer with 1GB of RAM . The algorithms were implemented in Java . We compared Sailer with state of the art methods , Information Unit [ 6 ] , and SphereSearch [ 2 ] . We selected one hundred queries for the experiments . We gave the elapsed time of the first ten queries and the average precision of all the queries as illustrated in Figure 1 .
4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we have investigated the problem of unified retrieval over heterogeneous web pages and XML documents . We modeled the heterogeneous data as graphs and identified the pivotal trees to answer keyword queries . We proposed indexes for facilitating the identification of pivotal trees . We have conducted an extensive performance study to evaluate the search efficiency and quality of our method . The experimental results show that our approach achieves both high search efficiency and quality , and outperforms the existing approaches significantly .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work is partly supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No.60573094 , the National High Technology Development 863 Program of China under Grant No.2007AA01Z152 and 2006AA01A101 , the National Grand Fundamental Research 973 Program of China under Grant No2006CB303103
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Gaurav Bhalotia , Arvind Hulgeri , Charuta Nakhe , Soumen
Chakrabarti , and S . Sudarshan . Keyword searching and browsing in databases using banks . In ICDE , 2002 .
[ 2 ] Jens Graupmann , Ralf Schenkel , and Gerhard Weikum . The spheresearch engine for unified ranked retrieval of heterogeneous xml and web documents . In VLDB , 2005 .
[ 3 ] Guoliang Li , Jianhua Feng , Jianyong Wang , and Lizhu
Zhou . Efficient keyword search for valuable lcas over xml documents . In CIKM , 2007 .
[ 4 ] Guoliang Li , Beng Chin Ooi , Jianhua Feng , Jianyong Wang , and Lizhu Zhou . EASE : Efficient and Adaptive Keyword Search on Unstructured , Semi structured and Structured Data . In SIGMOD , 2008 .
[ 5 ] Guoliang Li , Jianhua Feng , Jianyong Wang , and Lizhu
Zhou . RACE : Finding and Ranking Compact Connected Trees for Keyword Proximity Search over XML Documents . In WWW , 2008 .
[ 6 ] Wen Syan Li , K . Selcuk Candan , Quoc Vu , and Divyakant
Agrawal . Retrieving and organizing web pages by ‘information unit’ . In WWW , 2001 .
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000Q10Q9Q8Q7Q6Q5Q4Q3Q2Q1Elapsed Time(ms)QueriesInfo UnitSphereSearchSailer 50 60 70 80 90 100Top 100Top 50Top 20Top 10Top 5Top 1Top k PrecisionTop kInfo UnitSphereSearchSailer1062WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
