WS10A – Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge
Management ( SWKM2008 )
Peter Dolog
Aalborg University
Denmark
Dept . of Computer Science Selma Lagerlöfs Vej 300 DK 9220 Aalborg East , dolog@csaaudk Sebastian Schaffert Salzburg Research Jakob Haringer Str . 3 A 5020 Salzburg , Austria sebastian.schaffert @salzburgresearch.at
Markus Krötzsch
Universität Karlsruhe ( TH )
Institut AIFB
D 76128 Karlsruhe , Germany kroetzsch@aifb.uni karlsruhe.de
Denny Vrandecic
Universität Karlsruhe ( TH )
Institut AIFB
D 76128 Karlsruhe , Germany vrandecic@aifb.uni karlsruhe.de
ABSTRACT This paper provides an overview on the synergies between social web and knowledge managemen , topics , program committee members as well as summary of accepted papers for the SWKM2008 workshop .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H34 [ Systems and Software ] : [ Information networks , User profiles and alert services ] ; H31 [ Content Analysis and Indexing ] : [ Dictionaries , Indexing methods ] ; H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous ; H53 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Group and Organization Interfaces—Computer supported cooperative work , Organizational design , Web based interaction ; H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : Hypertext/Hyperme dia— Navigation , User Issues
General Terms Algorithms , Design , Human Factors , Management
Keywords Social Web , Knowledge Management , Semantic Web , Web 2.0
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The social web , the most interesting part of the Web 2.0 , aims at bringing people together and facilitating richer interaction among them . It is characterized by a strong focus on communities where people share experiences , information and knowledge , meet and discuss , or do business together . The social web challenges will be studied in this workshop from two perspectives : knowledge management and social web search and mining .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
Knowledge management systems focus on knowledge and experience sharing . They enhance organization capabilities by externalizing knowledge of its employees and combine them in novel forms . Therefore , there is a common interest in social structures as well as social computing in both fields . The social web can be the common underlying platform for novel and web based knowledge management systems . It breaks up rigid processes and enables much richer interaction possibilities and creativity . In this workshop we bring together people from the areas of social web technologies , semantic systems , and knowledge management . The main purpose of the workshop is to study synergies between social computing , social web , semantic systems , and knowledge management and provide a look at the current state of the art in the area .
2 . TOPICS
Main topics of interest in the areas of Social Semantic Web and Knowledge Management include but are not limited to :
• Knowledge management , semantics and social web • Flexible processes for knowledge management on social web
• Wikis , blogs and other means for information sharing • Personalization and User Modeling in semantic wikis , blogs , and other Web 2.0 applications • Personalized Search in the social web • Reasoning and Reason Maintanace on the social web • Text and media extraction , clustering and classifica tion and social web
• Privacy and security for knowledge management and social web
• Theoretical models of communities on social web • Discovering social structures and communities • Evolution and temporal analysis of online social net works
• Integration of heterogeneous social web applications • Applications of social web
1279WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China 3 . PROGRAM COMMITEE
• Harith Alani , University of Southampton , UK • Anupriya Ankolekar , HP Labs , Palo Alto , USA • Francois Bry , LMU Munich , Germany • John Davies , BT , Ipswich , UK • Norbert Eisinger , LMU Munich , Germany • Hans J¨org Happel , FZI , Karlsruhe , Germany • Tom Heath , Open University , UK • Martin Hepp , STI Innsbruck , University of
Innsbruck , Austria
• Nick Kings , BT , Ipswich , UK • Hong Gee Kim , Seoul National University , South
Korea
• Qing Li , City University of Hong Kong , China • Peter Mika , Yahoo! Research , Barcelona , Spain • Peter Axel Nielsen , AAU Aalborg , Denmark • Natasha Noy , Stanford University , USA • Eyal Oren , VU Amsterdam , The Netherlands • Valentina Presutti , Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technology ( CNR ) , Italy
• Timothy K . Shih , Tamkang University , Taiwan • Elena Simperl , STI Innsbruck , University of
Innsbruck , Austria
• Pavel Smrz , BUT Brno , Czech Republic • York Sure , SAP Research , CAC Karlsruhe , Germany • Hideaki Takeda , Tokyo Research Institute , Japan • Marcel Tilly , European Microsoft Innovation Center ,
Aachen , Germany
• Tania Tudorache , Stanford University , USA
4 . RESEARCH CONTRIBUTIONS
SWKM2008 workshop received fifteen submissions out of which we have selected six for presentation and publication in workshop proceedings . The accepted contributions span across various topics such as generation of user profiles from folksonomies , maintenance costs for large hyperstructures in wikis , access permissions set according to transitive relationships in social networks , tagging , link sharing as well as service integration for cultural heritage .
[ 6 , 4 ] focus tagging in social web . The first paper describes an analysis of personal data in folksonomies and proposes a clustering based algorithm for generating user profiles which reflect multiple user interests accurately [ 6 ] . The second paper describes a first step towards a reference framework to support semantic characterization of web content [ 6 ] .
[ 5 , 2 ] focus on collaborative co creation of information structures on the social web . StYLiD [ 5 ] proposes a system which supports sharing of user defined information structures of various kinds . The system provides semiautomatic support for aligning such structures thus creating a unified view and consolidation of knowledge entered into the system . A proposal for co creation of cultural heritage for the mobile web , where individual users contribute and collectively evolve shared resources is described in [ 2 ] .
Relationships in social networks are exploited by [ 3 ] . The paper studies how transitive relationships in social network can contribute to trust access permissions . It exploits a graph based approach and shows that it is sufficient to set permissions at the closest neighbor level . The social network then propagates permissions , using specific algorithms as outlined in the paper . Reported practical results indicate that the approch could indeed be promising .
Last but not least , [ 1 ] presents results of a study on the evolution of hyperstructures in wikis . Moreover , they discuss how approaches developed in the hypertext community can be applied in the context of ( semantic ) wikis for document and knowledge management .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This event is supported by the EU projects ACTIVE1 and KIWI2 . We would like to thank our program committee members for invaluable work dedicated to the reviews . We also would like to thank authors of submitted papers for their contributions which allowed for a very attractive program .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Boulain , P . , Shadbolt , N . , and Gibbins , N .
Hyperstructure maintenance costs in large scale wikis . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
[ 2 ] Coppola , P . , Lomuscio , R . , Mizzaro , S . , and Nazzi , E . m dvara 2.0 : Mobile & web 2.0 services integration for cultural heritage . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
[ 3 ] Hong , D . , and Shen , V . Y . Setting access permission through transitive relationship in web based social networks . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
[ 4 ] Ronzano , F . , Marchetti , A . , Tesconi , M . , and
Minutoli , S . Tagpedia : a semantic reference to describe and search for web resources . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
[ 5 ] Shakya , A . , Takeda , H . , and Wuwongse , V . Stylid :
Social information sharing with free creation of structured linked data . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
[ 6 ] Yeung , C . A . , Gibbins , N . , and Shadbolt , N . A study of user profile generation from folksonomies . In SWKM 2008 : Intl . Workshop on Social Web and Knowledge Management @ WWW 2008 ( 2008 ) .
1http://wwwactive projecteu/ 2http://wwwkiwi projecteu/
1280WWW 2008 / Workshop Summary April 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
