Influencers and Their Barriers to Technology Nerija Titus Ann Hsieh Yahoo , Inc . Yahoo , Inc . 701 First Ave 701 First Ave
Yahoo , Inc . 701 First Ave
Todd Hausman
Sunnyvale , CA 94040
1 650 796 8310
Sunnyvale , CA 94040
1 650 283 3336
Sunnyvale , CA 94040
1 510 206 4340 ahsieh@yahoo inc.com thausman@yahoo inc.com nerija@yahoo inc.com
ABSTRACT Modern Day Marco Polos , young influencers in emerging markets who have more access to technology than their peers , often act as the gateway to new websites and technology in their respective countries . However , as they influence their peers through account gifting , they are often met with barriers such as language .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H.m MISCELLANEOUS General Terms Design , Languages Keywords Emerging markets , International , Ethnography 1 . INTRODUCTION In emerging markets , technology customers are generally introduced to new websites and products by influencers , younger people who have more access to high tech products . We dubbed these influencers , “ Modern Day Marco Polos , ” due to their propensity to explore and navigate new and foreign technologies . However , as these Marco Polos introduce their family and friends to new products through account gifting , they confront many barriers , one of which is language . 2 . BACKGROUND In May of 2007 , five ethnographic researchers from Yahoo! began an investigation of issues and problems faced by customers in the emerging markets of Brazil , India and Vietnam . The initial study was conducted first in the United States to build a comparison model . The research team looked at usage patterns associated with different communications technologies , paying special attention to how e mail , IM and social networks are utilized . The team collected in home observation , interviews , surveys of users' homes , and diaries where people documented their weekly communication habits . 2.1 Methodology and Analysis Thirteen participants were interviewed in each country in the context of their computer use . Locations included internet cafés , schools , homes , and offices . An observational methodology called “ Day in the Life ” was employed for three of each of the thirteen interviews per country . The “ Day in the Life ” observations consisted of 8 hour time periods spent with each participant . to immerse themselves in the participants’ lifestyle , experiencing their daily routines and interactions with their environments . Before all the interviews were conducted in the countries , a week long diary
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . information through a process of
This allowed the research team advanced was completed by each of the participants documenting their daily routines and communication and community related activities . The main goals of the study were to provide an integrated analysis of international communications and community trends likely to emerge within the next two years , identify boundaries , gaps , and overlaps among existing products , and reveal similarities and differences among the countries studied . 3 . MODERN DAY MARCO POLO A key finding of this study is that migrants act as modern day Marco Polos , bringing back communications technology to their inner circle of friends and family from ventures out of the country for work or education [ 1 ] . Like the ancient explorer returning from the Silk Road , a family in Vietnam was introduced to voice over IP ( VOIP ) by their daughter who had returned from college in the United States . She then linked her mother based in Vietnam with her aunt in the United States using free telephony software . Though these families are separated by oceans , they are using voice overinternet services , IM and e mail , all of which are cheap or free , to stay close and connected . This family is one of a growing number in Vietnam that is seeking out inexpensive ways to connect to the more than 3 million Vietnamese living abroad . 3.1 Account Gifting Similarly , Yahoo! is winning new customers in India through account gifting . India ’s Internet audience is young ; nearly 60 % is under the age of thirty . The study revealed that many new accounts are being created for peers , parents and older siblings . The first time a product like Yahoo! Mail is used , it is typically at the guidance of a younger sibling or cousin who has given the gift of a username and password . For example , a father in Bangalore , uses his younger daughter , one of our participants , as an e mail proxy , communicating to his older daughter in college several hundred miles away through the finger tips and computer savvy of his youngest daughter . The youngest daughter created the account and often takes dictation from her father when composing letters for him . She became computer savvy through an influencer in her local Internet café who shows her where and what to click in order to send an e mail . Although she is the influencer at home in the Internet café , she is the follower to another more experienced patron . In her case , she has both an influencer in person and paper . Often , she uses Yahoo! Mail while reading step by step instructions in PC magazines . All the participants interviewed in this study were transplants to Bangalore . As far as living environment , family members did not have any personal space , so hence , there was no secrecy between family and close friends . In a sense , they shared a collective identity as well as belonging , and this boundary of privacy is rarely crossed by strangers
1103WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China in America . to Generation M
Also , in India , those who have internet access at home and are subsequently more technologically savvy , become key influencers to their friends and family . In Indian society , there is great pressure to succeed in education . Those who knew more about technology can use it to their advantage , such as doing educational research or searching for jobs online , which is the top online activity conducted in India [ 2 ] . Influencers are treated with great respect for their knowledge and guidance . In Brazil , Orkut , a popular social network , is the most popular website in the country [ 3 ] . Contrasting the social stigma in America where only young people are perceived to use popular social networks , Orkut is part of society in Brazil , as it is not only used by teenagers , but parents , relatives , and even taxi drivers as well . One reason for the ubiquity of Orkut is most likely due to the power of influencers and the practice of account gifting . One of our participants , an 18 year old student , was not only technologically savvy in terms of adopting new websites and exploring advanced features of computer applications , she was also a strong “ gifter . ” She not only used Orkut herself but created accounts for her mother , sister , and brother . She taught them how to upload pictures and leave scraps for each other , and in this way , was their gateway to Orkut . Cultural context may be a big reason why account gifting is more predominant in developing regions . In Brazil and Asia , because most young adults live with their parents and sometimes even close to extended relatives , they perceive less boundaries to privacy compared Many participants often shared bedrooms with siblings , and one computer was shared by an entire family . 3.2 Language as a Barrier for Influencers Language is a key issue for international users , especially for those in developing countries where English is less spoken by most users . Since new Internet users do not necessarily have firsthand knowledge of the products they are using , issues of language and the physical location of elements on the page are greatly magnified . Ultimately , they prove to be great barriers to long term adoption . As these US based products reinvent themselves to compete with domestic competitors , they create problems for their new customers in these emerging markets . Because international users do not understand the English labels for buttons and call to actions , they tend to memorize the location of an element on the screen . For example , they may not know the English words for “ Compose Email , ” but they know they need to click on the button in the top left corner of the screen . Thus , when the application is redesigned and the button is moved from the left corner to the center of the screen , the application is rendered unusable . The follower must go back to their influencer , so they can relearn the product . This bottleneck often means that the product is not used for months at a time , which can be perceived by the US based company as churn , and the account as a consequence 4 . CONCLUSION Successful products need to celebrate and empower their Marco Polos in emerging countries , and to do so , companies cannot overlook the fact that many other factors , such as language differences , can affect the adoption of new products and websites . A glimpse into the future of communication tools reveals that a successful product must cater to key constituents : the influencer and the follower . To win the influencer , products can continue to these three innovate and push the technology envelope . Our research also reminds us that communication about our product happens on three levels : customer to customer ( ie Influencer to Follower ) , media to customer ( ie corporate communication , PR ) , and product to customer ( ie tutorials and inline help ) . A successful product needs maintain each of levels of communication . From a corporate communications standpoint , as time necessitates change , the public relations team needs to announce new features to invigorate the influencers , but also reintroduce the follower to existing features and functionalities . This could take the form of a cheat sheets on how to perform the most basic features written in the local language but demonstrating usage on the English version of the product . Recommendations for dealing with these issues involve designing for a country while keeping these factors in mind . Some heuristics to think about are : Distance is a factor : As new features are introduced , we must remember to take into consideration the great distances that often separate our customers . This research suggests there is a great need for communication coordination . Before starting a voice over internet phone call , set up appointments to meet online coordinated through IM or email . Future tools need to embrace this behavior and allow for reminders via SMS or email that help continue technologyenabled family reunions . families often
Have training wheels for followers : Our best evangelists care enough to give our products as gifts and take the time to explain the most basic features to their followers . In a sense , we need to build training wheels for our products , so one can test drive it easily while still getting a sense of what it can do . Some ways of doing this are creating dedicated help pages that succinct and brief , explain how to use your product in one page that can be printed easily , list both the product brand name and URL clearly on the page , and allow the language and font size to be changed easily if a support section has been localized .
Leadership tools for the influencers : Account gifting should be focused on for influencers . Give tools to influencers such as pre made contacts lists or starter toolkits ( ie tips , howtos ) for their peers , so that they can become our best sales people . Offer translation tools so that the influencer can make our sites and applications more accessible to their network .
Language versus icons : Remember the US version of your product will be used around the world even if you try to localize it to a specific region . There is a tough balance between text labels and icons . When possible , use icons to convey functionality instead of text . Sometimes complex actions cannot be summed up in an icon , but often complex actions cannot be easily translated . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Home Truths about Telecoms http://wwweconomistcom/science/tq/displaystorycfm?story _id=9249302
[ 2 ] India Online 2007 : 30 million internet users , 20 million online everyday . JuxtConsult , 2007 . [ 3 ] Google ’s Orkut Captivates Brazilians http://wwwihtcom/articles/2006/04/09/business/orkutphp
1104WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
