Towards Robust Trust Establishment in
Web Based Social Networks with SocialTrust
James Caverlee
Dep’t of Computer Science
Texas A&M University
College Station , TX 77843 caverlee@cstamuedu
Ling Liu
College of Computing
Georgia Tech
Atlanta , GA 30332 lingliu@ccgatechedu
Steve Webb
College of Computing
Georgia Tech
Atlanta , GA 30332 webb@ccgatechedu
ABSTRACT We propose the SocialTrust framework for tamper resilient trust establishment in online social networks . Two of the salient features of SocialTrust are its dynamic revision of trust by ( i ) distinguishing relationship quality from trust ; and ( ii ) incorporating a personalized feedback mechanism for adapting as the social network evolves . social network , meaning users have no assurances over the vast majority of all participants in the network .
Malicious users can exploit the perceived social connection between users for increasing the probability of disseminating misinformation , of driving participants to the seedy side of the Internet ( eg , to sites hosting malware ) , and of other disruptions to the quality of community based knowledge .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H35 Information Storage and Retrieval : Online Information Services
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Web based social networking services like the ones offered by MySpace and Facebook support the management of social relationships , connecting millions of users . MySpace alone has grown from 1 million user accounts in 2004 to an astonishing 250 million accounts today .
This growth has not come without a price , however . The large social networking sites have been the target of specialized phishing attacks , impersonating profiles , spam , targeted malware dissemination , and new threats are certain to emerge as attackers grow in sophistication . While there are important problems associated with securing the social network infrastructure , we explore vulnerabilities to the quality of information available through online social networks even when the underlying social network infrastructure has been secured . In particular , we identify three vulnerabilities : ( cid:129 ) Malicious Infiltration : Most online social networks provide some limits as to who can participate , often requiring a valid email address or a registration form . As a result , many social networks give the illusion of security [ 1 ] , but malicious participants can still gain access . ( cid:129 ) Nearby Threats : The small world phenomenon [ 6 ] means that there is a short distance in the network between any two participants . Even if a user has tight control over his direct friends , malicious users can be just a few hops away . ( cid:129 ) Limited Network View : Even if a user in the social network maintains tight control over her friends and closely monitors the quality of her neighbors’ friends , she will still have access to only a limited view of the entire
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
2 . THE SOCIALTRUST MODEL
With these problems in mind , we present the initial design of SocialTrust , a reputation based trust aggregation framework for supporting tamper resilient trust establishment in online social networks . The benefits of reputationbased trust from a user ’s perspective include the ability to rate neighbors , a mechanism to reach out to the rest of the community , and some assurances on unknown users .
Initially all users are treated equally . SocialTrust supports trust maintenance through dynamic revision of trust ratings according to three critical components : the current quality component of trust T rq(i , t ) , the history component , and the adaptation to change component . The SocialTrust score for user i at time t is defined as :
Z t
ST ( i , t ) = α · T rq(i , t ) + β · 1 t where T r . approach is similar to a Proportional Integral Derivative ( PID ) controller used in feedback control systems [ 7 ] . q(i , t ) is the derivative of T rq(i , x ) at x = t . This
ST ( i , x)dx + γ · T r . q(i , t )
0
By tuning α , β , and γ , the SocialTrust model can be optimized along a number of dimensions , eg , ( i ) to emphasize the most recent behavior of a user in the network ( via higher values of α ) ; ( ii ) to de emphasize the current user ’s behavior in the context of his entire history of behavior ( via higher values of β ) ; or ( iii ) to amplify sudden fluctuations in behavior ( via higher values of γ ) .
Given the overall SocialTrust approach , what is an appropriate choice of the base trust metric T rq(i , t ) ? In light of the vulnerabilities previously identified , we suggest that a good base trust metric should incorporate two key features : 1 . Distinguishing Relationship Quality from Trust . Many trust models ( eg , [ 4 , 5 ] ) evaluate the relative trustworthiness of a node ( or user , in our case ) based on the trustworthiness of all nodes pointing to it , but make no distinction about the relationship ( or link ) quality of each node . In essence , these approaches make no distinction between the trust placed in a user and the trust placed in a user ’s relationships . Intuitively , we would like to differentiate between
1163WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China users who consistently engage in high quality relationships with other users versus users who tend to engage in lower quality relationships . 2 . Incorporating Personalized User Feedback . Second , trust models based solely on network topology are divorced from the underlying behavior of the users in the network . Relationships in the online social network provide the basis for trust aggregation , but there is no feedback mechanism for dynamically updating the quality of the trust assessments based on how well each user in the network behaves . Hence , we are interested in “ closing the loop ” so that the trust assessments may be dynamically updated as the social network evolves and as the quality of each user ( with respect to user feedback ) changes over time .
Based on these observations , SocialTrust assesses user i ’s trust rating T rq(i ) according to the user ’s relationship link quality L(i ) and her feedback rating F ( i ) through a recursive formulation :
X j∈rel(i )
T rq(i ) = λ
L(j ) · T rq(j)/|rel(j)| + ( 1 − λ)F ( i ) where |rel(i)| is the total number of relationships i participates in and λ is a tunable mixing parameter . The intuition is that a user ’s trustworthiness should be determined by both : ( i ) the number and trustworthiness of the users who recommend her ( via relationships in the social network ) ; and ( ii ) the relationship link quality of each recommending user . In this way , a recommendation from a high trust/high linkquality user counts more than a recommendation from a high trust/low link quality user . The feedback rating F ( i ) favors users who have been rated highly by other users , according to the mixing factor 1 − λ .
3 . PRELIMINARY EVALUATION
We have evaluated SocialTrust in a simulation over a directed graph consisting of 5,199,886 nodes and 19,145,842 relationship links that we harvested from MySpace . We refer the interested reader to [ 3 ] for more discussion of the simulation setup and how link quality and feedback are computed . We consider a scenario in which an originating user has an information need ( eg , looking for a job in Texas , finding a good restaurant ) for which she can use her social network . The basic scenario is this : a user browses her relationships up to some radius looking for candidate users to ask ; based on an analysis of their profiles , she constructs a set of candidate users who might satisfy her information need ; based on the provided trust ratings , she selects the top k most trusted candidate users ; she asks all top k ; if she is satisfied , she provides positive feedback to the trust manager ; otherwise , she provides negative feedback . We model two types of users : ( i ) malicious users , who always provide an irrelevant response when asked ; and ( ii ) legitimate users , who sometimes accidentally provide an irrelevant response when asked . For a query q , let R+ denote the set of relevant users for q throughout the entire space of users and let Rn denote the n top ranked candidate users ( by trust value ) . We measure a focused version of the standard precision measure that considers the quality of the responses in the top n ( the relative precision @ n ) : precn =
|R+∩Rn| min(|Rn|,n ) .
In Figure 1 , we compare SocialTrust to several related trust models adapted from the Web and P2P domain to on
Figure 1 : Comparing trust models line social networks . We consider a PageRank based trust model that considers only the relationship structure of the social network ; a TrustRank based model that uses feedback ratings as a priori trust ( which is equivalent to EigenTrust from the P2P domain ) ; a preliminary SocialTrust [ Cred Only ] model that incorporates relationship link quality only but no feedback ratings ( which is similar in spirit to credibility based link analysis explored in the Web domain [ 2] ) ; and the final SocialTrust model . When a proportion of highly trusted users behave maliciously , PageRank and TrustRank have no mechanism for correcting this bad behavior . In contrast , the SocialTrust model incorporates link quality and feedback ratings into the trust assessment so that bad behavior is punished , and so the resulting precision measures are resilient to the presence of a large fraction of malicious users in the network . These initial results are encouraging , and we working to further explore the key properties impacting SocialTrust .
4 . CONTINUING WORK
In our future work , we are interested in developing contextaware extensions of SocialTrust so that the network may support multiple trust views of each user depending on the context . We also see opportunities to augment the evaluation of relationship link quality , so that it considers more sophisticated features like the nature , duration , and value of each relationship . On the implementation side , we continue work on a SocialTrust powered community platform that can be layered on top of existing social networks .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] S . B . Barnes . A privacy paradox : Social networking in the
United States . First Monday , 11(9 ) , September 2006 .
[ 2 ] J . Caverlee and L . Liu . Countering Web spam with credibility based link analysis . In PODC , 2007 .
[ 3 ] J . Caverlee , L . Liu , and S . Webb . SocialTrust : Tamper resilient trust establishment in online communities . Technical report , Texas A&M University , 2008 .
[ 4 ] Z . Gy¨ongyi , H . Garcia Molina , and J . Pedersen . Combating
Web spam with TrustRank . In VLDB , 2004 .
[ 5 ] S . D . Kamvar , M . T . Schlosser , and H . Garcia Molina . The
EigenTrust algorithm for reputation management in P2P networks . In WWW , 2003 .
[ 6 ] S . Milgram . The small world problem . Psychology Today , pages 60 – 67 , May 1967 .
[ 7 ] M . Srivatsa , L . Xiong , and L . Liu . TrustGuard : Countering vulnerabilities in reputation management for decentralized overlay networks . In WWW , 2005 .
1164WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
