Panel
Protecting the Web :
Phishing , Malware , and Other Security Threats
Organizer : Greg Aaron
Afilias , Horsham , PA USA
+1 215 706 5700 gaaron@afilias.info
Katharine A . Bostik Microsoft Corporation ,
South East Asia
Edmon Chung
DotASIA Organisation ,
Hong Kong
Rod Rasmussen
Internet Identity United States with external organizations and law enforcement to protect children impacted by the Internet . Prior to joining Microsoft , Katharine served as a US federal prosecutor for over 11 years .
Rod Rasmussen , Internet Identity , United States Rod is widely recognized as a leading expert on the abuse of the domain name system by phishing criminals . He is co founder of Internet Identity , which provides anti phishing services to hundreds of large and small banks and financial institutions in the US and Europe . He serves on the steering committee for the Authentication and Online Trust Alliance ( AOTA ) , is an active member of Digital PhishNet , a collaboration between industry and law enforcement , and is the Anti Phishing Working Group's liaison to ICANN , the international oversight body for domain names . Rasmussen earned an MBA from the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley and holds two bachelor ’s degrees , in Economics and Computer Science , from the University of Rochester .
Edmon Chung , DOTAsia Organisation , Hong Kong top level domain . DotAsia inventor of patents underlying
Edmon is CEO of DotAsia Organisation , the operator of the new .ASIA is a not for profit , community based organisation based in Hong Kong . Edmon is an for internationalized domain names ( IDN ) and email addresses on the Internet . Edmon is currently serving as the Vice Chair for the Internet Society HK , as an elected member of the Elections Committee of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region , an elected councillor of the ICANN GNSO Council , and to the Secretariat for the ICANN APRALO ( Asia Pacific At Large Organisation ) . technologies
PANEL SUMMARY Web site operators , Internet users , and online service providers are besieged by a growing array of abuses and threats . Spam leads users to online scams and phishing Web pages , which cyber criminals use to steal users’ financial data and passwords . Other criminals use Web sites to spread malware , which can steal personal data or take over users’ computers into a botnet , which can be used to send spam or mount cyber attacks against Web sites and other Internet services . Together , these abuses undermine user trust , hamper e commerce , and cost the Internet community huge losses in money , service and support costs , and time . What should Web site operators and online service providers do to protect themselves and their users ? What are Internet companies , organizations , and law enforcement doing ( and not the doing ) international Internet community work these problems ? The panel brings together representatives from the chain of organizations that respond to Internet abuse problems , and promises a lively , compelling , and relevant discussion .
And how can these problems ? together on to combat
Categories & Subject Descriptors : K41 [ Public Policy Issues ] : Abuse and Crime Involving Computers General Terms : Security , Legal Aspects , Reliability Katharine Bostik , Microsoft Corporation , Southeast Asia Katharine is Microsoft ’s Senior Director of Legal and Corporate Affairs in South East Asia . She is responsible for leading Microsoft ’s efforts across South Asia Pacific in developing and implementing Microsoft ’s Internet safety initiatives , focused on protecting the public from threats including malicious code , botnets , spam , online fraud , and other cyber attacks . She collaborates with governments , industry , law enforcement , and consumers to build partnerships focused on public policy , education , and enforcement . Katharine leading Microsoft ’s efforts in protecting children online by working
Copyright is held by the author/owners WWW2008 , April 21 25 , 2008 , Beijing , China ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . is also
1253WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China law enforcement association
Greg Aaron , Afilias , United States Greg is Director of Key Account Management and Domain Security at Afilias . He serves on the steering committee of the Anti Phishing Working Group ( APWG ) , the international panindustrial and focused on eliminating identity theft resulting from phishing , pharming , and email spoofing of all types . His company , Afilias , operates the .INFO top level domain ( TLD ) and provides technical and advising services for thirteen other TLDs , including .ORG and .IN ( India ) . Mr . Aaron oversees Afilias' security programs , designed to address domain name abuses such as phishing , spam , and malware . He is also expert on domain name intellectual property issues and Internationalized Domain Names ( IDNs ) . Greg advises the Government of India regarding domain and related Internet policies . He is a member of the W3C ’s Internationalization Core Working Group and previously worked at Internet companies such as Travelocity . Greg graduated magna cum the University of Pennsylvania . laude from
Additional Panelist to be announced
1254WWW 2008 / Panel OverviewApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
