Online Auctions Efficiency : A Survey of eBay Auctions eBay Research Labs
88 KeYuan Road
Hu Wenyan
Shanghai 201203 , China wehu@ebay.com
Alvaro Bolivar eBay Research Labs 2145 Hamilton Avenue San Jose , CA 95125 , USA abolivar@ebay.com
ABSTRACT Online auctions have become a pervasive transaction mechanism for e commerce . As the largest online marketplace in the world , eBay is an attractive case study that enables the study of online auctions utilizing data involving real people and transactions .
In this paper , we present a detailed investigation and analysis of multiple online auction properties including : consumer surplus , sniping , bidding strategy and their crossrelationships . Our goal is to evaluate the theoretical foundations of online auctions and discover patterns and behaviors hidden due to the lack of real and extensive transaction data . Among our findings , we uncover an important correlation among sniping and high surplus ratios , which implies the uncertainty of true value in a competitive environment . The key issue is the wrong assumption that bidders’ valuations are independent from each other , which leads to inefficient auctions .
In order to address the inefficiencies of current online formats we introduce a declining price auction model customized for online transactions . Conceptually , this model ought to deal with the complexities of competition in an online environment while maximizing social welfare .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms Economics , Measurement , Performance , Thoery
Keywords Auction Efficiency , Auction Theory , Online Auctions
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Online auctions have become increasingly popular over the last few years with a matching growth of research work in the subject . As the largest e commerce web site in the world , eBay provides an extensive transaction platform for a wide range of items . This attracts millions of buyers and sellers daily with volumes in the order of U S $1800 per second . Such a platform has become an important transaction data source of great interest to researchers . In this paper , Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . Distribution of these papers is limited to classroom use , and personal use by others . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . we explore this data further and identify interesting user behaviors and correlations .
We start this section by exploring some basic economic notions related to auction formats . We cover some of the related work and results in this area followed by a description of our data sources . We finish the section with the layout and structure of the rest of the paper . 1.1 Basic Concepts
An auction is defined as a selling mechanism where a plurality of goods or services are open to bids and then transferred to the winning bidder or bidders . Economic theory considers certain auction formats as efficient pricing mechanisms . When discussing efficiency in this paper , we specifically refer to Economic Efficiency , in particular , Pareto Efficiency . An allocation of goods is Pareto Efficient if there is no movement to another allocation that would make one individual better without making any other individual worse off . We also use the terms efficient and optimal interchangeably .
Auctions may be characterized by common features in both the online and offline world . Some of these features are :
• Public vs . Private : In public auctions , the bidders’ identities are open and anyone is welcome to attend the auction . Private auctions hide the bidders’ identities and whoever wins the auction remains anonymous .
• Open vs . Sealed : In open auctions , all bid amounts are exposed to the world , while in sealed auctions , on the other hand , bid amounts are concealed , additionally , all bidders ignore the number of bids or bid amounts during the duration of the auction .
• First price vs . Second price : This feature refers to the price to be paid at the end of auction . In first price auctions , the winner pays exactly the highest bid . In second price auctions , the second highest bid is paid . • English vs . Dutch : This feature defines the price direction during the auction ’s lifespan . An auction may start with a low price and increase as new bids arrive until the end of the auction : English auction ; or , start with a high price , which drops in some fashion until it reaches someone ’s bid or the auction ends at a minimum price : Dutch auction .
• Fixed End time vs . Auto extend End time : The end time of auction could be fixed or auto extended depending of the activity at the end of the auction . For
925WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China example , an auction is ended until N minutes have passed without new bids .
• Hidden Reserve Price : A hidden reserve price is the minimum amount that a seller is willing to receive for an item . This price remains hidden until the reserve is reached .
We define an Auction Format as a linear combination of the above features . When comparing auction formats , one of the most common questions is that whether two formats are revenue equivalent 1 , meaning , the result in the same expected sale price . One of the most celebrated theorems in Auction Theory is the Revenue Equivalence Theorem . The theorem suggests that any two auction formats are revenue equivalent if :
• the bidder with the highest type/signal/value always wins ,
• the bidder with the lowest possible type/value/signal expects zero surplus ,
• where all bidders are risk neutral and • drawn from a strictly increasing and atomless distri bution .
The eBay marketplace offers multiple auction formats . The default format is an English Auction . Multiple item auctions , of the same item type , are referred as Dutch Auctions ; however , this contradicts the textbook definition . In this paper , we only cover the former auction format as it is the most commonly used2 . EBay ’s English auction format is a combination of second price , public , either open or sealed3 , with an optional hidden reserve price and a fixed end time . 1.2 Related Work
There is extensive research in the area of online auctions , specifically eBay auctions . Sniping and bidding strategies are one of the most sought after topics . Roth and Ockenfels[1 ] indicated in their paper that in view of the distinct rules for ending an auction , the proportion of sniping is substantially higher in eBay than in Amazon . Opposite to eBay , Amazon employs an auto extend end time format exclusively . Roth and Ockenfels[2 ] , and Wang , et al.[3 ] have also addressed that sniping is an optimal strategy for incremental bidders . Barbaro and Bracht[4 ] have showed that sniping can effectively prevent being shilled , and it is a rational reaction to existing eBay rules that allows a bidder to retract and a seller to cancel a bid . Gray and Reiley[5 ] have found evidence of lower prices in the range of 2.54 % of the final value for sniped auctions ; however , the benefit is not statistically significant . Wilcox[6 ] , Ockenfels and Roth[7 ] have investigated 535 electronic auctions spanning four categories on eBay and introduced the phenomenon that experts are more likely to bid late .
1http://enwikipediaorg/wiki/Revenue_equivalence# Revenue_equivalence 2Items sold by English Auction account for 92 % among all the auction transactions . 3An auction will become private automatically when the price on an item reaches or exceeds a certain level . http : //pagesebaycom/help/buy/bidding ovhtml#about
In terms of consumer surplus , Bapna , Jank and Shmueli[8 ] have indicated that the median surplus level per eBay auctions is $3.61 with at least 18.3 % surplus ratio . Their work is based on a sample of 4514 eBay auctions . Brynjolfsson , Hu and Smith[9 ] analyzed the consumer surplus in the digital economy . Their results suggest that increased product variety made available through electronic markets have created significantly larger sources of consumer surplus gains . Ely and Hossain[10 ] compared sniping for DVDs on eBay to squatting in auctions and showed that sniping leads to a statistically significant increase in average surplus .
For all the related work reviewed , we have found that they only cover either a small group of goods or a limited set of item types . This has limited the scope of their analysis and results . 1.3 Data Source
The dataset analyzed comes from two sources : eBay Sojourner logs and eBay Data Warehouse . Sojourner is a live feed logging system which tracing the progress of each user session ’s page view activities . Given the amount of data , all analysis including this data source are limited to a 25 % sampling rate . This feed is used to determine particulars about the user behaviour in the site , for instance , details about a user ’s search or bidding activity . eBay ’s Data Warehouse is an enormous database , which stores all information about items and users including cumulative metrics of long term user activity . Our analysis includes a 25 % sampling rate of all auctions that ended from July 1st , 2007 to July 7th , 2007 in the US site4 across all 34 top level categories . This amounts to a total of 855420 auctions . For all statistical results reported we adopt medians instead of averages in order to prevent sparse outliers . The data we employ can be trusted authoritatively . 1.4 Structure
The rest of the paper is structured as follows . In the next four sections we dive into the topics of consumer surplus , sniping , other bidding features and bidding strategy . In Section 2 , we depict the notion of consumer surplus in a second price auction , present a surplus ratio evaluation system , and investigate the determinants of surplus ratio by item category . In Section 3 , we explore and discuss the phenomenon , cause , classification and strength of sniping thoroughly . In addition , we analyze the relation between surplus ratio and sniping . In Section 5 , we render a detailed analysis of different bidding strategies and how they lead to distinct final values even in the presence of the same item . This result questions the ability of predicting a sale price for an auction and the validity of the revenue equivalence theorem . In the last section , we introduce a new auction format as a supplement to the existing formats .
2 . CONSUMER SURPLUS
Consumer surplus is a traditional economic notion defined as the difference between the price a consumer is willing to pay for a good or service and the actual selling price . A positive consumer surplus represents an imbalance between supply and demand for any given market . In the case of auctions , a secondary cause of consumer surplus are inefficient formats .
4http://wwwebaycom
926WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China In contrast with a first price auctions , in which the winner must pay his own highest bidding price , the winner of a second price auction does not necessarily pay the amount of his or her maximum bid , therefore , creating a source of consumer surplus in auctions . Typically , consumer surplus in a second price auction can be simply considered as the excess of the highest bid price over the final value . eBay provides a proxy bid system , which turns the English format into a second price auction format as well . In the proxy system , a bidder is supposed to place the highest amount that he or she is willing to pay , and the proxy bid system automatically raises the bid on the user ’s behalf , using only as much of the bid as is necessary to maintain the top position .
On eBay , the final value paid by the highest bidder is :
P = min{Vs + I(Vs ) , Vf} ,
( 1 ) where P , Vf , Vs represent the final value , first and second highest bid amount respectively , and I is increment in conformity with the final price bracket5 . Vs + I > Vf if and only if Tf < Ts and Vf − Vs < I , where Tx is the bidding time of bid x . A buyer may win an item for less than his or her maximum bid if Vs + I < Vf .
In order to protect the winning bidder , the actual value of Vf is kept confidential from other users including the seller . As a result , other researchers find challenging to calculate the accurate consumer surplus of eBay auctions . Bapna , Jank and Shmueli developed an automatic sniping agent for users to bid[8 ] so that they were able to know what the highest bidding price of the items won was . However , their data set is skewed toward more sophisticated users , most of which attempt to snipe deliberately . As it’ll be shown in Section 3 , items won via sniping have a median consumer surplus ratio twice as high as that of overall items . In addition , only 20.2 % of the total auction items on eBay are won via late bidding . 2.1 Surplus Ratio Evaluation Model
Given the wide range of item prices on eBay , using the absolute consumer surplus value is not enough to render an accurate picture of eBay ’s consumer surplus . We define the Consumer Surplus Ratio ( CSR ) as the ratio of the surplus amount over the final value . Giray , Hasker and Sickles introduced a Median based CSR in order to derive an estimate for the ratio ’s lower bound.[11 ]
Median∀i
VHi − VFi
VHi
,
( 2 ) where VHi , VFi are the highest bid and the final value of any item i . In accordance with this rough CSR lower bound , an upper bound can be defined as :
Median∀i
VHi − VFi
VFi
.
( 3 )
The problem with these two metrics is the existence of items may end at an extremely low price with only one bid throughout the whole auction duration , due to the lack of users’ demand or excess supply at any given time . Based on the fact that the number of bids on an item is a powerful factor of
5http://pagesebaycom/help/buy/bid increments html
( cid:181 )
( cid:181 )
( cid:182 )
( cid:182 )
( cid:181 ) confidence on the final value , we propose a refined criterion for CSR :
Median∀i
( VHi − VFi ) · ( Ni + Nm )
VFi · Ni + VHi · Nm
,
( 4 )
( cid:182 ) where Ni is the number of bids of item i and Nm is the median number of bids across all items in our dataset6 . The refined equation takes number of bids into account and present a more reasonable evaluation of the consumer surplus ratio , we use this standard criterion to gage the surplus ratio in the following context .
Equation ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are called Surplus Ratio Evalu ation Model . 2.2 Surplus Ratio Factors
Consider iPhones as an example . Fashionable and prevalent as they are , CSR is minuscule , 159 % This can be easily explained given that its market price is open and the supply is stable to most buyers in a short period of time . One is hardly willing to bid over the market price only to win that auction . The wiser approach is to bid slightly lower than the market price , and just transfer to another identical product if outbid . By contrast , Pre 1940 photographic image collectibles get over 50 % median CPR . Our analysis suggests that the surplus ratio is generally impacted by the nature of the market and the ability to find a replacement . Rareness itself makes the valuation process difficult , therefore bidder valuation vary widely leading to high surplus ratios . In addition , attractiveness only corresponds with number of bids and bidders . Thus , it is not the popularity but the rarity that matters when determining the cause for surplus ratio . We zoom out from items to categories , which , for the most part , represent a classification of homogeneous items . Our results in Figure 1 show that those categories with scarce identical replacement have a higher surplus ratio than those of commodity items .
Given that surplus ratio differs a lot even within one single top level category , we select the category “ Music ” , which has the largest variance , as an instance and take a deeper insight into its subcategories . Analogous to the previous result , Figure 2 suggests that the subcategory “ Cassettes ” , which has the highest Median CSR also contains the most rare items . Since cassettes are no longer the popular container for music , we can scarcely find them in the marketplace ; consequently , people ’s valuation have a higher variance .
3 . SNIPING 3.1 Concept Definition
Sniping is defined as the process of watching a timed online auction , placing a winning bid at the last possible moment , usually seconds before the End of Auction ( EoA ) , and giving the other bidders no time to react . In order to crystallize the ambiguity of the concept , we should indicate that , sniping is not only a late bid ( within the last T seconds before the EoA ) , but a deliberate bid as well . Those who bid through the process of search sorted by time endingsoonest , and bid on an item during the last few seconds are not deemed as snipers . Neither are those incremental bidders who happen to bid during the last few seconds , because they are not deliberately . A late bid is not regarded
6The median number of bids is 2 among all the items .
927WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Figure 2 : Box Plot for Category Music as a sniping bid unless it is intentional and there is no previous bid from that bidder . In fact , snipers never expose themselves until the last fatal strike . 3.2 Screen Sniping and Automatic Sniping
We divide sniping into two parts by user behaviors , screen sniping and automatic sniping . Screen sniping , aka manual sniping , is the traditional way of sniping . Buyers are squatting in front of the screen , judging upon other competitors’ behaviors , waiting until last seconds , clicking the mouse nervously so as to beat other potential buyers at the last moment . Exciting as it is , buyers are not always able to perform such strategy . It is impractical , for most snipers , to stay up till 3 am only to wait for the last second , even in the case of a very attractive auction . As a result , the use of automatic sniping agents have prevailed . One may either use sniping software installed locally or allow a sniping service to snipe on the user ’s behalf . By means of automatic sniping , the potential buyer only needs to set up the estimated price several hours or days before the EoA , and automatic sniping tools will bid few seconds before the EoA . Snipping has important implications on user behavior up to the point of changing the explicit format of the snipped auction . A snipe bid can be deemed to be a sealed bid to a certain extent , as the bidding time and price remains concealed until the EoA . For situations where sealed bids ( or snipe bids ) coexist with open bids in the same auction , sniping has an advantage as open bidders found their valuation upon imperfect information . 3.3 Sniping Estimation Model
As our statistics show , automatic sniping , especially sniping services , are most likely to bid during the last 5 to 10 seconds before the EoA . The goal has two points :
• Avoid bid rejections due to network delays , and to allow for retries in the case of a network transmission error .
• Giving other potential bidders no time to react .
From our data set , we can precisely distinguish whether a snipe bid was placed via a sniping service by checking its IP address against our sniping services list . However , bid from
Figure 1 : Box Plot for Meta categories . The box represents values from 25th percentile to 75th percentile . The line and square in the box means median and average respectively . eBay MotorsMusicStampsEntertainment MemorabiliaSpecialty ServicesCollectiblesSports Mem , Cards & Fan ShopAntiquesBooksPottery & GlassArtJewelry & WatchesDolls & BearsToys & HobbiesBusiness & IndustrialEverything ElseAllReal EstateDVDs & MoviesClothing , Shoes & AccessoriesCraftsMusical InstrumentsCoins & Paper MoneySporting GoodsHome & GardenComputers & NetworkingCameras & PhotoTravelBabyHealth & BeautyTicketsVideo GamesConsumer Electronics0%20%40%60%80%100%Surplus RatioCassettesRecordsOther formatsCDsWholesale LotsAccessories0%50%100%150%200%Surplus RatioCategory928WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China sniping software is hard to distinguish . In order to estimate the total sniping percentage including both screen and automatic , we take a detailed analysis on the bid arrivals .
Figure 3 : Bid Arrival Strength in the Last 10 Minutes . The peak occurs at exact 5 seconds before the EoA .
Figure 3 illustrates the arrival strength in the last 10 minutes before the EoA on eBay US site . The arrival strength is in the form of a slowly attenuated trend except the last minute , which confirms the strong relationship between sniping and bid arrival time . The rest of the curve follows a stable long tail that lasts until the the start of auction , which can be considered as infinite . The dramatic burst within last minute before the EoA shows the great enthusiasm from those snipers . If we define B(t ) as the bid arrival strength on time t,7 then we have :
B(t ) = Bs(t ) + Bn(t ) where Bs(t ) is the sniping bid arrival strength and Bn(t ) is the non sniping normal bid arrival strength . As the definition of sniping in Section 3.1 , we also have :
( cid:189 )
Bs(t )
0 ( t 60 ) = 0 ( t > 60 )
In order to estimate the proportion of Bs in B , we calculate Bn instead .
Most of the normal users look for their interests via “ eBay search ” . Instead of sniping , those normal bidders make their bids the right time they find their interested items . Currently eBay provides different sort methods such as “ ordered by time ” and “ ordered by price ” . Statistically the latter one should have a randomly uniform distribution on time . However , the former one is significant to bid time distribution . Our statistics show that 70 % of the total search events are ordered by ending soonest , which is the default sort method among all kinds of sorts.8 We know that when a search result page is presented , those items on the top of the page will attract more attention than those on the middle and bottom . So if we use ordered by ending soonest to make
7Time here is reverse to the normal , it is the exact relative time before the EoA . 8Since March 2008 , Best Match becomes the default sort in search . a search , the most attractive items are those to be end in a time interval from time 0 to t , which will cause a higher probability of items in that slot to be bid on . In addition , t is bigger when less items returned in search result page , and vice versa . Assume the Probability Density Function ( PDF ) of slot length is l(t ) ( t > 0 ) , then the bidding influence intensity distribution of ending soonest search fe(t ) is :
∞ fe(t ) = l(t)dt
( t > 0 )
( 5 ) t
Regarding that l(t ) is massive distributed , it can be considered as Gaussian Normal distribution : N ( µ , ν2 ) ( t > 0 ) , and if Φµ,ν2 ( t ) is the corresponding Cumulative Distribution Function ( CDF ) of l(t ) . then we have : fe(t ) = 1 − Φµ,ν2 ( t )
Assume ordered by ending soonest search has an influence Ie among all the searching methods , then Ie · fe(t ) is the bidding influence function on different time t . Also , if Ip is the influence intensity , fp(t ) is the bidding influence intensity distribution of ordered by price search . Then Ip · fp(t ) represents the bidding influence function of ordered by price search . Since fp(t ) is independent of time , fp can be regarded as uniformly distributed . Given that 93 % of the search operations are via ending soonest and price lowest , total non sniping bidding influence In equals to Ie + Ip approximately .
Besides , once a normal bidder is informed that he or she has been outbid , the bidder will then consider of whether to rebid for that item based on his or her estimation , and iteratively . If the influence ratio on time t is σ(t ) , then we have :
In(t − ∆t ) = σ(t)In(t ) From Equation ( 5 ) we know that σ(t ) > 1 .
( 6 )
Considering of Figure 3 , if there is no deliberate sniping , the bid arrival strength curve ought to be smoothed throughout the whole auction duration . Therefore , we can consider In(t ) to be continuous and differentiable . Solve Equation ( 6 ) , we have :
In(t ) = et−
σ(t)dt
( 7 )
( 8 )
Assuming that In(t ) = Ie(t ) + Ip(t ) , then we have :
σ(t ) = 1 +
Ie In
Φ(t)l(t )
Considering that In ∝ Bn , and σ(t ) > 1 , then we know that Bn applies to negative exponential like distribution .
Figure 4 shows the curve fitting for Bn . Then we can give a prediction of the continuous and differential curve in last minute , Bnp , and figure out the percentage that sniping contributes to the whole bids : ts
Ps =
0
( B(t ) − Bnp(t))dt ts
B(t)dt
0 ts is the defined sniping boundary time 60 seconds . Finally we obtain that 61.4 % of the events in last minute tend sniping , including both manual and automatic .
0100200300400500600010002000300040005000600070008000Bid Arrival CountSeconds before the EOA Number of Bids929WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China we regard buyers with higher feedback as experts and lower feedback as amateurs , Figure 3.5 suggests that experts are more likely to snipe , especially to employ sniping service . 3.6 Surplus Ratio
When considering the surplus ratio in terms of sniping , we find that about 81.5 % of the entire items have consumer surplus , but 88.8 % of the late bidding items have consumer surplus . Among the whole items , the median surplus ratio is 14.91 % , in which sniping contributes enormously . However the two sniping modes are extremely distinct . The median surplus ratio of screen sniping 18.36 % , slightly higher than that of overall bids , but the surplus ratio of sniping services is 3510 %
For each meta category , we calculate its late bidding rate and sniping services bidding rate among the total bids , and we illustrate the results in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Late Bidding Rate ( LBR ) and Sniping Services Bidding Rate ( SSBR ) per Meta category
Meta category eBay Motors Stamps Antiques Art Business & Industrial Entertainment Memorabilia Computers & Networking Collectibles Cameras & Photo Coins & Paper Money Sports Mem , Cards & Fan Shop Music Dolls & Bears Consumer Electronics Pottery & Glass Toys & Hobbies Jewelry & Watches All Musical Instruments Books Video Games Cell Phones & PDAs Tickets Home & Garden Clothing , Shoes & Accessories Crafts Sporting Goods Everything Else Travel DVDs & Movies Health & Beauty Baby Real Estate Gift Certificates
LBR
SSBR 79.60 % 21.72 % 1.64 % 11.59 % 1.33 % 10.90 % 1.32 % 10.70 % 10.65 % 1.69 % 1.07 % 10.29 % 0.94 % 10.05 % 1.13 % 9.99 % 0.78 % 9.46 % 9.20 % 0.64 % 0.83 % 9.05 % 1.04 % 8.97 % 0.51 % 8.83 % 0.44 % 8.70 % 8.66 % 0.88 % 0.41 % 8.58 % 0.76 % 8.48 % 0.67 % 8.40 % 8.27 % 0.55 % 0.91 % 8.16 % 0.36 % 7.62 % 0.18 % 7.58 % 0.21 % 7.54 % 7.50 % 0.48 % 0.49 % 7.40 % 0.40 % 7.20 % 0.40 % 6.97 % 0.28 % 6.64 % 6.47 % 0.68 % 0.35 % 6.26 % 0.26 % 6.01 % 0.81 % 6.01 % 0.21 % 5.10 % 4.66 % 0.28 %
However , stable and accurate as sniping services are , they mostly charge for additional sniping fees . So besides the following reasons , buyers adopt sniping services only if they are extremely anxious to win that item . The fact is that once one misses the item , it is really hard to find a repetition , which reflects the rarity of that type of items . In addition ,
Figure 4 : Bid Arrival Strength in Last 10 Minutes before the EoA .
3.4 Winning Rate
Late bidding , aka last minute bidding , has a higher winning rate than early bidding , because the sniper yields other competitors less time to respond . The winning rate of the whole bids is 21.79 % , namely five bids lead to one winning bid approximately . As a contrast , late bidding winning rate is 5171 % Screen sniping ’s winning rate is 66.73 % , which is slightly higher than sniping services’ 5787 % The reason is that sniping services’ actual bidding time is more likely to be several hours or days before the EoA , which is earlier than screen sniping . Generally , winning rate increases while the bidding time approaches the EoA . 3.5 Experts and Amateurs
Figure 5 : Bidders’ median feedback grouped by bidding time .
We have also accomplished a detailed statistics on the snipers , and find that there ’s obvious distinct on bidders’ feedback between sniping and non sniping . Although it has been indicated by other researchers[6 ] , we present this analysis quantitatively . Figure 3.5 has illustrated that the median feedback of all buyers at bidding time is 60 , that of late bidding is 131 , and that of sniping services bidders is 407 . If
0100200300400500600010002000300040005000600070008000 Number of BidsSeconds before the EOABid Arrival Strength4071851305560Sniping Services Screen SnipingLate BiddingNon snipingTotal Bidders' Median FeedbackGroup by Bidding Time930WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China we find that the order of Table 1 is exactly analogous with that of Figure 1 , therefore we consider that it is the rarity that leads to high surplus ratio , and rarity causes high sniping services rate , which accelerates surplus ratio as well . Given that most of the time buyers render the estimated value to sniping services several hours or days before the EoA , when they know nothing about the price trend of that item , nevertheless , it deserves to pay the estimated value plus sniping fees for that item to the sniper . Consider that high surplus ratio may not reflect the real value of those rare items because of sniping , especially sniping service , as a result , we come up with a new heuristic auction model in order to prevent the aberrant high surplus ratio .
4 . OTHER FEATURES OF BIDDING
In order to present a detailed analysis on auction theory , we depict some other interesting features that we have discovered . 4.1 Trace of Bid Source
Buyers make bids via various processes . Some buyers like to do a keyword search , looking for an interesting item among the results , reviewing the bid history and seller ’s feedback , making a bid at last . Some buyers like to use yahoo or google search at first , comparing items in different sites and bid on eBay at last . Others would like to save the item in the bookmark of browser or “ my eBay ” , and bid them several minutes before the EOA . In order to find the percentage of the bid sources , we trace each bid in Sojourner and group them by bidding time . We can find from Figure 6 that about 50 % of bids are via “ eBay search ” , however when the time approaches the EOA , less bidders use “ eBay search ” . Instead , bids from bookmark and sniping services increasing intensely in the last minute . seem to be more attractive event though the total payments are much higher .
Figure 7 : Final value and total payment on shipping fee . ( Total Payment = Final Value + Shipping Fee )
4.3 Seller ’s Feedback Score
Seller ’s feedback score is another important factor that influences buyer ’s judgement . The fact that buyers trust power sellers9 more than normal sellers can be recognized from Figure 8 , which shows that final value increases with the growing of seller ’s feedback score .
Figure 6 : Percentage of different bid sources .
4.2 Shipping Fee
In order to find out the shipping fee influence on final value and buyers’ total payment , we select all the “ 8GB Apple iPhone ” items sold on eBay US site since June 29 to August 31 .
Figure 7 shows that when shipping fee is about $5.00 , final value is at the lowest , and total payment gradually increases according to the rising of shipping fee . Free shipping items
Figure 8 : Prices of sellers’ feedback score .
5 . BIDDING STRATEGY
From Section 3.5 , we have illustrated the distinct bidding behaviors among various bidders . Generally , more experienced bidders are more likely to place their bids during the last minute than less experienced bidders . In a second price online auction , for the sake of simplicity , we divide bidders into three types according to their distinct bidding strategies : na¨ıve , frank and sophisticated . Naive bidders do incremental bidding , considering the game as a traditional live
9http://pagesebaycom/help/sell/ sell powersellers.html
Last 30 secLast 30 60 secLast 1 10 minLast 10 60 minLast 1 24 hrLast 1 2 daysremains000204060810PercentageTime Intervals eBay search my eBay Bookmark Not Sure Sniping servers Other Sites ( Yahoo! , Webmail , google)05101520253035600620640660680700720740Price ( $)Shipping Fee ( S ) Total Payment Final Value10100100010000660680700720Price ( $)Sellers' Feedback Score Median Final Value Median Total Payment931WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Table 2 : Matrix of Winner . ( H in column is willing to pay higher than L in the row . N , F and S means Na¨ıve , Frank and Sophisticated bidder . )
HHHHHH
L
LN
LF
LS
HN HN LS HF HF HF HS HS HS
HN HF HS auction . They monitor the auction and manually bid just one increment over current price . Frank bidders obey eBay ’s guidelines , entering the maximum price they are willing to pay and leaving everything to the proxy bidding mechanism . Sophisticated bidders only snipe .
Imaging an auction with only two participants . We present a matrix to show the results on different situations . From Table 5 we can figure out that when a na¨ıve bidder who has a higher willing to pay price competes with a sophisticated bidder , the winner is the sophisticated one , because the sophisticated one uses sniping and that na¨ıve bidder will have no time to make an incremental rebid even if his or her willing to pay price is much higher , and the final value could be significantly lower . But if that sophisticated bidder follows eBay ’s guideline , behaving as a frank bidder , he or she will lose at all , because the na¨ıve bidder has enough time to outbid him or her . The problem becomes much more complicated when multiple bidders are involved .
We can draw the conclusion for various bidding strategies among na¨ıve , frank and sophisticated bidders . Frank bidders are more politic than na¨ıve bidders because10 :
• Frank bidder saves time on bidding activities . • Frank bidder will win definitely if his or her bid is the highest .
• Frank bidder is a good strategy in response to those smug lowball bidders .
And sophisticated bidders are more sagacious than frank bidders since :
• sniping can avoid an emotional bidding war which drives up the final value irrationally .
• sniping can avoid showing up the estimation earlier . • sniping can avoid the max amount being probed . • sniping is a good strategy in response to incremental bidding .
Then one may consider that sniping is the best bidding strategy for buyers to minimize the cost . But if all bidders were snipers , then the auction format would transform into a sealed bid auction11 , which runs against the original design of eBay ’s auction format .
10http://wwwmoyenorg/snipe/ 11http://wwwreviewscom/hottopic/hottopic_essay_ 05.cfm
6 . DECLINING PRICE AUCTION MODEL Previously we discussed how the main goal of auctions is to determine the real value of a commodity via incremental bids . Traditionally , as a pricing mechanism , live auctions are largely employed for antiques , paintings , collectibles etc . , which are comparatively hard for sellers to determine a fixed price . The fundamental result in traditional auction is Revenue Equivalence Theorem , addressed by Vickrey[12 ] , which states that under certain conditions , various auction formats yield the same expected revenue to the seller . The Internet facilitates the transactions between sellers and buyers , which leads to online auctions for various types of goods . Using a field experiment technique , Lucking Reiley compared revenue outcomes between first price sealed bid and Dutch auctions , and between second price sealed bid and English auctions[13 ] . His results indicate that Dutch auctions provide a higher rate of revenue compared to first price auctions , which are conflicting results with that from laboratory experiments and the theory . His explanation is that a Dutch auction format generates more participation than the first price auction format in a real market , as well as bidders’ psychological effect from a real Dutch clock . We have shown that due to the effect of fixed end time and diverse bidding behaviors , revenue of online auctions differ from time to time . A noticeable deviation from real market value can be found in sniping and scarce items . If somehow the true value cannot be reflected via an auction format , we have to alternate among various formats . The results so far suggest that different auction format are more efficient depending on the type of item being sold .
In Section 2 , we have introduced Surplus Ratio to measure how much higher the highest bidder is willing to pay over the final value . Rareness lead to high surplus ratio due to the uncertainty on its real price . In order to determine the price more precisely , we propose a declining price auction model for those popular but rare items . Usually , all the participants should be on site when a Dutch Auction begins . We modify the traditional Dutch Auction format so is suitable for online activity .
• If a seller selects to list an item with declining price auction , he or she should set a starting price , a reserved price , starting time and auction duration . The starting should be the seller ’s expected highest price a potential buyer will be willing to pay . It may be equal or higher than the BIN ( Buy It Now ) price of similar items . 12 • Once the auction begins , the current price decreases from the seller ’s starting price to the reserved price within throughout the auction duration by means of an optimal curve .
• When a buyer finds this item , he or she is able to bid the current price from the buyers perspective this is a BIN operation , or bid an amount lower than current price .
• All the bidding information is public to everyone , and the current highest bid price is equal to the second highest amount plus an increment .
• Once the current price drop to an amount equal or lower than the current highest bid , that bidder wins the item , at this point the auction ends .
12http://pagesebaycom/help/buy/how buy binhtml
932WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China This new auction model is a combination of Dutch , public , second price format . The distinctions between Declining Price Auction format and existing formats are :
• Declining Price Auction format employs a descending price while the existing format adopts ascending price . • BIN price of Declining Price Auction format is dropping as the auction happens while that of the existing format is fixed .
Within this auction model , buyers have no incentive to snipe . Each bidder who is interested in that auction should offer the maximum amount that he or she is will to pay for that item . In order to raise the final value , we can adopt decreasing curve function in the format y = A − B·eCx , which has a low price drop rate beginning of the auction compared to a high price drop rate when time approaches the EoA .
Declining Price Auction also has a benefit on speeding up the auction duration . When the price reaches someone ’s valuation , the auction ends immediately , while in the existing English auction the highest bidder has to wait until the predefined fixed end time .
7 . CONCLUSION
We have studied consumer surplus , sniping and other bidding features , and we have illustrated the relationships among sniping rate , consumer surplus ratio and rareness of items . We have demonstrated that distinct bidding behaviors lead to completely different final values . As a result , we propose a declining price auction format which aims to drive the auction final price to a more efficient allocation .
8 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by eBay Inc . Any opinions , findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the sponsors . We would also like to thank Mark Boyd for his insights and feedback throughout this work .
9 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Alvin E . Roth and Axel Ockenfels . Last Minute Bidding and the Rules for Ending Second Price Auctions : Evidence from eBay and Amazon Auctions on the Internet . The American Economic Review , 92(4):1093–1103 , September 2002 .
[ 2 ] Axel Ockenfelsa and Alvin E . Roth . Late and multiple bidding in second price internet auctions : Theory and evidence concerning different rules for ending an auction . Games and Economic Behavior , 55(2):297–320 , May 2006 .
[ 3 ] Wenli Wang , Zoltan Hidvegi , and Andrew B .
Whinston . Shill Proof Fee ( SPF ) Schedule : the Sunscreen against Seller Self Collusion in Online English Auctions . October 2004 . http : //wwwwenlinet/Application/Wenli Shillpdf
[ 4 ] Salvatore Barbaro and Bernd Bracht . Shilling ,
Squeezing , Sniping : Explaining late bidding in online second price auctions . January 2006 . http://www . staffuni mainzde/barbaro/BarbaroBrachtpdf [ 5 ] Sean Gray and David Reiley . Measuring the Benefits to Sniping on eBay : Evidence from a Field Experiment . April 2007 . http://wwwuarizonaedu/ ~dreiley/papers/Snipingpdf
[ 6 ] Ronald T . Wilcox . Experts and Amateurs : The Role of Experience in Internet Auctions . Marketing Letters , 11(4):363–374 , November 2000 .
[ 7 ] Axel Ockenfels and Alvin E . Roth . The Timing of Bids in Internet Auctions : Market Design , Bidder Behavior , and Artificial Agents . Artificial Intelligence Magazine , 23(3):79–87 , 2002 .
[ 8 ] Ravi Bapna , Wolfgang Jank , and Galit Shmueli .
Consumer Surplus in Online Auctions . July 2006 . http://wwwsmithumdedu/faculty/wjank/ consumerSurplusOnlineAuctions ISRpdf
[ 9 ] Erik Brynjolfsson , Yu ( Jeffrey ) Hu , and Michael D . Smith . Consumer Surplus in the Digital Economy : Estimating the Value of Increased Product Variety at Online Booksellers . Management Science , 49(11):1580–1596 , November 2003 .
[ 10 ] Jeffrey C . Ely and Tanjim Hossain . Sniping and
Squatting in Auction Markets . July 2006 . http://ihomeusthk/~tanjim/squatpdf
[ 11 ] Tugba Giray , Kevin Hasker , and Robin Sickles .
Estimating Consumer Surplus in eBay Computer Monitor Auctions . November 2006 . http://wwwbilkentedutr/~hasker/Research/ Giray Hasker Sickles CS eBay 06 02 23pdf
[ 12 ] William Vickrey . Counterspeculation , Auctions , and
Competitive Sealed Tenders . The Journal of Finance , 16(1):8–37 , March 1961 .
[ 13 ] David Lucking Reiley . Using Field Experiments to
Test Equivalence Between Auction Formats : Magic on the Internet . The American Economic Review , 89(5):1063–1080 , December 1999 .
933WWW 2008 / Alternate Track : Industrial Practice and ExperienceApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
