Information Retrieval and Knowledge Discovery on the
Semantic Web of Traditional Chinese Medicine
Zhaohui Wu
College of Computer Science ,
Zhejiang University ,
Hangzhou , 310027 , China wzh@zjueducn
Tong Yu
Huajun Chen
College of Computer Science ,
College of Computer Science ,
Zhejiang University ,
Hangzhou , 310027 , China ytcs@zjueducn
Zhejiang University ,
Hangzhou , 310027 , China huajunsir@zjueducn
ABSTRACT We conduct the first systematical adoption of the Semantic Web solution in the integration , management , and utilization of TCM information and knowledge resources . As the results , the largest TCM Semantic Web ontology is engineered as the uniform knowledge representation mechanism ; the ontology based query and search engine is deployed , mapping legacy and heterogeneous relational databases to the Semantic Web layer for query and search across database boundaries ; the first global herb drug interaction network is mapped through semantic integration , and the semantic graph mining methodology is implemented for discovering and interpreting interesting patterns from this network . The platform and underlying methodology are proved effective in TCM related drug usage , discovery , and safety analysis .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : H4m [ Information Systems ] : Miscellaneous
General Terms : Algorithms , Experimentation , Human Factors .
Keywords : Semantic Web , Information Retrieval , Knowledge discovery .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The health care and life sciences communities have already taken efforts in the adoption of Semantic Web technologies , including ontology engineering , semantic integration , information retrieval , and knowledge discovery . However , these successful projects focus exclusively on orthodoxy medicine , and never on Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) domain . Indeed , despite its wide adoption in Chinese communities , TCM has rarely been the application domain of computational analysis in previous academic works . Our joint group of Zhejiang University and China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences ( CACMS ) took the first systematic approach of Semantic Web for TCM Informatics , aiming at the computerization and integration of TCM information and knowledge to provide intelligent Web resources for clinical decision making , drug discovery , and education . The resulting Semantic Web platform deployed in CACMS , integrates over 70 legacy relational databases into a coherent semantic view , providing various Web based knowledge and information services for TCM practitioners from CACMS ’s 17 affiliated institutions in China [ 1 ] .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
A set of semantic based tools and systems are developed and deployed to facilitate TCM practitioners in achieving collective intelligence . The Unified TCM Language System ( UTCMLS ) is the largest TCM Semantic Web ontology including 5,000 concepts and 20,000 instances , serving as a common knowledge representation scheme to improve the quality of semantic search and query , and to infer semantic suggestions such as synonyms and associated concepts . We have also deployed at CACMS the ontology based query and search engine ( Figure 1 ) , which maps legacy relational databases to the Semantic Web layer for query and search across database boundaries . A new methodology named semantic graph mining is proposed , which uses the semantic graph model to integrate graph mining and ontology reasoning for better analyzing biomedical complex networks . The methodology is implemented in the Spora system ( Figure 2 ) , which creates knowledge discovery experiments through the orchestration of semantic graph mining services . As the experimental result , the first global herb drug interaction network is mapped through semantic integration of legacy relational databases in Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) domain , and Spora system is applied on this network to discern interesting patterns such as frequent sub graphs ( Figure 3 ) and community structures ( Figure 4 ) . In the resulting network ( Figure 4 ) , most nodes ( 99.3 % ) participate in the largest connected components ; a small proportion of herbs emerge as hubs through very active connectivity , and they are also at the centrality of the network ( based on pair wise node distance calculation ) and serve to connect local drug communities ; and there is also a big drug community that consists many biggest hubs in the network , revealing that drug hubs tend to cluster together in TCM domain .
TCM domain experts are interested in these machinelearned patterns rendered as semantic graphs , and realized with amaze that all herbs are connected through decentralized orchestration of formulae in their hands . They evaluate the platform ’s major technical features as original and productive in TCM drug usage , discovery , and safety analysis , and evaluate the resulting visualized patterns as reflecting TCM practice and potentially leading to a deeper understanding of TCM underlying mechanisms .
The proposed poster contains two components : one will focus on the semantic graph mining methodology , tools , and systems with their Web based interfaces ( Figure 1,2 ) ; the other will focus on the description and medical interpretation of computational analysis and knowledge discovery results , including statistical characteristics , frequent subgraphs , and community structures of TCM networks .
1085WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China Figure 1 : The DartGrid semantic query and search portal supports interactive discovery of TCM information and knowledge across database boundaries , through the paradigms of query , search , and navigation based on shared domain ontology .
Figure 2 : The Spora system performs semantic graph mining on the Semantic Web , models a discovery experiment as a tree of operators with customizable properties , and visualizes data mining results through interactive tables , charts , and graphs .
Figure 3 : The representation of frequently occuring patterns as semantic graphs , can help users to understand and interpret these patterns , and make it easier to index , search , merge , and/or compare related patterns . The patterns are obtained by discovering frequently occuring subgraphs from a set of semantic graphs extracted from heterogeneous data resources , and visualized as a directed , labeled graph for human interpretation .
Figure 4 : Global network of frequent herb drug interactions , with drugs represented by nodes with size/font proportional to degree , interactions represented by edges,and drug communities represented by distinct colors . This integrated semantic graph is mapped by merging results of semantic searching for herb drug interactions from the TCM Semantic Web portal . A clustering algorithm is applied on the graph to decern local communities .
2 . CONCLUSION
We presented an in use Semantic Web platform supporting large scale database integration , information retrieval , and knowledge discovery for Traditional Chinese Medicine domain . This platform demonstrates the Semantic Web ’s ability to connect data from interrelated domains for interdisciplinary research , and contributes to the preservation and modernization of TCM as intangible cultural heritage .
3 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is funded in part by China 973 subprogram
NO.2003CB316906 , China NSF program NO . NSFC60503018 , China 863 program NO . 2006AA01A123 , China NSF program No.60525202 , and China NSF program No60533040
4 . ADDITIONAL AUTHORS
Xiaohong Jiang , Yi Feng , Yuxin Mao ( Zhejiang University , {jiangxh,fengyi,maoyx}@zjueducn ) , Heng Wang , Jingming Tang , Chunying Zhou ( Zhejiang University , {paulwang,jmtang981,02rjgczcy}@zjueducn )
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] H . J . Chen , Y . M . Wang , H . Wang , Y . X . Mao , J . M .
Tang , C . Y . Zhou , A . N . Yin , and Z . H . Wu . Towards a semantic web of relational databases : A practical semantic toolkit and an in use case from traditional chinese medicine . In ISWC 2006 : Proceedings of the 5th International Semantic Web Conference , pages 750–763 , Berlin / Heidelberg , 2006 . Springer .
1086WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
