Keyword Extraction for Contextual Advertisement
Xiaoyuan Wu eBay Research Labs No.88 KeYuan Rd . Shanghai , China xiaowu@ebay.com
Alvaro Bolivar eBay Research Labs 2145 Hamilton Avenue San Jose , CA 95125 abolivar@ebay.com
ABSTRACT As the largest online marketplace , eBay strives to promote its inventory throughout the Web via different types of online advertisement . Contextually relevant links to eBay assets on third party sites is one example of such advertisement avenues . Keyword extraction is the task at the core of any contextual advertisement system . In this paper , we explore a machine learning approach to this problem . The proposed solution uses linear and logistic regression models learnt from human labeled data , combined with document , text and eBay specific features . In addition , we propose a solution to identify the prevalent category of eBay items in order to solve the problem of keyword ambiguity .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H31 [ Content Analysis and Indexing ] : Abstracting methods General Terms : Algorithms , experimentation Keywords : Keyword extraction , contextual advertisement
1 . INTRODUCTION Ebay , the World's Online Marketplace , enables trade on a local , national and international basis . Given the size of the market and the need to maintain a balance between supply and demand , driving potential buyers to the site is one of eBay ’s most important priorities . Contextual advertising of relevant eBay items ( ads ) is one important strategy to achieve such purpose . In the future , eBay items could be made available everywhere on the Web with an instant purchase option and without the buyer having to visit the eBay site . For example , a user who is browsing an “ iPod ” related web page could find “ iPod ” related items and purchase them directly from that page . In this paper , we will focus on the core technology of any contextual advertisement system , specifically , the keyword extraction algorithm . The more relevant the keywords extracted are , the more accurate the ads provided will be , and in turn , increased click through rate as well as revenue potential . In the first part of our work , we explore a significant set of features which are potentially helpful to determine the importance of keywords . In addition , regression models learnt from previous training data are applied to combine the features into a single keyword score . The basic idea is similar to the method presented in [ 3 ] ; however , in our work , we investigate additional HTML features . We also take advantage of eBay proprietary data , such as query logs , keyword ’s item frequency entropy across categories ,
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . numbers of categories matched by keywords , among others and use them as additional features . In the second part of our work , we aim to resolve the problem of keyword ambiguity ie a keyword may have multiple intents . As a result , even if we extract the right keywords , the ads may not be relevant . A novel method proposed by [ 1 ] intends to classify Web pages and keywords to the same taxonomy , and use the proximity of the ad and page classes in the ranking formula . Unfortunately , we do not have the resource to maintain a large taxonomy of Web pages ; however , we have a hierarchical category tree of items . Therefore , instead of classifying Web pages and keywords , we provide an approach to take advantage of the contextual keywords extracted from the same page to select a proper category to display ads .
2 . KEYWORD RANKING After HTML clean up and tokenization processes , the next step is to rank the resulting keywords and phrases by their relevance score . Experiments with a large set of features were executed . These features can be divided into two groups , features related to the content of the source web page and features related to eBay ’s view of such keywords . The final goal is to model relevance scores obtained from human labeled data through linear and logistic regression models to combine these features and obtain a keyword ranking score . 2.1 Features from Web Page Table 1 lists a set of features related to Web page , which are potentially useful to rank keywords .
Table 1 . Features from Web page
Term frequency ( TF ) Phrase length Title Meta keywords/Meta description Capitalization Term ’s Position H1/H2 Positive/Negative font attributes Internal/External anchor text
2.2 Features from eBay Query Log : A large item based search engine is available on eBay sites . Intuitively , the more times a query is used , the higher probability the query is a good keyword or phrase . Entropy ( Leaf Category ) : eBay maintains a large single parent category tree , which buyers and sellers use to browse and list their items . If the items matched by a term are distributed over many leaf categories , we deem the term as not informative enough . The higher a term ’s leaf level category entropy is , the higher the likelihood of this term to be irrelevant . Entropy ( Root Category ) : We found that only using leaf category entropy to determine a term ’s importance may be deceptive . Important terms ( eg , iPod ) may be very popular in eBay , and they may appear in many leaf categories . As a result , their entropy is very high ; however , those leaf categories may
1195WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China belong to a single root category . Hence , we calculate rootcategory entropy using root category level item counts . Number of Categories : We calculate the number of categories in which a term appears . Similar to the entropy calculation , we obtain the number matching leaf categories and root categories . Number of Items : The number of items matched by a term . 3 . CATEGORY SELECTION The output of the keyword ranking process is a ranked list of keywords for a given web page . However , many keywords are ambiguous . For example , the keyword “ css ” may be extracted from a page describing web page development ; however , the ads displayed on the page might refer to a “ Sony CSS PHA Cybershot Station ” . The problem is that there are several matching categories for the term “ css ” on eBay site , but only a subset refers to the proper context . Therefore , our purpose is to select a proper category for each keyword according to the context of the web page ; in particular , we hope to determine a category for each keyword with the help of other keywords from the same page . For example , if “ css ” is together with other keywords such as “ javascript ” and “ html ” etc , it is more likely that we need to get ads from “ computer ” category , rather than from the “ camera ” category . Inventory information and daily user activities are recorded by the eBay logging system in order to capture supply data ( item counts ) and demand data ( user activities ) for each keyword . By the supply data , we could get a vector of categories in which the keyword i appears , and by the demand data , we also could get a vector of categories in which users click through to view/bid/buy items by querying the keyword i . Hence , by the combination of supply data and demand data , for each keyword , we could obtain a vector of candidate categories . The target is leaf categories , where each category has a value which is calculated by the combination of item counts and buyer activity ( view/bid/buy ) in that category . Given any Web page , the scores for all matching leaf categories are rolled up to root categories , and the top N root categories by voting are selected . For example , the leaf category vectors for “ css ” , “ html ” and “ javascript ” roll up to the root category “ computer ” instead of “ camera ” . The idea here is somewhat similar the most representative leaf category within the top N root categories is selected for each keyword . 4 . EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION 4.1 Experiment Setup The training/testing set is made up of 800 Web pages . This set of pages was randomly selected from a large pool of eBay partner Web sites . The dataset was further divided in six types of Web pages . Table 2 shows the detailed break down . to collaborative
[ 2 ] . Finally , filtering
Table 2 . The distribution of Web pages .
News
Portal & Homepage
Blog Forum
Social Network
Product Review
Total
138
96
279
115
62
96
800 for logistic regression ,
4.2 Features Selection After a bunch of experiments , such as t test for linear regression , z test leave one out method and multicollinearity analysis , we select TF , length , title , number of root categories , Meta keywords , Meta description , query log , root entropy , position and H1 as final features to rank keywords . 4.3 System Performance Comparison The final system is benchmarked against a set of external keyword extraction systems , namely : Yahoo , Inxight , MediaRiver and KEA . Figure 1 , shows that our system ( eBay KES ) outperforms all other systems . 4.4 Performance on Different Types of Pages We analyzed the performance of the system on different page types , the results are presented in Figure 2 . We could conclude that the more content targeted types of pages , the easier to extract keywords . This results call for customizing the keyword extraction system based on the web page type .
Figure 1 . Comparison of Figure 2 . Performance keyword extraction systems . comparison on different types of pages . 5 . CONCLUSIONS The eBay contextual advertisement platform has been created to automatically associate contextually relevant eBay assets to webpages . This study explored a machine learning approach and described in detail the system at features for ranking keywords , as well as category selection to avoid keyword ambiguity . Our experimental result verifies the effectiveness of the keyword extraction system . Because we only annotated page keyword pairs , we could not report the performance of category selection algorithm in this paper and we will consider it as future work .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Broder , M . Fontoura , V . Josifovski and L . Riedel . A Semantic Approach to Contextual Advertising . In SIGIR 2007 , pages 559–566 , Amsterdam , July 2007 .
[ 2 ] P . Resnick , N . Iacovou , M . Suchak , P . Bergstrom and J . Riedl . GroupLens : An open architecture for collaborative filtering of netnews , Proceedings of ACM 1994 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work , 175 186 .
[ 3 ] W . Yih , J . Goodman , and V . R . Carvalho . Finding advertising keywords on Web pages . In WWW’06 , pages 213–222 , New York , NY , 2006 . ACM .
Each page keyword pair was judged by five annotators on a 1 4 scale . Moreover , precision of top N keywords ( P@N ) is used to evaluate the performance .
1196WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
