GSP ExR : GSP Protocol with an Exclusive Right for
Keyword Auctions
, Atsushi Iwasaki , Yasumasa Saito , and Makoto Yokoo
Graduate School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering
∗ Yuko Sakurai
Kyushu University , Fukuoka , 819 0395 Japan {sakurai , saito}@agentiskyushu uacjp
{iwasaki , yokoo}@iskyushu uacjp
ABSTRACT We propose a keyword auction protocol called the Generalized Second Price with an Exclusive Right ( GSP ExR ) . In existing keyword auctions , the number of displayed advertisements is determined in advance . Thus , we consider adjusting the number of advertisements dynamically based on bids . In the GSP ExR , the number of slots can be either 1 or K . When K slots are displayed , the protocol is identical to the GSP . If the value per click of the highest ranked bidder is large enough , then this bidder can exclusively display her advertisement by paying a premium . Thus , this pricing scheme is relatively simple and seller revenue is at least as good as the GSP . Also , in the GSP ExR , the highest ranked bidder has no incentive to change the number of slots by over/under bidding as long as she retains the top position .
Categories and Subject Descriptors : I211 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Distributed Artificial Intelligence
General Terms : Economics , Theory
Keywords : Electronic Commerce , Mechanism design , Keyword auction , Web advertising
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Recently , billions of dollars are spent on keyword auctions run by search engines such as Google and Yahoo! [ 2 , 4 , 5 ] . In current keyword auctions , the number of displayed advertisements is determined in advance . In this paper , we consider adjusting the number of slots dynamically based on the bids . For example , if one bidder has a very high valuation per click compared to other bidders , this bidder is allowed to exclusively display her advertisement as long as she is willing to pay a premium . In this case , we can simultaneously obtain better social surplus as well as better revenue for the seller ( search engine ) . When we apply the GSP protocol which is actually used as a keyword auction protocol , the highest ranked bidder can increase her utility by over bidding to obtain the exclusive right , since she does not need to pay the premium . On the other hand , we can apply the well known VCG protocol , which is guaranteed to satisfy strategy proofness and Pareto efficiency . However , in ∗
Y . Sakurai also works as a JSPS Research Fellow .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . our keyword auction setting , one serious limitation for using the VCG is that seller ’s revenue can be lower than the GSP , which would discourage search engines from introducing the VCG . Also , bidders have difficulty understanding this protocol , since determining the VCG payment is also quite complicated and not intuitive .
Thus , we develop a new auction protocol called the GSP with an Exclusive Right ( GSP ExR ) . The GSP ExR can choose the optimal number of slots , either 1 or K . When K slots are displayed , the protocol is identical to the GSP . If the bid amount of the highest ranked bidder is large enough , then this bidder can exclusively display her advertisement by paying a premium . Therefore , this pricing scheme is relatively simple . Also , the amount of the premium is determined so that the highest ranked bidder has no incentive to change the number of slots by over/under bidding . Our simulation results show that the GSP ExR can improve both social surplus and seller ’s revenue . 1
2 . MODEL
First , we illustrate a keyword auction model as follows . Assume a set of K slots on a specific keyword and a set of bidders N = {1 , 2 , . . . , n} where n ≥ K . In a keyword auction , each bidder submits a value per click on the advertisement for a keyword . We assume the value per click is independent of the rank of the slots . Formally , let vi denote bidder i ’s value per click , which is a private valuation for bidder i .
Search engine ranks the bidders in decreasing order based on the product of each bid and a click through rate ( CTR ) . In advance the auctioneer determines each bidder ’s CTR , which is hidden from bidders . Many previously conducted studies on keyword auctions have assumed a separable CTR [ 1 , 3 , 5 ] . In this paper , we also use this assumption . Let CT Ri(k , j ) denote the probability that bidder i ’s advertisement is clicked on the j th highest slot among k slots . CTR is separable if we can represent it as follows : CT Ri(k , j ) = Ck,jqi . Here , qi is a factor related to the quality of bidder i ’s advertisement , estimated by the auctioneer . Ck,j depends only on position ( k , j ) , while qi is associated with bidder i . Naturally , we assume Ck,j becomes larger when the position j is closer to the top : ∀k , ∀j , Ck,j ≥ Ck,j+1 . The number of slots can be either 1 or K in the GSP ExR . We assume that the following conditions hold : C1,1 > CK,1 and 1Due to space limitation , we omit the simulation results in this paper .
1089WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China PK
C1,1 < j=1 CK,j . Most existing keyword auctions introduce reservation price r , ie , a bidder ’s bid is considered only when qibi ≥ r holds .
We assume that a bidder has a quasi linear utility , which is calculated by the difference between bidder i ’s true value per click and her payment . Furthermore , we define social surplus Sk when allocating k slots : Sk = j=1 Ck,jq(j)b(j ) . Here , we refer q(j)b(j ) to the j th highest product . The optimal number of slots to maximize the obtained social surplus can be determined as follows : k∗
= arg maxk∈{1,K} Sk .
Pk
3 . GSP WITH AN EXCLUSIVE RIGHT
We illustrate our new keyword auction protocol called the GSP ExR . The GSP ExR is defined as follows : • Each bidder submits a value per click of bi . • The auctioneer sorts qibi ( that satisfies qibi ≥ r ) in decreasing order . Then the auctioneer determines the number of displayed slots ( either 1 or K ) by comparing the obtained social surplus .
– If SK ≥ S1 , the optimal number of slots k∗ becomes K and K slots are allocated . To calculate the payments , we apply the GSP payment . In the GSP , bidder i , who is allocated the j th highest slot , will pay a price per click of pi(K , j ) , which is defined as follows : pi(K , j ) = q(j+1)b(j+1 ) qi
.
( 1 )
– If S1 > SK , the optimal number of slots k∗ becomes 1 and the highest ranked bidder has an exclusive right . Payment p(1)(1 , 1 ) is calculated as follows : p(1)(1 , 1 ) =
1
C1,1q(1 )
( CK,1q(2)b(2 )
KX j=2
+
CK,jq(j)b(j) ) .
( 2 )
Theorem 1 . In the GSP ExR , the highest ranked bidder has no incentive to change the number of displayed advertisements from either 1 or K as long as she retains the top position . bidder i ’s advertisement is identical , ie , ∀i , qi = 1 .
Proof . For simplicity , assume that the quality of each
First , assume that when the highest ranked bidder declares a true valuation and the number of displayed slots is K , ie , SK ≥ S1 . Then , we show that the highest bidder cannot increase her utility by over bidding , ie , her utility when she gets the exclusive right ( denoted as u(1)(1 , 1 ) ) is smaller than ( or at most equal to ) the utility when K slots are displayed ( denoted as u(1)(K , 1) ) . u(1)(1 , 1 ) = C1,1(v1 − 1 C1,1 KX
( CK,1b(2 ) +
CK,jb(j) ) )
KX j=2
≤ CK,1v1 +
CK,jb(j ) j=2
−(CK,1b(2 ) +
KX
CK,jb(j) ) ) ( ∵ SK ≥ S1 )
= CK,1(v1 − b(2 ) ) = u(1)(K , 1 ) . j=2
Similarly , we can show that when the highest ranked bidder declares a true valuation and the total number of displayed slots is 1 , then the bidder cannot increase her utility even if she changes from 1 to K slots . As a result , the highest ranked bidder cannot improve her utility by changing the number of displayed slots .
In the GSP ExR , we adjust the payment of the highest ranked bidder so that when S1 = SK , u(1)(1 , 1 ) = u(1)(K , 1 ) holds , ie , she is indifferent whether she gets the exclusive right . On the other hand , in the GSP , the highest ranked bidder can increase her utility by over bidding to obtain the exclusive right , since she does not need to pay the premium . Note that when K slots are displayed , the highest ranked bidder might be able to increase her utility by moving down on the rank of displayed positions . Such a manipulation is possible in the original GSP and the GSP ExR inherits this problem .
Example 1 . Assume 2 slots and 2 bidders , 1 and 2 . Suppose that each bidder has a value per click of v1 = 300 and v2 = 200 . The advertisement quality ’s is identical , ie , q1 = q2 = 1 . A reservation price of r is set to 100 . Suppose that the auctioneer determines Ck,j as follows : C1,1 = 0.5 and ( C2,1 , C2,2 ) = ( 0.4 , 02 ) Assume that bidder i submits her true value vi . We can calculate the social surplus of Sk as follows : S1 = 0.5×300 = 150 and S2 = 04×300+02×200 = 160 . As a result , the optimal number of slots is k∗ = 2 . The top position goes to bidder 1 and she pays 200 per click and gets utility u1(2 , 1 ) = 0.4(300 − 200 ) = 40 .
On the other hand , if bidder 1 submits a bid of 1 , 000 , the total number of displayed slots becomes 1 . Bidder 1 pays ( C2,1 + C2,2)b(2)/C1,1 = ( 0.4 + 02)200/05 = 240 and gets a utility of 0.5(300 − 240 ) = 30 , which is smaller than her original utility 40 . Thus , bidder 1 cannot increase her utility by over bidding to obtain the exclusive right .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
We developed a new keyword auction protocol that dynamically adjust the number of slots , while in existing keyword auction protocols , the number of slots is determined in advance . Our newly developed GSP ExR protocol , a modification of the GSP , simultaneously improves the obtained social surplus and the search engine revenue .
One limitation of the GSP ExR is that the number of slots is limited to 1 or K . Our future works include developing strategy proof keyword auction protocols with simple payment calculation methods , in which the auctioneer can select the number of slots more flexibly .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Cary , A . Das , B . Edelman , I . Giotis , K . Heimerl , A . R .
Karlin , C . Mathieu , and M . Schwarz . Greedy bidding strategies for keyword auctions . In Proc . of ACM EC’07 , pages 262–271 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] B . Edelman , M . Ostrovsky , and M . Schwarz . Internet advertising and the generalized second price auction : Selling billions of dollars worth of keywords . American Economic Review , 97:242–259 , 2007 .
[ 3 ] S . Lahaie and D . M . Pennock . Revenue analysis of a family of ranking rules for keyword auctions . In Proc . of ACM EC’07 , pages 50–56 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] R . Matthew , R . Dominowska ,and R . Robert . Predicting clicks : Estimating the Click Through Rate for New Ads . In Proc . of WWW2007 , pages 521–529 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] H . R . Varian . Position auctions . International Journal of
Industrial Organization , 25(6):1163–1178 , 2007 .
1090WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
