Web Page Sectioning Using Regex›based Template
Rupesh R . Mehta rupeshm@yahoo›inc.com
Yahoo! R&D
Bangalore , India
Amit Madaan Yahoo! R&D Bangalore , India amitm@yahoo›inc.com
ABSTRACT This work aims to provide a novel , site specific web page segmentation and section importance detection algorithm , which leverages structural , content , and visual information . The structural and content information is leveraged via template , a generalized regular expression learnt over set of pages . The template along with visual information results into high sectioning accuracy . The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach . Categories and Subject Descriptors : H33 [ Information Storage , Retrieval ] : Information Extraction General Terms : Algorithms , Design Keywords : Site specific segmentation , Site specific noise elimination , Tree based reg ex 1 . INTRODUCTION
Information Extraction ( IE ) and Information Retrieval ( IR ) over the Web is a challenging problem and is complicated further by the large volumes of data and multitude of content classes . Web pages are structured to include not only main content sections , like product information in a shopping domain , but also sections like navigation panels , copyright policy . Each section carries different importance and hence there is a need to segment a web page into a set of sections and determine their importance .
Majority of the existing approaches mainly consists of an optional page level , rule based web page segmentation step and section ( or DOM node ) importance detection step leveraging site specific information and/or page level spatial and content features . Our approach falls in the same category . However , unlike other approaches , our web page segmentation approach leverages structural information across pages via template , along with page level , rule based information . This leads to robust segmentation quality . Unlike other approaches , our approach helps to detect less important sections local to a cluster of pages ( ie part of a site ) , with high confidence , leveraging template learning . 2 . OUR APPROACH
The proposed approach leverages site level information with the observation that In a particular site , informative contents of web pages are often diverse in their actual content , and/or presentations ( structure ) , whereas noisy conCopyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2008 , April 21(cid:150)25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978›1›60558›085›2/08/04 . tent share common content , link , and presentation styles . Here , text , links and images embedded in tags in a web page is considered as ‘content’ .
Given a website the approach takes k web page samples from the site and learns the template over the DOM structure of those samples . It then learns site specific node , content importance using structural and content features repeating across pages . The approach matches each test page with the learnt template , segment the web page into set of sections , and assigns importance to each section , using template learning , and page level spatial and content features . Template similar to [ 1 ] , is a tree based regular expression learnt over set of structures of pages within a site . Initial template is constructed based on structure of one page and then it is generalized over set of pages by adding set of operators , if the pages are structurally dissimilar . In addition to HTML tags , template generalization part deals with three operators , ’*’ , ’ ?’ , and ’j’ to denote multiplicity ( denotes repetition of similar structure ) , optionality ( denotes part of structure is optional ) , and disjunction ( denote presence of one of the structures ) in the structural data , respectively . In brief , template is a generalized tree based regular expression over structure of pages seen till now . To illustrate , consider a template as ( A)fiB(C)?D(EjF ) , where A , B , C , D , E , and F represents set of DOM nodes and/or sub tree in the structure . This template matches all pages having their HTML structure as ABCDE , AABCDE , ABDE , ABDF , ABCDF , etc . Further details on template can be found at [ 2 ] .
Template helps to captures structural and content repetition across pages which is used to determine section importance . Also , template captures set of structurally similar items under a STAR ( * ) node helping segmentation process . The approach is splitted in two phases as explained below :
2.1 Site Speci.c Learning
This phase involves learning of structural and content rep etition across web pages as described below :
1 . For each site , create and generalize template over k random sample web pages .
2 . During template generalization , compute or update value for each feature , if present , for each leaf template node , based on corresponding structure nodes . Set of features used are page support ( PS ) for each template node , PS for each image source feature , PS for link feature , and PS for each text feature mapping to template node . Here , PS for a feature/node is defined as number of pages containing the feature/node .
1151WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China 3 . After generalizing template over k samples , compute the node support ( ratio of PS of a node to sample size , k ) and features noise confidence ( ratio of PS of a feature to the PS of a node containing the feature ) at each leaf template node . This step helps to capture noise local to cluster of pages .
4 . Store noise confidence of content features at nodes whose node support is greater than some threshold ( say , 20% ) .
2.2 Segmentation and Importance Detection This phase involves segmenting the web page into set of sections and determining their importance , leveraging template and visual information as described below221 Template›based Scoring Match each test page , with the learnt template and get mapping of each template node to corresponding set of structural nodes in a page . Transfer noise confidence score to leaf structure nodes based on the presence of content feature . 222 Web›page Segmentation The segmentation process is described as follow :
1 . Web page often contains list of same items like list of products or list of navigational links , whereas each item is represented by a set of HTML nodes . We treat such list as a section , as all items belonging to the list will have same importance . STAR ( ’*’ ) template node in a template represents such list . Hence , all HTML nodes mapping to a STAR template node are treated as a part of a ‘section’ . Note that , the approach considers uppermost STAR node , if nesting of STAR nodes is found .
2 . In above step , set of sections are obtained by looking at STAR nodes . We assume DOM tree with visual information ( height and width of each DOM node ) is available for the page and hence for the remaining page , following steps are performed in top down fashion , to obtain set of sections . ffl Cond1 Ratio of node ’s area to the web page area is greater than some threshold ( say 15% ) . Area of a node is computed as node height multiplied by node width . ffl Cond2 One of its children has sectioning tag like TA
BLE , DIV and satisfies Cond1 . ffl Cond3 One of its children has section separating tag like HR , FRAMESET .
If node satisfies ( Cond1 AND Cond2 ) , its children are
3 . processed recursively .
4 . If node satisfies Cond3 , Child DOM nodes between two section separators or between first node and first section separator or between last section separator and last node are treated as separate sections .
5 . If none of the conditions satisfies , DOM node is marked as section .
6 . Note that , all contiguous , inline , sibling rich text formatting nodes like B , EM , and I are considered as a section . e g a % e s o N i
0.5
0.45
0.4
0.35
0.3
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
0
0
2
4
6
8
10 Domains
12
14
16
18
Figure 1 : Average fraction of noise per domain
223 Section Importance Detection Once segmentation process is over , each section is assigned importance score as : The noise confidence of each leaf structure node obtained in step ( 2:2:1 ) is aggregated at section level to determine the noise confidence of the section . The aggregation is weighted averaging of all noise confidence of leaf structure nodes based on their size . The section importance score is computed as ( 1 section noise confidence ) . The importance value ranges between 0 to 1 . 3 . EXPERIMENTS
The approach is evaluated against 18 domains by randomly selecting 15 pages for learning and 65 pages for testing . Based on section importance , each section is classified into two categories informative or noisy . If a section importance is less than some threshold ( say , 25% ) , it is classified as noisy , otherwise informative . The evaluation of classified sections is done manually . Three person were presented with set of sections and its category and were asked to verify the sectioning quality and correctness of categorization . According to the evaluation , the approach could detect noisy sections with average of 91 % precision and 82 % recall . Also , it is found out that , the approach could form a section out of similar items ( even with slight structure or visual differences ) , due to its template learning over set of pages . The graph in Figure 1 depicts the domain wise average of ratio of amount of noise detected in a page to the actual web page contents . The technique could detect an average of 20 % of web page content as noise . It is also observed that , given sufficient and structurally slight varying training dataset , the approach was successful in detecting noise local to cluster of pages . 4 . CONCLUSIONS
In this paper , we have solved the web page sectioning problem , leveraging site specific information via template . A novel approach of template based web page segmentation and section importance detection is introduced . Preliminary experiments demonstrate the promise of the approach . The future scope involves further experimentation and incorporation of other features . 5 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] V . Crescenzi , G . Mecca , and P . Merialdo . Roadrunner : Towards automatic data extraction from large web sites . In VLDB ’01 : Proc of 27th Int’l Conf on VLDB .
[ 2 ] V . G . V . Vydiswaran , R . R . Mehta , A . Madaan , and C . Tiwari . Tree based template learning for high precision extraction . 2008 .
1152WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
