Mining Tag Clouds and Emoticons behind Community Feedback
Kavita A . Ganesan eBay Inc .
2145 Hamilton Avenue
San Jose , CA 95125 , USA
+1 408 967 5895 kaganesan@ebay.com
Neel Sundaresan eBay Research Labs 2145 Hamilton Avenue
San Jose , CA 95125 , USA
+1 408 376 8422 nsundaresan@ebay.com
Harshal Deo eBay Inc .
2145 Hamilton Avenue
San Jose , CA 95125,USA
+1 408 967 8725 hdeo@ebay.com
ABSTRACT this paper we describe our mining system which In automatically mines tags from feedback text in an eCommerce scenario . It renders these tags in a visually appealing manner . Further , emoticons are attached to mined tags to add sentiment to the visual aspect . Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Search and Retrieval ] : Clustering , Information filtering , Selection process , Retrieval models General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation , Design Keywords Algorithms , Search , Feedback , Measurement , Precision , Experimentation , Web 2.0 1 . Motivation and Background In a social commerce environment such as eBay community feedback is imperative . Buyers will want to buy from sellers whom they can truly trust and will deliver what is promised . Many times , the only way of knowing this is based on the comments left by other buyers . Superlative phrases like “ AAA+++ ” are as common as “ good packaging ” , or “ no response ” . Although the feedback score is an indication of how good a seller is , buyers would like to know if the seller typically has good customer support , provides fast shipping or good packaging . A prospective buyer may compromise on some needs but not on others . The option of analyzing the reason behind the seller ’s score however poses some challenges especially when the seller has thousands of reviews . Our work focuses on mining tags from a collection of small blocks of text which have opinion and positive or negative feedback attached to them . Our goal is to identify the most distinguishing tags on a per entity ( user/category ) basis from among a collection of entities ( users/categories ) . For visual representation we would like to use the font size and weight for representing density . For visual impact and normalizing across text , we use representative emoticons as proxies . 2 . Implementation and Architecture The emotion mining System starts with a “ request ” for a seller ’s feedback information . This returns the last pre chosen number of feedback text ( positive , negative or neutral ) for the named
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . seller . This then goes to the text pre processor to clean out the text and to build a dictionary of words . The text is then fed into a suffix tree data structure for n gram phrase extraction . Extracted phrases are weighted and the best phrases are retained . Short listed phrases are then mapped corresponding emoticons and finally the feedback summary with varying size of tag clouds [ 2 ] are presented to users . Figure 1 shows a screenshot of our mining system that we call Emosi Sosial . The emoticons attached to the tags give a visual understanding on what the community feels about a seller . The emoticon legend on the left simply makes it easy for users to figure out what each emoticon means .
Figure 1 : A Screenshot of Emosi Sosial . Tag clouds in the middle under the headlines positive , negative and neutral are the summarized feedback in their respective categories . The pop up seen on the far right highlights all comments related to the tag that was clicked on . Note that the larger font sized text are more representative than the smaller ones . 2.1 Weighting and Scoring of Feedback Tags Each extracted tag is weighted using the tf idf ( term frequency– inverse document frequency ) [ 3 ] scheme . The tags that meet the minimum weight threshold will be short listed and eventually displayed . This weight is a statistical measure used to evaluate how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus . For user level mining , the tf for a given phrase P of a seller S is multiplied by the idf of phrase P in the global dataset . The same is done for category level mining . The only difference is that the tf for all sellers within a given category is used instead of tf for a single seller . The tf idf scoring formula used is as follows : TFnormalized = ( TFpsellerk or TFpcategoryk ) / TFmax
IDF=Log2 ( N/ TFpglobal ) TF IDF= TFnormalized * IDF
1181WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China : global term frequency for phrase p
: term frequency of phrase p for a seller k
Where : TFpsellerk TFpcategoryk : term frequency of phrase p in a category k TFpglobal
We normalize the term frequencies so that longer documents are not unfairly given more weight . Once we have the short listed phrases we go on to mapping the phrases with the appropriate emoticon .
2.2 Phrase to Emoticon Mapping Emoticons are a simple and concise way of visually showing user the general emotion behind a feedback tag . Figure 2 depicts the list of emoticons used for mapping and an example of possible mappings . The emoticon dictionary uses different combination of words to map phrases to emoticons . These words are typically in its root form to avoid ambiguity . For a given phrase , the phrase to emoticon mapping is looked up in the emoticon dictionary . Phrases are first converted to their root form using a WordNet library . Phrases like “ slow shipping ” will be changed to “ slow/ship ” . Then a lookup is performed on the different combination of words to find the best mapping .
14,000 feedback words the resulting tags are 90 . The significant reduction in information is the result of presenting common phrases of high significance as a single phrase . The removal of noise and the use of stop words have also contributed to a more readable feedback summary .
Figure 3 : Snapshot of positive feedback in the Jewellery category . Note that in addition to the generic positive comments like “ prompt shipping ” , category specific ones like “ lovely bracelet ” are prominent .
Phrases/Words
Mapping fast,speed /deliver,ship , arrive/ fast,quick no,never/receive,response , reply nice,beautiful,pretty,gorgeous,cute
Figure 2 : Set of emoticons used to depict emotions behind community feedback . The descriptions are not specific to the tags . A broad range of tags could map to one emoticon . Tags like “ fast delivery ” , “ arrived fast ” and “ arrived quickly ” would map to the ‘quick shipment’ emoticon . 3 . Some Experiments We would like to study how one user differs from another from the point of view of tags and emotions . Similarly , we would like to understand typical tags and emoticons of different product categories like “ Jewellery ” or “ Electronics ” . Figure 3 and Figure 4 show part of feedback tags within two categories . Note that larger sized tags are more important than smaller tags . Tags like “ lovely bracelet ” and “ lovely necklace ” are representative positive emotions in the Jewellery category while “ bad battery ” or “ no power supplies ” are typical negative emotions in the laptop category . 4 . Evaluation One dimension of evaluation of the tag cloud mining system is how much noise it reduces while improving quality of information presented [ 1 ] . We choose the feedback text from a 100 sellers and plot that against the number of resulting tags for the sellers . For a seller with about 4000 words of feedback text , the resulting tags are around 25 and for a seller with about
Figure 4 : Snapshot of negative feedback tags in the laptops category . The tags “ bad battery ” and “ no power supply ” are very interesting tags within the laptops category . 5 . Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we described a system that mines tags from short text which is user feedback in a social commerce application . It mines and identifies tags that are more representative of a user among users in a community or tags that are more representative of a category among categories in an application . Tags which carry similar emotions can be combined into a common emotion represented by an emoticon . We believe that this system combines fun and utility in a unique way . For future work , we plan to continue to improve the tag mining and emoticon mapping systems . We are working on making the emoticon mapping automatic rather than dictionary based .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] M . Dubinko , R . Kumar , J . Magnani , J . Novak , P . Raghavan and A . Tomkins . Visualizing Tags over Time . International World Wide Web Conference , Scotland . May 2006 . [ 2 ] A . Rivadeneira , D . Gruen , M . Muller and D . Millen . Geeting our Head in the Clouds : Towards Evaluation Studies of Tagclouds . ACM SIGCHI 2007 . Pages 995 998 .
[ 3 ] Stephen Robertson . Understanding Inverse Document
Frequency . Journal of Documentation , Volume 60 , Number 5 , pp . 503 520(18 ) . 2004 .
1182WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
