Extracting Spam Blogs with Co citation Clusters
Kazunari Ishida
The University of Shimane
2433 2 Nobara cho , Hamada shi , Shimane 697 0016 , JAPAN
+81 855 24 2275 k ishida@u shimaneacjp
ABSTRACT This paper reports the estimated number of spam blogs in order to assess their current state in the blogosphere . To extract spam blogs , I developed a traversal method among co citation clusters of blogs from a spam seed . Spam seeds were collected in terms of high out degree and spam keyword . According to the experiment , a mixed seed set composed of high out degree and spam keyword seeds is more effective than individual seed sets in terms of FMeasure . In conclusion , mixed seeds from different methods are effective in improving the F Measure results of spam extraction with co citation clusters .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval – Information filtering .
General Terms Algorithms , Measurement , Experimentation
Keywords Spam Blog Extraction , Co citation Cluster , Advertisement Link
1 . INTRODUCTION Blogs are useful social media for researching consumer opinion on products and services , but there are many spam blogs that benefit from advertising affiliations . To get a sense of the overall number of spam blogs in the Japanese blogosphere , I observed updated blog data for the period of a week . Based on this observation period and other previous research [ 1 ] , I found that spam blogs form co citation clusters because they share advertisement links , even though other characteristics , eg term sequence , URL , anchor text , and tags were easily changed . Based on the nature of co citation clusters in spam , I developed a traversal spam extraction method , employing a Shared Interest algorithm [ 2 ] [ 3 ] to extract co citation clusters . The SI algorithm affords that a blog or a cited page can be a part of multiple clusters . Using the nature of overlap in co citation clusters , the traversal method extracts spam blogs from a spam seed set , which is automatically extracted by simple schemes . This method does not require any vast amount of learning data from spam blogs , although other methods [ 4 ] employing SVM or other learning algorithms may require such data .
2 . SPAM IN JAPANESE BLOGOSPHERE I analyzed a data set of updated blogs collected from the Japanese blogosphere from August 26th to September 1st , 2007 . I applied a heuristic to convert URLs of individual blog pages of a blogger
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . into the top level URL of the blogger . The resulting number of unique blogs was 691,674 . Because of the heuristic , frequently updated blogs have a high out degree . Figure 1 illustrates the outdegree distribution of blogs in log scale for both axes . To analyze relation between spam blogs and out degree of blogs , I arranged blogs in terms of out degree , divided them into subsets which accounted for approximately 10 % of all data , picked up 20 samples from each set , and counted spam in each sample .
Figure 1 . Out degree Distribution
I evaluated each blog in each sample manually . A general criterion for evaluating spam blogs is how much value a blogger adds to his/ her blogs . Spammers automatically or semiautomatically copy parts of the other blogs and paste them on their blogs with many commercial affiliate links . As a result , they do not add any value to their blogs . Valuable blogs contain bloggers’ opinions , experiences , and other creative content . When these valuable blogs contain advertisement links , the links are also valuable because readers are interested in their contents and tend to find useful , related products or services .
Figure 2 . Spam Distribution
Figure 2 summarizes the percentage of spam in each subset , which accounts for approximately 23 % of all data . In addition , I investigated high out degree blogs , which are 1 % ( 7038 ) of all blogs in the data set , and found that the high out degree blogs are usually spam blogs ( 19 spam blogs out of 20 samples , or 95% ) .
1043WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China 3 . SPAM EXTRACTION METHOD I developed a traversal spam extraction method with co citation clusters and a spam seed set : 1 . Prepare a spam seed set . 2 . Prepare a set of co citation clusters . 3 . Pick a blog from the spam seed set and put it into a spam pool . Pick co citation clusters containing the blog from in step 3 and remove those clusters from the set of co citation clusters . Extract all blogs contained in the clusters from step 4 and put them into a spam seed set . This does not include blogs already picked from the spam seed in step 3 .
5 .
4 . parameters , density and co citation ratio . Figure 3 shows that the mixed seeds are more effective than the high out degree seeds or the keyword seeds . There are few overlaps between high outdegree seeds and keyword seeds mixed into the mixed seed set , a result of the different schemes used to collect blogs . The wide variety of spam in the mixed seed is effective for applying the spam extraction method with co citation clusters .
Table 2 . Data Set and Spam Seeds
6 . Repeat steps 3–5 . When the spam seed set is empty , the procedure is finished .
To prepare the set of co citation clusters , I used two criteria to select clusters from all clusters extracted from the blogosphere with the SI algorithm . The first criterion is density , which is defined by dividing the number of edges that a cluster has by all possible edges of the cluster . When the density is high , blogs in a cluster share interest because of many shared co citation links . The density values 0.1 , 0.5 , and 0.9 will be used for the experiment in section 4 . The second criterion is co citation ratio , which is defined by dividing the number of blogs by the number of cited pages within a cluster . When the ratio is low , blogs in a cluster share interest because they have many co cited pages . The co citation ratio values 1 , 10 , and 100 will be used for the experiment in section 4 . To prepare spam seed sets , I used simple two schemes : high outdegree and spam keyword list . To prepare high out degree seeds , I used the top 1 % of blogs in terms of out degree because of the high spam rate described in section 2 . To prepare the spam keyword list , I selected 606 keywords for commercial affiliation and 341 keywords for adult content semi automatically using representative keyword extraction as developed in [ 3 ] . Employing the keyword list , keyword seeds were collected from the one week data set with a certain threshold , ie 1 , 3 , 5 in this paper . The thresholds indicated that a spam blog contained spam keywords more than 1 , 3 , or 5 times . To investigate the effect of mixing spam seeds , I mixed high out degree seeds and keyword seeds . The statistics of seven seeds , ie high out degree seeds , three keyword seeds ( 1 , 3 , 5 ) , and three mix seeds ( 1 , 3 , 5 ) are be summarized in section 4 .
4 . EXPERIMENT I applied the traversal spam extraction method to the one week data set to find an effective spam seed set and parameter settings for density and co citation ratio . I prepared co citation clusters for the data set with same parameters as in [ 2 ] . Table 2 summarizes statistics of the data set and seven spam seeds sets I prepared . Precision was calculated by counting spam blogs within a set of 20 samples for each seed set . Recall was derived from the estimated number of spam blogs . Figure 3 illustrates the results of the experiments in terms of F measure defined as [ (Precision * Recall * 2 ) / ( Precision + Recall) ] . The blue dotted line represents the baseline F measure of the data set ( 0374 ) The table shows mean , min , and max values for each seed set with the two
Figure 3 . Results of Spam Extraction
5 . CONCLUSION This paper reported the percentage of spam blogs in the Japanese blogosphere . It also provided the traversal spam extraction method with co citation clusters . According to the experiment conducted by this method , mixed seed is more effective in extractracting spam than high out degree seeds or keyword seeds in terms of F measure .
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] K . Ishida , ” Extracting Latent Weblog Communities : A
Partitioning Algorithm for Bipartite Graphs , ” Proceedings of the 2nd Annual Workshop on the Weblogging EcosystemAggregation , Analysis and Dynamics in WWW2005 , May 10–14 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] K . Ishida , “ A Multi Clustering Algorithm based on Line
Graph and Local Similarity , ” IPSJ FI06083009 , Vol.2006 , No.59 , pp . 69–76 , 2006 ( in Japanese ) .
[ 3 ] K . Ishida , “ Mining Collective Opinions from the
Blogosphere , ” Proceedings of CITSA2007 , pp . 154–161 , 2007 .
[ 4 ] P . Kolari , T . Finin , and A . Joshi , ” SVMs for the
Blogosphere : Blog Identification and Splog Detection , ” AAAI Symposium on Computational Approaches to Analyzing Weblogs , pp . 92–99 , 2006 .
1044WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
