Extraction and Mining of an Academic Social Network Limin Yao , Juanzi Li
Jing Zhang
Jie Tang
Department of Computer Science
Tsinghua University
FIT 1 308 , Tsinghua University ,
Beijing , 100084 , China jietang@tsinghuaeducn
Department of Computer Science
Department of Computer Science
Tsinghua University
FIT 1 308 , Tsinghua University ,
Beijing , 100084 , China
Tsinghua University
FIT 1 308 , Tsinghua University ,
Beijing , 100084 , China zhangjing@kegcstsinghuaeducn
{ylm , ljz}@kegcstsinghuaeducn
ABSTRACT This paper addresses several key issues in extraction and mining of an academic social network : 1 ) extraction of a researcher social network from the existing Web ; 2 ) integration of the publications from existing digital libraries ; 3 ) expertise search on a given topic ; and 4 ) association search between researchers . We developed a social network system , called ArnetMiner , based on proposed methods to the above problems . In total , 448,470 researcher publications were extracted/integrated after the system having been in operation for two years . The paper describes the architecture and main features of the system . It also briefly presents the experimental results of the proposed methods .
981,599 profiles and
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Storage and Retrieval ] : Information Search and Retrieval , Digital Libraries , I26 [ Artificial Intelligence ] : Learning , H28 [ Database Management ] : Database Applications .
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation
Keywords Social Network , Information Extraction , Expertise Search crawled publications .
3 . Storage and Access : it provides storage and indexing for the extracted/integrated data in the RNKB .
4 . Search : it provides three types of searches : person search , publication search , and category based search .
5 . Mining : it provides mining services , eg , expertise search on a given topic and people association finding .
5 . Mining
Expert finding
Association Finding Hot topic Finding Sub topic Finding
Survey paper finding
3 . Storage and Access
4 . Search
Person search
Publication search
Conference search
Access Interface
Indexing Storage
RNKB
Ontology
2 . Integration
Name disambiguation
1 . Extraction
Profile extraction
Publication collection
1 . INTRODUCTION The quickly growing up Web based social network applications provides abundant data for mining , at the same time bring big challenges to the field . In this paper , we present a system called ArnetMiner ( http://wwwarnetminerorg ) Our objective in this system is to provide services for managing academic social networks , specifically including : 1 ) how to extract researcher profiles from the Web , 2 ) how to integrate the researcher profiles and publications , 3 ) how to simultaneously find expertise objects ( of different types ) on a topic , and 4 ) how to find associations between researchers . 2 . ARNETMINER Figure 1 shows the architecture of the ArnetMiner system . The system mainly consists of five main components : 1 . Extraction : it focuses on automatically extracting the researcher profile from the Web . Integration : it integrates the extracted researcher profiles and
2 .
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
Web
Papers
DBLP Figure 1 . Architecture of ArnetMiner
For several features in the system , eg , extraction of researcher profiles , name disambiguation in the integration , and expertise search , we propose new approaches trying to overcome the drawbacks that exist in the conventional methods . For some other features , eg , storage and access and searching , we utilize the state of the art methods . 2.1 Researcher Profiling We define the schema of the researcher profile , by extending the FOAF ontology [ 2 ] . In the profile , 24 properties and two relations are defined . It is non trivial to perform the profile extraction , as the layout and content of the researcher homepages/introducing pages may vary largely depending on the authors . We propose a unified approach to the problem [ 5 ] . The approach consists of three steps : relevant page identification , preprocessing and tagging . In relevant page identification , given a researcher name , we first get a list of web pages by a search engine ( we used Google API ) and then identify the homepage/introducing page using a classifier . The performance of the classifier is 92.39 % in terms of F1 measure . In preprocessing , ( a ) we separate the text into tokens and ( b ) we assign possible tags to each token . The
1193WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China tokens form the basic units and the pages form the sequences of units in the tagging problem . In tagging , given a sequence of units , we determine the most likely corresponding sequence of tags by using a trained tagging model . ( The type of the tags corresponds to the property defined in the profile . ) As the tagging model , we use Conditional Random Fields ( CRFs ) [ 3 ] . CRF is a conditional probability of a sequence of labels given a sequence of observations tokens . The CRF is used to find the sequence of tags having the highest likelihood using a trained model . Features were defined for different types of tokens in the CRF model . For evaluating our unified profiling method , we randomly chose 1,000 researcher names from ArnetMiner and conducted human annotation . Experimental results show that our proposed approach can achieve a performance of 83.37 % on average in terms of F1measure , against Support Vector Machine based method ( 73.57 % ) and Amilcare ( 5344 % ) 2.2 Name Disambiguation We integrate the publication data from existing online data source . We chose DBLP bibliography ( dblpuni trierde/ ) For integrating the researcher profiles and the publications , we inevitably have the ambiguous problem . The problem can be described as : Given a person name a , let all publications containing the author named a as P={p1 , p2 , … , pn} . Suppose there existing k actual researchers {y1 , y2 , … , yk} having the name a , our task is to assign these n publications to their real researcher yi . Our method is based on a unified probabilistic model based on Hidden Markov Random Fields ( HMRF ) [ 6 ] . This model incorporates constraints and a parameterized distance measure . The disambiguation problem is cast as assigning a tag to each paper with each tag representing an actual researcher yi . Specifically , we define the a posteriori probability as the objective function . We aims at finding the maximum of the objective function . The objective function is defined as the conditional probability of researcher labels y given the papers x : ⎞ ⎟ ⎟ ⎠ w c x x , k k
1 Z x ( )
D x x { ( ,
D x y ,
( p y x (
|
)
∑
∑ i k ,
∑ exp
)]}
)
+
⎛ ⎜ ⎜ ⎝ c C ∈ k i k
) j i i
, j
≠ i
=
[
( i j where D(xi , yk ) is the distance between paper xi and researcher yk and D(xi , xj ) is the distance between paper xi and xj ; ck(xi , xj ) denotes a constraint of xi and xj ; wj is the parameter ; and Z(x ) is the normalization factor . A Expectation Maximization ( EM ) based method is used to learn the parameters for the distance function D( . ) in the model . We define six types of constraints based on the characteristic of the publications , eg , a constraint means two publications have a co author with the same name . See [ 6 ] for the other constraints . To evaluate our method , we created two datasets , namely Abbreviated Name and Real Name . The first dataset contains 10 abbreviated names ( eg ‘C . Chang’ ) and the second data set has two real person names ( eg ‘Jing Zhang’ ) . The proposed method can obtain an overall performance of 83.0 % in terms of pairwiseF1 measure [ 6 ] , outperforming the baseline [ 4 ] by 80 % 2.3 Expertise Search The goal of expertise search is aimed at answering : “ Who are experts or which are expertise conferences/papers on topic X ? ” . Traditional , the problem is usually viewed as a ranking problem using either language model to directly calculate the relevance to model
( ACT ) model between the query and the object ( eg , paper and author ) or random walk model to estimate importance of each object . We propose a Latent Dirichlet Allocation style model [ 1 ] , called Author Conference Topic the dependencies between different types of objects in the researcher network . In the ACT model , for each paper , an author is first drawn from a uniform distribution ; a topic z is then drawn from a mixture weight of the chosen author and a distribution from a symmetric Dirichlet prior ; next a word is generated from the topic z and a conference stamp is generated from the topic z . In this way , the dependencies between different types of objects are modeled using the topic z . Another advantage of the model is that we can use this model to capture the ‘semantic’/hidden relevance between the query and the target objects . After applying the ACT model to the research network , we again employ a random walk model on the heterogeneous network and finally output a combined score for each object to the query . We conducted experiments on Arnetminer with seven queries and compared the results with two baselines of using language model and PageRank , as well as results of two existing systems ( Libra and Rexa ) . Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms them from 4.26 % to 29.2 % in terms of MAP [ 7 ] . 2.4 Association Search Finally , we investigate the problem of association search : finding connections between researchers . We formalize the association search as that of near shortest paths and use a two stage approach to deal with it . First , we employed a shortest path search to find shortest path from all persons in the network to the target person and then we use a depth first search method to find top K ranked results . Our method can find the top K results in 2 5 seconds for a general query on the social network with about half million researchers and 1 million publications . 3 . CONCLUSION In this paper , we have presented a system called ArnetMiner for extracting and mining a researcher social network . We introduced the architecture and the main features of the system . We have described the four issues that we are focusing on and proposed our approaches to them . Experimental results indicate that the proposed methods can achieve high performances .
REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . Blei , A . Ng , and M . Jordan . Latent Dirichlet Allocation . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 2003 , 3 , 993 1022 . [ 2 ] D . Brickley and L . Miller , FOAF vocabulary specification , namespace document , 2004 . http://xmlnscom/foaf/01/
[ 3 ] J . Lafferty , A . McCallum , and F . Pereira . Conditional random fields : probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data . Proc . of ICML’2001 .
[ 4 ] YF Tan , M . Kan , and D . Lee . Search engine driven author disambiguation . Proc . of JCDL’2006 . pp . 314 315 .
[ 5 ] J . Tang , D . Zhang , and L . Yao . Social network extraction of academic researchers . Proc . of ICDM’2007 . pp . 292 301 [ 6 ] D . Zhang , J . Tang , J . Li , and K . Wang . A constraint based probabilistic framework for name disambiguation . Proc . of CIKM’2007 . pp . 1019 1022
[ 7 ] J . Zhang , J . Tang , L . Liu , and J . Li . A mixture model for expert finding . Proc . of PAKDD’2008 . ( to appear )
1194WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
