Personalized Tag Suggestion for Flickr
Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
Nikhil Garg nikhilgarg@epflch
Ingmar Weber ingmarweber@epflch
ABSTRACT We present a system for personalized tag suggestion for Flickr : While the user is entering/selecting new tags for a particular picture , the system is suggesting related tags to her , based on the tags that she or other people have used in the past along with ( some of ) the tags already entered . The suggested tags are dynamically updated with every additional tag entered/selected . We describe three algorithms which can be applied to this problem . In experiments , our best performing method yields an improvement in precision of 10 15 % over a baseline method very similar to the system currently used by Flickr . Our system is accessible at http://ltaa5epflch/flickr tags/
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first study on tag suggestion in a setting where ( i ) no full text information is available , such as for blogs , ( ii ) no item has been tagged by more than one person , such as for social bookmarking sites , and ( iii ) suggestions are dynamically updated , requiring efficient yet effective algorithms . Categories and Subject Descriptors H.5 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ] : H52 User Interfaces General Terms Algorithms , Human Factors , Languages , Measurement Keywords tagging systems , tag suggestions , experiments , flickr 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Flickr ( http://wwwflickrcom ) is a popular photo sharing site which hosts about 2 billion images . Users can upload and share their pictures , and they can also search among the public pictures . Search is not content based , eg , you cannot ask for “ all pictures showing a jaguar ” . Rather Flickr offers keyword search : “ find all pictures containing the term ‘jaguar’ in the title or in the description or which have this tag ” . Titles are often not very useful , as they are typically very short and/or not descriptive , eg , “ freedom ” or “ love ” . Similarly , the descriptions usually do not describe the picture , but tend to be more of a commentary or poetic nature , eg , praising the beauty of something or containing a related poem . Tags are usually the best resource for finding or organizing pictures , both personal ones and pictures taken by
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . others , as tags tend to capture the relevant keywords . Encouraging users to add more quality tags thus increases the overall value of the system . In this work , we describe algorithms which help to semi automate the tagging process by suggesting relevant tags to the user , who can then choose to add them ( by clicking ) or to ignore them ( by adding a different tag manually ) . More concretely , we propose algorithms for the following personalized tag suggestion problem :
Given ( i ) the identity of a user , ( ii ) an initial ( small or even empty ) set of tags , as well as ( iii ) the tagging history of all ( or many ) users , suggest a ranked list of related tags to the user . The initial set of tags we refer to as a “ query ” .
This problem is independent of any particular application , but we only evaluated our algorithms in the context of Flickr . We consider it most applicable in an interactive setting , where the user adds/selects tags one after another , and the system presents an updated choice to the user at each step . The personalization component helps to ( i ) find specialized tags , such as names of friends or places , and to ( ii ) disambiguate the query , by suggesting “ car ” to a car lover , when the query is “ jaguar ” . Flickr itself offers a simple service which tries to suggest tags : when a user wants to tag a picture , she can select “ Choose from your tags ” and is then presented with a subset of tags she used in the past . This list is sorted lexicographically and the items displayed seem to be a mix of tags used both very recently and very frequently by the user . The set is independent of the query , ie , the tags already entered by the user for the given picture . This approach is similar to our Method 1 . 2 . RELATED WORK
Automatically assigning/suggesting tags to blog posts [ 3 , 4 ] is related to our problem . But as blog posts come with full text , finding similar posts and hence related tags is considerably easier than for pictures . Similarly , automatic tagging of web pages can be improved/personalized , if the system has access to the surfer ’s desktop [ 1 ] . In settings where several users collaboratively tag the same items , such as for social bookmarking sites , yet other techniques can be applied [ 5 ] . Algorithms for mining association rules [ 2 ] are also relevant . But they ( i ) are comparably slow , ( ii ) would not give any result if the initial set of tags does not occur in any picture , and ( iii ) would not generate a ranked result list . Still , we might explore adaptations of those techniques in the future . 3 . THE ALGORITHMS
All of the following algorithms take as input an instance of the aforementioned problem and output a ranked list of tags , along with a weight wt for each tag t . Weights w(a ) t
1063WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China t can thus be easily linearly combined , assuming that and w(b ) weights are normalized to make them comparable . 3.1 Method 1 : Local & Query Independent
(
. fi t = nu(t)/
Let u be the user asking for tag suggestions . Let nu(t ) be the number of times a user u has used tag t in the past . Simply using w(1 ) t nu(t)2 ) , gives us our first method , which we will use as a baseline . If a user has used “ sky ” 9 times and “ john ” 4 times before , it suggests “ sky ” before “ john ” , regardless of what the user has already entered . Method 1 ( or variants using the recency of a tag ) , which is similar to Flickr ’s approach , is a natural candidate to use at the beginning when T ( q ) , the set of tags present in the query , is still empty . 3.2 Method 2 : Local & Query Dependent
( t
. fi fi t = w.(2 ) t /
Let T ( p ) be the set of tags of a picture p . Let P ( u ) be the set of pictures for user u . Method 2 first computes a weight for each picture p ∈ P ( u ) and each tag t ∈ T ( p ) as wp(t ) = |T ( p)∩T ( q)| ( and = 0 if p /∈ P ( u ) or t /∈ T ( p) ) . The weight for a tag t is then given by w.(2 ) p∈P ( u ) wp(t ) , t = t w.(2 ) 2 normalized to w(2 ) ) . This method gives a higher weight to “ john ” , if the user has already entered “ man ” , and if “ man ” and “ john ” were used together in the past . 3.3 Method 3 : Non Local & Query Dependent Due to space constraints , this method can only be outlined . It proceeds in two phases . First , it identifies a set of promising groups1 . It does this by building a group tag matrix and by using cosine similarities both on the user and the group profiles directly ( for a query independent user group similarity ) and on the original query which is expanded by Method 2 ( for a query group similarity ) . Once a small set of promising groups has been identified , it then uses Method 2 for each of these groups to get a list of tags to suggest . 4 . THE EVALUATION SETUP
Given a set of pictures , which have been tagged by users with r > k tags , we do the following for each picture in the set . First , we remove it from the tag history , so that the system does not know about this combination of tags being used by the particular user . Then we give the first k tags ( along with the identity of the user ) to the algorithm to evaluate , which has to produce a ranked list of tags . To evaluate the quality of the result list , one can then compute precision recall measures/graphs , where the remaining r− k tags are treated as the only relevant tags . This setup gives an underestimate of the quality of a system , as it assumes that each user has exhaustively tagged her pictures , so that any additional tag is considered irrelevant by her . 5 . EXPERIMENTS
We downloaded roughly 60M publicly accessible pictures for 80K groups . To filter out noise and to reduce the size of the data , we removed tags used less than 50 times . These tags were , however , not removed from the pictures on which we ran the evaluation , so that a perfect recall was impossible . We tested the three algorithms on two sets of pictures : ( i ) 200 pictures with 4 8 given tags and ( ii ) 200 pictures with 10+ given tags each . Each algorithm was only given the first two tags of each picture , and then produced a ranked list of 1Groups on flickr are more focused topic wise than individual users , and groups gave better experimental results . related tags . For each of the 400 pictures , we also asked a volunteer to evaluate the relevance of about 50 tags , obtained by combining the first 20 results of the three methods , excluding tags present in the original picture . The volunteer used a conservative approach and , eg , deliberately marked “ ears ” as irrelevant for a standard portrait or “ Europe ” for an arbitrary picture taken in a European country .
Results for 200 pictures with 4 8 tags
.24 ( .41 ) .12 ( .25 ) .08 ( .17 ) .05 ( .11 )
.42 ( .51 ) .19 ( .24 ) .11 ( .15 ) .06 ( .09 )
Method 1 Method 2 Method 3 85·M2+15·M3 .30 ( .36 ) .14 ( .20 ) .09 ( .13 ) .05 ( .08 ) Results for 200 pictures with 10+ tags Method 1 Method 2 Method 3 85·M2+15·M3 .55 ( .60 ) .35 ( .40 ) .25 ( .29 ) .17 ( .22 )
.41 ( .56 ) .19 ( .29 ) .11 ( .19 ) .06 ( .12 )
.68 ( .73 ) .49 ( .57 ) .35 ( .42 ) .22 ( .29 )
.67 ( .73 ) .48 ( .54 ) .33 ( .39 ) .21 ( .26 )
.43 ( .57 ) .30 ( .40 ) .21 ( .30 ) .15 ( .22 )
P@1 P@5 P@10 P@20
P@1 P@5 P@10 P@20
Table 1 : Precision at tag position 1 , 5 , 10 and 20 for all three methods and a combination of two schemes . The numbers in parentheses include the additional relevance information from the user study . Numbers in bold indicate the best performing method .
A combination of Method 2 and 3 gives an improvement of 10 15 % for P@1 over Method 1 . The fact that the absolute numbers are higher for the second set has two reasons . First , there are more relevant tags to be found . Even with the user evaluation , certain tags such as “ vacation ” or “ friends ” were , lacking background information , conservatively chosen as irrelevant.Second , users who add more tags to an individual picture usually have a better tagging history , so that all three methods automatically work better .
Overall , Method 3 benefits the most from the user study , as it suggests relevant tags outside the user ’s vocabulary . Although the improvements of the combined scheme over Method 2 are not dramatic , they are certainly noticable . Currently , we are working on an improved use of the “ external knowledge ” from groups . 6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] P . A . Chirita , S . Costache , W . Nejdl , and
S . Handschuh . P tag : large scale automatic generation of personalized annotation tags for the web . In The 16th international conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , pages 845–854 , 2007 .
[ 2 ] J . Hipp , U . G¨untzer , and G . Nakhaeizadeh . Algorithms for association rule mining ˚U a general survey and comparison . SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter , 2(1):58–64 , 2000 .
[ 3 ] G . Mishne . Autotag : a collaborative approach to automated tag assignment for weblog posts . In The 15th international conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , pages 953–954 , 2006 .
[ 4 ] S . C . Sood , K . J . Hammond , S . H . Owsley , and
L . Birnbaum . TagAssist : Automatic Tag Suggestion for Blog Posts . In The 1st International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media ( ICWSM 2007 ) , 2007 .
[ 5 ] Z . Xu , Y . Fu , J . Mao , and D . Su . Towards the semantic web : Collaborative tag suggestions . Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop at WWW2006 , 2006 .
1064WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
