R U In ? : Doing What You Like , with People Whom You Like
Nilanjan Banerjee , Dipanjan Chakraborty , Koustuv Dasgupta , Sumit Mittal , Seema Nagar
IBM India Research Laboratory
ISID Campus , Vasant Kunj , New Delhi 110070 , India
Email : {nilanjba , cdipanjan , kdasgupta , sumittal , seenagar}@inibmcom
ABSTRACT This paper presents R U In ? – a social networking application that leverages Web 2.0 and IMS based Converged Networks technologies to create a rich next generation service . R U In ? allows a user to search ( in real time ) and solicit participation of like minded partners for an activity of mutual interest ( eg a rock concert , a soccer game , or a movie ) . It is an example of a situational mashup application that exploits content and capabilities of a Telecom operator , blended with Web 2.0 technologies , to provide an enhanced , value added service experience .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H43 [ Communications Applications ] . General Terms Management , Design , Human Factors . Keywords Web 2.0 , Mashups , Social Networking , NGN .
1 . INTRODUCTION Recent years have witnessed the surge of social networking as a popular medium for online collaboration . With the advent of Web 2.0 technologies , like AJAX [ 6 ] , competing social networking sites ( eg Orkut [ 7 ] , Facebook [ 8 ] ) are constantly looking at ways to provide innovative features to their users . At the same time , there is a growing trend among traditional Telecom operators to offer their own capabilities and content as services . Operators have a wealth of content associated with their network as well as core network enablers , eg call control , presence and messaging . With standards like Parlay X [ 4 ] , it looks increasingly feasible to create mashup applications that combine network capabilities with Web based services , in a number of interesting ways . This , in turn , presents unique opportunities for Telecom operators to protect and enhance their revenue streams in a Web 2.0 world . R U In ? is one such the concept of real time social application networking by enhancing social networking content ( user profiles , interests , and buddy lists ) with advanced Telecom features , and delivering them using Web 2.0 technologies . Using R U In ? , one can search for partners in his/her vicinity who are interested in and available for an activity of mutual interest . Potential matches ( partners ) are displayed on Google
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . that enables
Maps along with their current attributes ( eg availability status , reputation , interests etc ) Figure 1 provides a snapshot of the R U In ? portal . The user can further employ Telecom widgets , presented as part of the portal , to invite a partner , send a message , or place a call all monitored by appropriate access control mechanisms , eg one can send an SMS/call a partner only when she has accepted the invite . Telecom functionalities of the operator ( like location ) , along with SIP [ 1 ] based presence infrastructure , is used to manage dynamic attributes of users ( ie location , availability and current interests ) . R U In ? also seeks rating based feedback from activity partners and uses this to foster trust in its social network , based on collaborative feedback . R U In ? finally employs Web 2.0 technologies to “ mash up ” real time data from multiple information sources ( ie 3rd party social network , presence substrate , and Telecom services ) to present the user with an enhanced , service experience .
Figure 1 . R U In ? portal .
R U In ? thus adds the benefits of real time information , as well as communication capabilities , to social networking content and delivers a service that is targeted towards the niche domain of one to one online communications . 2 . USE CASE A subscriber Joshua , has two tickets to the Led Zeppelin Reunion Concert on Friday night . The concert starts in a couple of hours and none of his friends are in town . Joshua logs on to the R U In ? portal and issues a query for someone interested in this activity . To help R U In ? search through the list of subscribers , he specifies “ Music ” as one of the search keywords . The R U In ? matchmaking engine returns to Joshua a list of users ( on Google Maps ) who have expressed an interest in this activity
1239WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China ( namely ‘Music’ ) , located in the vicinity , and have their real time presence status as available . Joshua can now browse over each match and follow links to their social networking ( Orkut ) profiles . In particular , he likes the profile of Sue who happens to be an “ Orkut friend of his friend ” Bob . Using the portal , Joshua next sends an invite to Sue . The invitation is delivered as an SMS on her mobile device . Once Sue accepts the invitation , a notification is sent back to Joshua on his personalized R U In ? mailbox , as well as his mobile device . Joshua can next use one of the Telecom widgets ( eg SMS , Click to Call ) available on the portal , to inform her of further relevant details about the event . The two eventually meet up and have a blast at the concert . A few days later , Sue is requested for a feedback on her experience using the service and , in particular , her partner Joshua . The feedback is used by the service to update the rating of Joshua as an R U In ? activity partner .
Figure 2 . R U In ? system architecture .
3 . SALIENT FEATURES As demonstrated by the use case scenario , R U In ? provides a number of salient features , as a real time social networking service , that arise from the use of next generation converged network capabilities blended in a Web 2.0 flavor . These features include : ( 1 ) the ability to find on demand likeminded partners who are potentially interested in a common activity filtered by their current location , availability , and interests attributes , ( 2 ) ability to present the results on Google Maps along with these real time attributes and presence status ( dynamically updated using AJAX ) , ( 3 ) ability to invite one or more of the matched users for the activity through multiple channels like the Web or via SMS , ( 4 ) communicate with a partner using Telecom widgets ( namely , SMS and Click to Call ) that are available on the portal , and finally ( 5 ) rate an activity partner based on the experience , thereby building a notion of trust in the matchmaking process . 4 . R U In ? SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE Figure 2 presents the architecture of R U In ? . At a high level , R UIn ? consists of three tiers – ( i ) the presentation tier empowered by Web 2.0 technologies , ( ii ) the control tier consisting of the social networking core , and ( iii ) the services tier comprising of converged NGN ( Next Generation Network ) capabilities . The presentation tier is based on Web 2.0 technologies and serves as an interactive interface to a subscriber using the service . The RU In ? social networking core uses real time location attributes of subscribers ( using Telecom Parlay X APIs ) , as well as live updates of their availability status and current interests , in a Matchmaking Engine that provides a list of matches for an activity . The Location ,
Availability , and Interests managers ( in Fig 2 ) store and manage the dynamic attributes to be used in the matchmaking process . The NGN Services manager controls and facilitates the access of users to the communication services that are available as part of the portal ( currently Click to Call and SMS , in future extended to include Email , IM etc . ) The services tier consists of the NGN infrastructure that is available to R U In ? . This includes traditional Telecom functionalities like location , messaging , and call control , along with advanced presence based capabilities , as well as enterprise communication features like IM . As mentioned earlier , the Matchmaking engine [ 3 ] is the core module that uses real time attributes of the requester and other users to find a list of potential matches in response to the queried activity . For the sake of brevity , we omit other implementations details of the R U In ? system . However , it is worth mentioning that we have used the IBM Presence Server , based on the SIMPLE protocol [ 1 ] , to efficiently implement the Presence substrate of our solution . We have similarly used IBM Telecom Web Services Server ( TWSS ) to capture location information of subscribers from the Telecom infrastructure . Further , the current implementation uses Parlay X [ 4 ] interfaces to Telecom functionalities such as third party Call control and SMS , that are available as part of TWSS . 5 . CONCLUSIONS R U In ? demonstrates a real time social networking service that brings together benefits of converged communication capabilities provided by Next Generation Networks and mature Web 2.0 technologies that are present today . The proposed mashup application can be efficiently deployed by Telecom operators either as a value added service or in collaboration with third party social networking services that are popular in different geographic regions . 6 . REFERENCES 1 . A Presence Event Package for Session Initiation Protocol
( RFC 3856 ) . http://wwwietforg/rfc/rfc3856txt
2 . N . Banerjee , K . Dasgupta , and S . Mukherjea . Providing
Middleware Support for the Control and Co ordination of Telecom Mashups . In proceedings of MNCNA Workshop , Middleware Conference , Nov' 07 .
3 . D . Chakraborty , K . Dasgupta , S . Mittal , A . Misra , A . Gupta , E . Newmark , and C . L . Oberle . BusinessFinder : Harnessing Presence to enable Live Yellow Pages for Small , Medium and Micro Mobile Businesses . In Proc . IEEE Communications Magazine , Issue on New Directions in Networking Technologies in Emerging Economies" , Jan 2007 .
4 . Open Service Access ( OSA ) ; Parlay X Web Services ; Part 1 :
Common . 3GPP TS 29199 01
5 . S . Mittal , D . Chakraborty , S . Goyal , S . Mukherjea . SewNet
A Framework for Creating Services utilizing Telecom Functionality . ( To appear ) in Proc . 17th International World Wide Conference ( WWW ) , April 2008 .
6 . AJAX . wwwaspnet/ajax/ 7 . Orkut . wwworkutcom/ 8 . Facebook . wwwfacebookcom/
1240WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
