Finding Core Members in Virtual Communities∗
Haiqiang Chen
Institute of Computing
Technology
PO Box 2704 Beijing , China chenhq@softwareictaccn
Xueqi Cheng
Institute of Computing
Technology
PO Box 2704 Beijing , China cxq@ictaccn
Yue Liu
Institute of Computing
Technology
PO Box 2704 Beijing , China liuyue@ictaccn
ABSTRACT Finding the core members of a virtual community is an important problem in community analysis . Here we presented an simulated annealing algorithm to solve this problem by optimizing the user interests concentration ratio in user groups . As an example , we test this algorithm on a virtual community site and evaluate its results using human “ gold standard ” method .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H33 [ Information Systems ] : Information Search and Retrieval ; H35 [ Information Systems ] : Online Information Services ; J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and Behaviorial Sciences
General Terms Algorithms , Experimentation,Human Factors
Keywords Virtual community , core members finding , simulated annealing
1 .
INTRODUCTION
People have been using virtual communities to communicate since the beginning of the Internet . In the last few years , many virtual communities burgeon on the Internet , and it is very easy now to build a new virtual community using tools provided by those web based community building sites . In simple terms , virtual community ( or online community ) is the gathering of people , in online space where they can come , communicate , and get to know each other better over time . According to the definition of Howard Rheingold in [ 3 ] , virtual communities are social aggregations that emerge from the Net when enough people carry on public discussions long enough , with sufficient human feeling , to form webs of personal relationships in cyberspace .
An important feature of the virtual community is the open membership . One can join any virtual community he want , ∗This research is supported by the 973 National Basic Research Program of China ( 2004CB318109 & 2007CB311100 ) and MSRA IST 2007(FY07 RES THEME 067 ) . and he can reach all its members easily . The open access to virtual communities brings numerous members to them . But among those members , most are seldom heard to other members . Among those non active members , some are pure observers , and some are light participants , raising voice occasionally . Only a small portion of the members are active in the virtual community . In our study , such active members are called core members .
Finding the core members in virtual community is an intriguing problem and has been little researched so far . In this paper , inspired by the ideas of Guimera[1 ] we proposed a computer algorithm to solve this problem . As an example , we give results from the application of this algorithm in the virtual communities of a Chinese web site Doubancom
2 . THE ALGORITHM
According to our intuitive understanding and the definition by Rheingold[3 ] , the shared interests and activities are one of the most important feature of the virtual community . Generally , the shared interests and activities are the major reason to attract users to join the virtual community .
In most of the virtual community web sites , the user tagging information can be used to define the interests of the users . We assume that one user u ’s interests can be presented by the set of subjects which have been tagged by this user . So user u has a set of tagged subjects : Iu = {s1 , s2 , . . . , sn} . As a result , we can get a bi partite graph between all users and tagged subjects .
Considering user u and subject s : assuming that s has been tagged by Ms users , and user u has tagged Nu subjects , then , the probability that user u have tagged s is :
So , it can be easy to know the probability that s has been tagged by both u and v is :
The expectation of the number of subjects tagged by both u and v is ( note that
Ms =
Nk ) :
Nu
Nk
( k k k s
( s
Ms
Ms(Ms − 1 )
NuNv
Nk)2
Ms(Ms − 1 )
Ms)2 NuNv
( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 .
As s
Ms(Ms − 1 ) and s s
Ms are global properties which
1233WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China X s
X do not depend on the pair of u and v selected , we can calculate equation ( 3 ) very quickly using some simple multiply operations . So given a user set G = {u1 , u2 , . . . , un} , we can define the user interests concentration ratio as the cumulative deviation of the number of shared subjects tagged from the random expectation :
Ms(Ms − 1 )
CG = ( u6=v∈G cuv − s
(
Ms)2 NuNv)/ s
Ms(Ms − 1 )
( 4 ) where cuv is the number of shared interests tagged by both u and v . If the number of shared interests in group G is no different from the random expectation , then this quantity CG will be zero . If the value CG is larger than zero , it indicates that the users in group G have more shared interests than the random expectation .
In a virtual community , the core members will have more interaction with each other than those non core members . As a result , the core members in a virtual community would share more common interests with each other than those non core members . So we can use the user interest concentration ratio CG to find the core members in virtual communities : the problem of finding the core members of a virtual community can be transformed into the problem of finding the portion of members in the virtual community with large CG value .
In order to solve this problem , we choose to use the simulated annealing ( SA)[2 ] method . Simulated annealing[2 ] is a stochastic optimization technique that enables one to find ‘low cost’ configuration without getting trapped by the ‘high cost’ local minima .
Our algorithm can now be defined as follows .
1 . Set the initial temperature as T and initial solution
S = G ;
2 . Randomly choose a ∈ G : if a ∈ S , then S′ = S\{a} =
{x|x ∈ S , x 6= a} ; if a /∈ S , S′ = S ∪ {a} ;
3 . Calculate ∆ = CS ′ − CS : if ∆ > 0 , accept the new solution S = S′ , if ∆ <= 0 , accept the new solution S = S′ with the probability e∆/T ;
4 . Cool down the temperature T = cT , c=0.995 ; 5 . Repeat step 2 4 until the temperature T is small enough .
3 . RESULTS ON DOUBAN.COM
In order to test our algorithm , here we give one example , the analysis of the virtual communities in Doubancom Douban.com is a Chinese web site . It can be labeled as a “ collaborative filtering ” or “ collaborative tagging ” site , where one can tag his interested items and share his reviews or comments about millions of books and movies with others . Basing on the user tagging behaviors , reviews and comments , Douban.com helps its users to get recommendations about new books and movies .
As another result , Douban.com can also help one to find other users with similar tastes and interests , so they can get connected and communicate with each other . Douban.com provide a community service , which is called “ Douban Group ” . Anyone can set up a new group about some topic and invite others to join this group . In these groups , group members can discuss their interested topic , and get more information from other members .
Score 1
0.5
0
Description Full committed participant and group leaders . The participant who is heading toward to be full committed , but still not now . New comer or lurker who never talk in this group .
Table 1 : User categorization table
Algorithm Result
0 1
Human Rating
0
0.39 0.24
0.25 0.02 0.04
0.5 0.005 0.02
0.75 0.01 0.02
1
0.055 0.21
Table 2 : Correlation between human ratings and algorithm results .
In this study , we chose all tagged items by one user as his interests profile . Each item which has been tagged by a user is one of his interests . Our algorithm can output a list of core members for each group .
Since there was no explicit core members data in Douban.com , we needed to use human raters to generate “ gold standard ” to evaluate our results . As it was not possible for us to rate a large number of groups and users , we rate only a small set of the users . We randomly chose 10 middle sized groups ( group size varies from 100 to 200 ) from 38423 groups on Douban.com , and then for each group , 20 members were chosen as our evaluation samples .
We invited two raters who are also Douban.com users(but not the members of the 10 selected group ) . For each group , the raters explored the group ’s home page , bulletin boards and personal profiles of every members , so as to decide weather the 20 selected user was the core member of the group . Users were categorized as Table 1 .
After both raters submit the rating results , we use the average score by the two rater as the final human rating results . Table 2 shows the correlation between human rating score and the algorithm output score for all of our 200 test samples . This results show that our algorithm can find most of the core members from the virtual community , although the false positive rate is quite high .
4 . CONCLUSIONS
Finding the core members in virtual communities is a intriguing problem for social network analysis and other related areas . Here we presented a SA algorithm to solve this problem . We also apply and evaluate this algorithm in a real world online community , Doubancom The algorithm show some satisfying results . But how to improve this algorithm ’s false positive rate is still a major challenge for us .
5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . Guimera , M . Sales Pardo , and L . A . N . Amaral .
Module identification in bipartite and directed networks . Physical Review E , 76 , 036102(2007 ) . [ 2 ] S . Kirkpatrick , C . D . Gelatt , and M . P . Vecchi . Optimization by simulated annealing . Science , 220(4598):671–680 , May 1983 .
[ 3 ] H . Rheingold . The Virtual Community : Homesteading on the Electronic Frontier , revised edition . The MIT Press , November 2000 .
1234WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
