Visualizing Historical Content of Web Pages
Adam Jatowt Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo ku
606 8501 Kyoto , Japan Phone : +81 75 7535969
Yukiko Kawai
Katsumi Tanaka
Kyoto Sangyo University
Motoyama , Kamigamo , Kita Ku
603 8555 Kyoto , Japan Phone : +81 75 7052958
Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi , Sakyo ku
606 8501 Kyoto , Japan Phone : +81 75 7535969 adam@dlkuiskyoto uacjp kawai@cckyoto suacjp tanaka@dlkuiskyoto uacjp the Web , the rapid growth of
ABSTRACT Recently , along with the preservation efforts have also increased . As a consequence , large amounts of past Web data are stored in Web archives . This historical data can be used for better understanding of long term page topics and characteristics . In this paper , we propose an interactive visualization system called Page History Explorer for exploring page histories . It allows for roughly portraying evolution of pages and summarizing their content over time . We use a temporal term cloud as a structure for visualizing prevailing and active terms appearing on pages in the past .
Categories and Subject Descriptors H54 [ Information Interfaces and Presentation ( eg , HCI) ] : Hypertext/Hypermedia .
General Terms Algorithms
Keywords page history visualization , web archive , past web , history summarization 1 . INTRODUCTION While browsing , users create mental images of visited pages . However , the current content of pages may not necessarily provide answers to the questions about their typical topics and temporal characteristics . On the other hand , the retrospective data stored in Web archives such as the Internet Archive1 offers the possibility for a better understanding of pages . Utilizing this data could improve various tasks on the Web such as page authoring , browsing or bookmarking . For example , page authors could better estimate the long term relevance , freshness and usefulness of pages to which they wish to create links . In this paper , we demonstrate Page History Explorer ( PHE ) an application for providing comprehensive overviews of historical content of pages and their long term characteristics ( Figure 1 ) . It downloads past snapshots of pages from selected Web archives and visualizes them on 2D space in which one dimension represents time and another represents the cumulative change degree . PHE also summarizes historical content of pages by indicating common and active content occurring over time . In addition , users can input arbitrary terms in order to observe page histories from keyword related viewpoints .
1 Internet Archive : http://wwwarchiveorg
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW 2008 , April 21–25 , 2008 , Beijing , China . ACM 978 1 60558 085 2/08/04 . their indicating
In our previous study [ 2 ] , we have proposed Past Web Browser – a browsing application for page histories similar to traditional browsers and VCR players . It animated changes between consecutive versions of a page drawing user attention to the changed content by presenting it as appearing or disappearing effects depending on the type of change . The application helped also users to navigate through the historical content of pages . In [ 1 ] the authors demonstrated an interesting tool for visualizing popular tags of images stored in flickr 2 repository over time . Viegas et al . [ 3 ] proposed a history flow mechanism for observing the evolution of multi authored pages such as Wikipedia pages . Their system allows for noticing the content contributed by different users and its persistence over time . In contrast to these proposals , PHE provides summarized views of the histories of arbitrary pages typical persisting content , characterizing common changes and portraying their visual and temporal characteristics . 2 . SUMMARIZING PAST CONTENT PHE downloads data from the Internet Archive for a specified URL and a time period . In order to decrease the cost , we let a user select the number of past page snapshots to be fetched . The snapshots sampled from the archive should be possibly uniformly distributed over time . Naturally , the more downloaded snapshots there are , the higher is the precision of the generated summary . Page History Explorer uses a term cloud as a means of providing aggregate information on historical page content . We distinguish two types of such a term cloud , prevalence and activity term clouds . The former represents top prevailing terms over time , that is , terms which frequently occurred in the page in the past . We estimate the prevalence score of a term as its average frequency calculated over all the fetched page snapshots within the specified time period ( Equation 1 ) . 1 ∑− T
( Ta ;
TF a t )( i
( 1 )
)
∗
− t i
)
=
( t i
1 + prev
S k
1 i
1 =
In Equation 1 , TFa(ti ) is the frequency of a term a in the page snapshot that was crawled at ti , T is the user specified time period , while k is the number of fetched page snapshots . The frequency of the term in every snapshot is also multiplied by the time distance between this snapshot and the next available snapshot . Terms are also filtered through stop list and stemmed . The calculation of prevalence scores is independent of the pattern of page updates over time . If a term always appeared in the static ( unchanging ) content of a page ( eg , a term “ copyright ” ) it may be of little interest to users . On the other hand , terms that are frequently added and deleted from pages may indicate important
2 Flickr : http://flickr.com
1221WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China changes in the amount of fresh content relevant to the keyword in the past . Additionally , a term cloud consisting of top co occurring terms is shown above . content . Thus , PHE provides also activity term cloud based on term activity scores . The activity score of a term is computed as a probability that the term occurred in added or deleted content within the time period T . It is estimated as the combination of the probability of a change occurrence and the probability of the term appearing in this change ( Equation 2 ) . Changes are found by comparing the content of consecutive page snapshots . active
S
MTa );( T
=
*
TF chan a
( )T
( 2 ) chan(T ) is the average frequency of a term a in added and TFa deleted content over all page snapshots , while M is the number of snapshots that have any content change when compared to the neighboring snapshots . In addition , we calculate term clouds for a user specified R number of unit time periods within T in order to allow finer analysis of page history . The calculation of term scores is derived from a well known tf*idf weighting scheme .
S
X unit
( Ta ; w
)
=
TaX ;( w log* )
⎛ ⎜ ⎜ ⎝
R
∑ j
1 =
⎡ ⎢ ⎢ ⎣
TaX ;( ) w TaX ;( 1 ) + j
⎤ ⎥ ⎥ ⎦
+
1
⎞ ⎟ ⎟ ⎠
( 3 )
X(a,Tw ) denotes here either the prevalence or activity score of a term a inside a given time frame Tw ( R*|Tw|=|T| ) . Lastly , PHE enables also users to input arbitrary keywords for calculating the top co occurring terms inside historical content of pages . The equation for the calculation of the co occurrence scores of terms is adapted from the Jaccard coefficient .
S X cooc
Tba ; ,(
)
=
) ( TbaX ; , ) ( TbX ; −
( TaX ;
)
+
( )TbaX
;
,
( 4 )
X(a,b;T ) is either prevalence or activity score of the common occurrence of terms a and b within T . 3 . VISUALIZATION PHE displays clouds of 20 top scored terms over the specified time period in the top frame ( Figure 1 ) . In addition , term clouds for R number of short time periods are shown below . For every such unit term cloud up to 20 top scored terms are displayed . The font sizes of the shown terms reflect their prevalence or activity scores depending on the user ’s selection . In addition , page snapshots are converted to thumbnail images and visualized on a 2D space in which the horizontal axis represents time distance while the vertical one represents the cumulative degree of added change . Thus , the horizontal distance between a snapshot si and snapshot si+1 depends on the temporal distance between their timestamps . The vertical distance , on the other hand , reflects the size of content that occurs in si+1 while being absent from si . With this kind of visualization , a user can grasp the evolution of a page and spot time periods when large content additions occurred . It is also possible to roughly compare the outlook of page content and page sizes at different time points . Clicking on any thumbnail activates a pop up window with the corresponding page snapshot . In addition , users can zoom in or out the visualized snapshots . Upon inputting a keyword , users obtain the overview of page history from a keyword based viewpoint . In this case , the vertical axis represents the cumulative frequency of the input keyword within added content over time . This allows for observing
Figure 1 The history view of BBC homepage ( wwwbbccouk )
4 . CONCLUSIONS In this paper , we proposed an approach for visualizing summarized page histories based on data extracted from Web archives . Users can obtain an overview of the long term content and characteristics of pages . This sort of visualization can help with better understanding of pages and can add temporal context to their current content . In future , we plan to conduct user evaluation and add functionality for comparison between the histories of different pages .
5 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported by the MEXT Grant in Aid for Scientific Research in Priority Areas entitled : Content Fusion and Seamless Search ( #18049041 , Representative : Katsumi Tanaka ) , the Kyoto University Global COE Program : Informatics Education and Research Center for Knowledge Circulating ( Representative : Katsumi Tanaka ) and by the MEXT Grant in Aid for Young Scientists B ( #18700111 , #18700110 ) .
Information Explosion
Society for
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] Dubinko , M . , Kumar , R . , Magnani , J . , Novak , J . , Raghavan , P . and Tomkins , A . Visualizing tags over time . Proceedings of the15th World Wide Web Conference , Edinburgh , Scotland , 2006 , 193 202 .
[ 2 ] Jatowt , A . , Kawai , Y . , Nakamura , S . , Kidawara , Y . and Tanaka , K . Journey to the past : proposal for a past Web browser . Proceedings of the 17th Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia , Odense , Denmark , 2006 , 134 144 . [ 3 ] Viégas , F . , Wattenberg , M . and Dave , K . Studying cooperation and conflict between authors with history flow visualizations . Proceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , Vienna , Austria , 2004 , 575582 .
1222WWW 2008 / Poster PaperApril 21 25 , 2008 · Beijing , China
