Visualizing Brand Associations from Web Community Photos
Gunhee Kim Disney Research
Pittsburgh , 15213 PA gunhee@cscmuedu
Eric P . Xing
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh , 15213 PA epxing@cscmuedu
ABSTRACT Brand Associations , one of central concepts in marketing , describe customers’ top of mind attitudes or feelings toward a brand . ( eg what comes to mind when you think of Nike ? ) Thus , this consumer driven brand equity often attains the grounds for purchasing products or services of the brand . Traditionally , brand associations are measured by analyzing the text data from consumers’ responses to the survey or their online conversation logs . In this paper , we propose to leverage large scale online photo collections contributed by the general public , given that photos are gaining popularity as an important information modality on the Web . As a first technical step toward photo based brand association study , we aim to jointly achieve the following two visualization tasks in a mutually rewarding way : ( i ) detecting and visualizing core visual concepts associated with brands , and ( ii ) localizing the regions of brand in images . With experiments on about five millions of images of 48 brands crawled from five popular online photo sharing sites , we demonstrate that our approach can discover complementary views on the brand associations that are hardly mined from text data . We also quantitatively show that our approach outperforms other candidate methods on both visualization tasks .
Categories and Subject Descriptors I49 [ Image processing and computer vision ] : Applications ; J.4 [ Computer Applications ] : Social and behavioral sciences—Economics
Keywords Brand associations , summarization and visualization of multimedia data , image segmentation
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Brand equity describes a set of values or assets linked to a brand [ 1 , 13 ] . It is one of core concepts in marketing since it is a key source of bearing the competitive advantage of a company over its competitors , boosting efficiency and effectiveness of marketing programs , and attaining the price premium due to increased customer satisfaction and loyalty , to name a few . A central component of brand equity is brand associations , which are the set of associations that consumers perceive with the brand [ 13 ] . For example , the brand associations of Nike may include Tiger Woods , shoes , and basketball . Its significance lies in that it is a customerdriven brand equity ; that is , the brand associations are directly connected to customers’ top of mind attitudes or feelings toward the brand , which provoke the reasons to preferentially purchase the products or services of the brand . For instance , if a customer strongly associates Nike with golf shirts , he may tend to first consider Nike products over other competitors’ ones when he needs one .
Traditionally , measuring brand associations is a challenging task because it should be built from direct consumer responses to carefully designed questionnaires [ 2 , 5 , 24 , 26 ] . With the recent emergence of online social media , it has been developed to indirectly leverage consumer generated data on online communities such as Weblogs , boards , and Wiki . Beneficially , resources on such social media are obtainable inexpensively and almost instantaneously from a large crowd of potential customers . One typical example of such practice is the Brand Association Map developed by Nielsen Online [ 2 , 19 ] , in which important concepts and themes correlated with a given brand name are automatically extracted from the data of online conversations .
In this paper , for the study of brand associations , we propose to go beyond textual media , and take advantage of large scale online photo collections , which have not been explored so far . Admittedly , pictures can be inferior to mine subjective sentiments than texts ( eg Nike is too expensive ) . However , pictures can be a complementary information modality to show customers’ experiences regarding brands within a natural context . With widespread availability of digital cameras and smartphones , people can freely take pictures on any memorable moments , which include experiencing or purchasing products they like . In addition , many online tools enable people to easily share , comment , or bookmark the images of products that they wish to buy . A complete solution to photo based brand associations can be too challenging to be achieved in a single paper since it requires not only technical algorithms but also sophisticated user interfaces for marketers and general users based upon thorough user studies . Thus , as a first technical step , in this paper , we address the problem of jointly achieving the following two levels of visualization tasks regarding brand
Figure 1 : Motivation for two visualization tasks toward brand association study from Web community photos with two competing brands of Nike and Adidas . ( a ) Task1 : we perform exemplar detection and clustering to reconstruct brand association maps ( BAM ) . A more strongly associated cluster with the brand appears closer to the center of the map . A higher correlated pair of clusters has a smaller angular distance . We show top 20 exemplars ( ie cluster centers ) in the map . On the right , for some selected exemplars , we show the average images of 40 nearest neighbors in their corresponding clusters . ( b ) Task2 : we segment the most likely regions of brand in the images . associations . ( See the examples in Fig 1 ) .
( 1 ) Visualizing core pictorial concepts associated with brands :
It has been a key problem in brand association research to concisely visualize important concepts associated with brands in a form of networks or maps [ 2 , 6 , 24 , 26 ] . Therefore , our first task is , as shown in Fig 1.(a ) , to visualize core visual concepts of brands by summarizing online photos that are tagged and organized by general users . This goal involves three sub problems : identifying a small number of image clusters and exemplars ( ie cluster centers ) , discovering the similarity relations between clusters , and projecting them into a low dimensional space .
( 2 ) Localizing the regions of brand in images : Our second task is the sub image level visualization of brand associations , while the first task addresses the image level one . We aim to localize the regions that are most associated with the brand in each image in an unsupervised way ( ie without any pre defined models ) , as shown in Fig 1(b ) In our algorithm , we perform pixel level image segmentation to delineate the regions of brand . Even though bounding boxes may be better as the final output to the general users , they can be trivially derived from segmentation results , by defining the minimum rectangle that encloses the segment while ignoring tiny unconnected dots .
We choose the above two tasks as the most fundamental building blocks for the study of photo based brand associations for following reasons . The first task can provide a structural summary of large scale and ever growing online image data of brands , which otherwise are too overwhelming for human to grasp any underlying big picture . The second task can not only suppress background clutters , but also help reveal typical interactions between users and products in natural social scenes , which can lead a wide variety of potential benefits , ranging from content based image retrieval to online multimedia advertisement .
Importantly , jointly solving these two tasks are mutually rewarding . The exemplar detection/clustering can group similar images , which can promote the brand localization since we can leverage the recurring foreground signals . In the reverse direction , localizing brand regions can enhance the similarity measurement between images , which subsequently contributes to better exemplar detection/clustering .
For evaluation , we collect about five millions of images of 48 brands of four categories ( ie sports , luxury , beer , and fastfood ) from five popular photo sharing sites , including Flickr , Photobucket , deviantART , Twitpic , and Pinterest . In our experiments , we show the picture driven brand association maps for some selected brands . We also demonstrate that our approach outperforms other candidate methods on both exemplar detection/clustering and brand localization . Finally , we compare the results of our picturebased brand associations with actual sales data of brands . 1.1 Relations to Previous work
We here introduce two lines of research that are remotely related to our work .
Measuring brand associations by free association : In almost all previous research for brand associations , the surveys on customers are the main approach to collect source data . Among many ways to conduct the survey , the free association procedure has been one of the simplest but often most powerful ways to profile brand associations [ 5 , 6 , 26 ] . In this technique , subjects are asked to freely answer their feelings and thoughts about a given brand name without any editing or censoring [ 18 ] . ( eg What comes to mind when you think of Nike ? ) Our research is also based on this free association idea , because we view the Web photos tagged with a brand name by anonymous users as their candid pictorial impressions to the brand . Therefore , from a viewpoint of brand association research , the contribution of our work is to introduce a novel source of data for the analysis .
In this line of research , the brand association map of Nielsen Online [ 2 , 19 ] is closely related to our work because both approaches explore online data . However , our work is unique in that we explore online image data , which convey complementary views on the brand associations that can be missed in texts . In addition , we localize the regions of brand in every photo , which is another novel feature of our work . Analysis of product images : Recently , with the exploding interests in electronic commerce , computer vision techniques have widely applied to analyze product images for commercial applications . Some notable examples include the product image search and ranking [ 11 ] , the logo and product detection in natural images [ 9 , 12 , 16 , 23 ] , and
Web sites Flickr/
Photobucket
Pinterest deviantART
Twitpic
Characteristics
Two largest and most popular photo sharing sites in terms of volumes of photos . Image collections bookmarked by users Various forms of artwork created by users . Photos shared via Twitter .
Table 1 : Five Web sites for crawling photos . clothing parsing in fashion photos [ 28 ] . However , the objective of our work differs in that we aim to discover and visualize the core concepts of brands from uncleaned online images , whereas most of past work has focused on detecting a fixed number of specified product models or logos in the images . Therefore , in our work , it is important to mine the visual topics that do not explicitly contain the products but reflect general public ’s thoughts , feelings , or experiences over the brands ( eg sponsored yacht competition scenes in the Rolex images ) . 1.2 Summary of Contributions
The contributions of our work are summarized as follows : ( 1 ) We study the problem of visualizing brand associations in both image and sub image levels by leveraging large scale online pictures . To the best of our knowledge , our work is the first attempt so far on such photo based brand association analysis . Our work can provide another novel and complementary way to visualize general public ’s impressions or thoughts on the brands .
( 2 ) We develop an algorithm to jointly achieve exemplar detection/clustering and brand localization in a mutuallyrewarding way . In addition , we design an embedding algorithm to visualize the top exemplars in a circular layout .
( 3 ) With experiments on about five million images of 48 brands , we have found that the proposed algorithms can comprehensively but succinctly visualize key concepts of largescale brand image collections . We also quantitatively demonstrate that our approach outperforms other candidate methods on both visualization tasks .
2 . PROBLEM FORMULATION 2.1
Image Data Crawling
Since we are interested in consumer driven views on the brands , we use the online photos that are contributed and organized by general Web users . As source data , we crawl images from the five popular photo sharing sites in Table 1 . The characteristics of the pictures on the five sites are different from one another as shown in Table 1 . We exclude the Google image search because much of the pictures are originated from online shopping malls or news agencies . We query the brand names via the built in search engines of the above sites to search for the pictures tagged with brand names . We download all retrieved images without any filtering . We also crawl meta data of the pictures ( eg timestamps , titles , user names , texts ) , if available .
Fig 2 summarizes our dataset of 4,783,345 images for 48 brands , which can be classified into four categories : luxury , sports , beer , and fastfood . The number of images per brand varies much according to the popularity of the brand . 2.2 Overview of Our Approach
Fig 3 presents the overview of our approach . The input of our algorithm is a set of photos for a brand of interest .
Let I = {I1,··· , IN} be the set of input images , where N is the number of images . As shown in Fig 3.(b ) , our first step is to build a K nearest neighbor ( KNN ) graph G = ( I,E ) in which each image is connected with its K most similar images in I . We will present our image descriptors in section 3.1 , similarity measures in section 3.2 , and KNN graph construction in section 33 The next step is to perform exemplar detection and clustering on the graph G , which will be discussed in section 34 Its goal is to discover a small set of representative images called exemplars A(⊂ I ) , and to partition I so that each image is associated with its closest exemplar , as shown in Fig 3(c ) Therefore , the clusters are the groups of contextually and visually similar images , and the exemplars are the most prototypical images of the clusters .
The clustering helps discover the coherent groups of images from extremely diverse Web images , which is beneficial to detect the regions of a brand in the images ( see examples in Fig 3(d ) ) In our setting , the brand localization is formulated as the problem of cosegmentation [ 14 , 15 ] , which has been actively studied in image segmentation research . Its goal is to simultaneously segment out recurring objects or foregrounds across the multiple images . Obviously , the images in the same cluster are likely to share the same themes of the brand ( eg bags in Fig 3.(d) ) , which can be discovered by the cosegmentation approach . We summarize the procedure of cosegmentation in section 35
In our closed loop approach , the segmentation can enhance the exemplar detection/clustering by promoting a more accurate image similarity measure , which will be justified in section 3.2 with an intuitive example . Hence , after finishing the cosegmentation step , we can return to the KNN graph construction and repeat the whole algorithm again with the new segmentation based image similarity metric .
The brand association map like Fig 1 can be constructed from the exemplar detection/clustering output . The algorithm will be presented in section 4 .
3 . APPROACH 3.1 Feature Extraction
For image description , we use one of common practices in recent computer vision research : the dense feature extraction with vector quantization . We densely extract two most popular features from each image : HSV color SIFT and histogram of oriented edge ( HOG ) feature on a regular grid at steps of 4 and 8 pixels , respectively . Then , we form 300 visual words for each feature type by applying K means to randomly selected features . Finally , the nearest word is assigned to every node of the grid . We use publicly available codes1 for the whole process of feature extraction . 3.2 One prerequisite to accurate clustering is an appropriate similarity measure between images , denoted by σ : I × I → R . We assert that even imperfect segmentation helps enhance the measurement of image similarity , which can justify our closed loop approach . Fig 4 shows a typical example , in which the two images are similar in that both include persons with glasses of Guinness beer . For an unsegmented 1The SIFT and HOG feature extraction codes are available at http://wwwvlfeatorg , and at http://wwwcsbrown edu/∼pff/latent , respectively .
Image Similarity Measure
Figure 2 : The dataset of 48 brands crawled from five photo sharing sites of Table 1 . The brands are classified into four categories : ( a ) luxury , ( b ) sports , ( c ) beer , and ( d ) fastfood . The total number of images is 4,720,724 .
Figure 3 : The overview of the proposed approach with an example of the Louis+Vuitton . ( a ) As an input , we crawl the photos of the brand from the five photo sharing sites . ( b ) Next , we build a K nearest neighbor ( KNN ) similarity graph between images . ( c ) We perform the graph based exemplar detection/clustering . ( d ) Finally , we cosegment the images in the same cluster in order to discover the regions of a brand in each image . As a closed loop solution , we can return to the KNN graph construction with the new segmentation based image similarity metric . oped to construct approximate KNN graphs with avoiding the quadratic complexity . In this paper , we use the idea of multiple random divide and conquer [ 27 ] , which allows to create an approximate KNN graph of high accuracy in O(N log N ) time . The method is simple : we randomly and recursively partition the dataset into subsets , and build an exact neighborhood graph over each subset . This random divide and conquer process repeats for several times , and then the aggregation of all neighborhood graphs of subsets can create a more accurate approximate KNN graph with a high probability . The details of procedures and theoretic analyses can be found in [ 27 ] . In our experiments , meta data of images are also exploited for recursive random division . We repeat partitioning the image set into subsets according to each type of meta data ( eg image sources , owners , titles , or timestamps , if available ) . For example , in one partition , each subset includes the images taken at similar time ; in another partition , each subset comprises the images owned by the same user . The basic assumption is that if images are taken at similar time or by the same user , they are likely to share similar contents . In our experiments , this heuristics of meta data is efficient and effective to build KNN graphs . 3.4 Exemplar detection and clustering
Given a KNN graph G , our next step is to perform exemplar detection . As a base algorithm , we use the diversity ranking algorithm of [ 15 ] , which can choose L number of exemplars that are not only most central but also distinctive one another , by solving submodular optimization on the similarity graph G . Since the L exemplars are discovered in a decreasing order of ranking scores , one can set L to an arbitrary large number . In this paper , we do not discuss the details of the algorithm , which can be found in [ 15 ] . Instead , we denote the exemplar detection procedure by A = SubmDiv(G , L ) where A is the set of exemplars and
Figure 4 : The benefit of segmentation for image similarity measurement . ( a ) For an unsegmented image pair , the spatial pyramid histograms are constructed on the whole images , which may not correctly reflect the location and scale variations . ( b ) After segmentation , the image similarity is computed as the mean of the best assigned segment similarities . image pair , the image similarity is calculated from two level spatial pyramid histograms on the whole images [ 17 ] , which are not robust against location , scale , and pose variation as shown in Fig 4(a ) On the other hand , as shown in Fig 4.(b ) , this issue can be largely alleviated even with an imperfect segmentation . Given the two sets of segments of the images , we find the best matches between them by solving the linear assignment problem . Then , we compute the image similarity by the mean of similarities between matched segments . For the segment similarity , we use the histogram intersection kernel on the spatial pyramids of the segments . 3.3 Constructing K Nearest Neighbor Graph Given the image descriptors and similarity measures , the construction of a KNN graph is straightforward . However , if we naively compare all pairwise similarity by brute force , it takes O(N 2 ) , which can be prohibitively slow for a large I . Fortunately , a large number of algorithms have been devel
Algorithm 1 : Exemplar detection and clustering .
Input : ( 1 ) Image graph G . ( 2 ) Number of exemplars L . Output : ( 1 ) Exemplar set A and cluster set C . 1 : Append a constant vector z ∈ R(N +1)×1 to the end column of G and zT to the end row of G . ( N = |G| ) . 2 : A = SubmDiv(G , M ) . 3 : {Cl}L /* Select M number of central and diverse exemplars A . Function [ A ] = SubmDiv(G , M ) l=1 = ClustSrc(G , A ) .
1 : A ← ∅ . u = 0 ∈ RN×1 . while |A| ≤ L do
2 : for i = 1 : N do u(i ) = TempSrc(G , {A ∪ i} ) . 3 : A ← A ∪ argmaxi u . Set u = 0 .
/* Get marginal gain u from the G and the node set P . Function [ u ] = TempSrc(G , P )
1 : Solve u = Lu where L is the Laplacian of G under constraints of u(P ) = 1 and u(N + 1 ) = 0 . 2 : Compute the marginal gain u = |u|1 .
/* Get cluster set C from the graph G and exemplars A . Function C = ClustSrc(G , A )
1 : Let L = |A| and L = |G| . V is vertext set of G . 2 : Compute the matrix X ∈ R(L−L)×L by solving LuX = −BT Is where if we let X = V\A , Lu = L(X , X ) , B = L(A , X ) , and Is is an L × L identity matrix . 3 : Each vertex v∈V is clustered cv= argmaxk X(j , k ) .
G ∈ RN×N is the adjacency matrix of the graph G . The pseudocode is summarized in the step 1–2 of Algorithm 1 . Next , the clustering is performed using the random walk model [ 10 ] ; each image i is associated with the exemplar that a random walker starting at i is most likely to reach first . Then , we cluster the images that share the same exemplar as the most probable destination . This procedure is implemented as a function ClustSrc of Algorithm 1 . 3.5 Brand Localization via Cosegmentation As the clustering output , we obtain the groups of coherent images C = {Cl}L l=1 . The brand localization is achieved by separately applying the cosegmentation algorithm to each cluster . This separate cosegmentation scheme is more beneficial not only for parallelization but also for performance . Especially , for performance , it prevents cosegmenting the images of no commonality , which contradicts the basic assumption of cosegmentation algorithms . For instance , given the Prada brand , cosegmenting bag and jewelry images could be worsen than individually segmenting each image .
The goal of cosegmentation is to partition each image into foreground ( ie the regions recurring across the images like bags in Fig 3.(d ) ) and background ( ie the other regions ) . We select the MFC method [ 14 ] as our base cosegmentation algorithm , since it is scalable and has been successfully tested with Flickr user images . The MFC algorithm consists of two procedures , which are foreground modeling and region assignment . The foreground modeling step learns the appearance models for foreground and background , which are accomplished by using any region classifiers or their combinations . We use the Gaussian mixture model ( GMM ) on the RGB color space . The foreground models compute the values of any given regions with respect to the foregrounds and background , based on which the region assignment al
Algorithm 2 : Brand localization via cosegmentation . Input : ( 1 ) Cluster set C = {Cl}L l=1 . ( 2 ) Image graph G . Output : ( 1 ) Set of segmented images F for each i ∈ I . foreach Cl ∈ C do
1 : Find central image c = SubmDiv(Gl , 1 ) where Gl = G(Cl ) is the subgraph of Cl . 2 : Apply the unsupervised MFC algorithm [ 14 ] to {c ∪ Nc} where Nc is the neighbor of c in the graph Gl . As a result , we obtain segmented images Fc∪Nc . 3 : Let Ul ← Cl\{c ∪ Nc} . F ← Fc∪Nc . while Ul = ∅ do
4 : Sample an image i from {Ul ∩ NF} . 5 : Get foreground model {vi} = FM ( {Ni ∩ F} ) . 6 : Segment the image Fi = RA ( i , {vi} ) . 7 : Ul ← Ul\i . F ← F ∪ Fi .
/* {vi} = FM ( Fi ) is the function to learn foreground model {vi} of MFC [ 14 ] from the segmented images Fi . /* Fi = RA ( i , {vi} ) is the function to run region assignment of MFC [ 14 ] on image i using {vi} . locates the regions of an image via a combinatorial auction style optimization to maximize the overall allocation values . More details of the algorithm can be referred to [ 14 ] . For each cluster Cl , we perform the cosegmentation by iteratively applying the foreground modeling and region assignment steps under the guidance of the subgraph G(Cl ) whose vertex set is Cl . Its basic idea is that the neighboring images in G(Cl ) are visually similar , and thus they are likely to share enough commonality to be segmented together . Therefore , we iteratively segment each image i by using the learned foreground models from its neighbors in the graph . Then , the segmented image i is subsequently used to learn the foreground models for its neighbors’ segmentation . That is , we iteratively run foreground modeling and region assignment by following the edges of G(Cl ) . The overall algorithm is summarized in Algorithm 2 . For initialization , as shown in step 1–2 of Algorithm 2 , we run the unsupervised version of the MFC algorithm to the exemplar of Cl and its neighbors , from which the iterative cosegmentation starts .
4 . BRAND ASSOCIATION MAPS
We visualize the clusters ( or exemplars ) in a circular layout in order to concisely represent both short range and long range interactions between them . We place the visual clusters by using two different metrics , the radial distance and angular distance , inspired by the Nielsen ’s method [ 2 ] :
1 . The radial distance of a cluster reflects how strongly it associates with the brand . A larger cluster appears closer to the center of the map .
2 . The angular distance between a cluster pair shows their closeness . The smaller the angular distance between the two is , the higher the correlation is .
Since Nielsen ’s mapping algorithm is unknown and no photo based brand association mapping has been developed yet , we design a new embedding algorithm that satisfies the above requirements . Our objective is to calculate ( r , θ ) ∈ RL×2 , which are the polar coordinates of all clusters of C . Algorithm 3 summarizes the whole mapping procedure .
Radial distances of clusters : According to the requirement 1 , a larger cluster has a smaller radial distance ( ie l=1 . ( b ) Image graph G .
Algorithm 3 : Computing polar coordinates of clusters . Input : ( a ) Cluster set C = {Cl}L ( c ) Image sizes to be drawn t ∈ RL×1 . Output : Polar coordinates ( r , θ ) ∈ RL×2 of C . /* Radial coordinates . */ 1 : Compute transition matrix P by row normalizing G . 2 : Solve Eq ( 1 ) to get stationary distribution π ∈ RN×1 .
3 : foreach Ca ∈ C do compute πa =
π(i ) . 4 : Let πmin = mina∈C πa and πmax = maxa∈C πa . 5 : foreach Ca ∈ C do obtain r(a ) by solving Eq ( 2 ) . /* Angular coordinates . */ 6 : Obtain the cluster similarity S ∈ RL×L from Eq ( 4 ) . 7 : Initialize θ by polar dendrogram of hierarchical clustering on S , J = 0 , Jold = a large number . while |J − Jold| > do ,S(a , b ) − γ|θa − θb|γ−1 G where G = ∂θ J ∈ RL×1 . For each a ∈ C , b S(a , b)|θa − θb| − |θa − θb|γ .
−2(1 − cos(θa − θb))−1/2(− sin θa cos θb + cos θa sin θb ) . 9 : θnew = θ + µ ∂
J = 10 : Jnew =
8 : Calculate ∂
∂θ J . i∈Ca b∈C
∂θa a
∂
11 : Update Jold = J , J = Jnew , θ = θnew .
/* Force directed refinement . */ 12 : Obtain Cartesian coordinates x ∈ RL×2 from ( r , θ ) and a pariwse distance matrix D . Store the original x0 . while x is updated do
13 : Set the displacement vector d = 0 . Set attractive and repulsive forces : fa(x ) = x2/k and fr(x ) = k2/x . foreach pair ( a , b ) if D(a , b ) < γ(t(a ) + t(b ) ) do 15 : foreach a ∈ C do d(a)− = fa(|x(a ) − x0(a)| ) . 16 : foreach a ∈ C do x(a)+ = d(a ) .
14 : d(b)+ = fr(|x(b ) − x(a)| ) .
17 : Obtain the final ( r , θ ) from x . closer to the center ) . In order to estimate the cluster sizes , we first compute the stationary distribution π ∈ RN×1 of the graph G , where π(i ) indicates a random walker ’s visiting probability of node i . We assume that the size of cluster Ca is proportional to the sum of stationary distribution of the nodes in Ca , which means the portion of time that a random walker traversing the graph stays in the cluster Ca . That is , in a larger cluster , a random walker stays longer .
Given the transition matrix P obtained by normalizing the rows of G , the stationary probability vector π can be computed by solving π = PT π with π1 = 1 . However , it is well known from the success of PageRank that a regularized stationary distribution is more robust and can incorporate a prior knowledge ; it can be obtained by solving
π = PT π where P = λP + ( 1 − λ)1vT
( 1 ) where v ∈ RN×1 is the teleporting probability such that vi ≥ 0 , v1 = 1 . It can supply a prior ranking to each node ; without it , one can let v = [ 1/N,··· , 1/N ]T be uniform . 1 is an all one vector , and λ is a regularization parameter to weight the random walker ’s behavior between edge following and random transporting . We set λ = 0.9 in all experiments . Once we have π , then we compute the stationary probability πa of each cluster Ca by summing over the values of π(i ) . Let rmax and rmin be max and min radius of the circular layout , and πmax and πmin be max and min cluster stationary probability , respec vertices in the cluster : πa = i∈Ca tively . Finally , the radial coordinate r(c ) of cluster Ca is r(a ) = rmax − rmin πmax − πmin
( πmax − πa ) + rmin .
( 2 )
Angular coordinates of clusters : In order to obtain the angular coordinates θ of clusters C , we first compute all pairwise similarities S ∈ RL×L between the clusters , and then apply the modified spherical Laplacian Eigenmap technique [ 3 , 4 ] to project the clusters on a circular manifold .
We use the random walk with restart ( RWR ) algorithm [ 25 ] to define the cluster similarity on a graph . The similarity values of all nodes sa with respect to cluster Ca is defined as sa = λPsa + ( 1 − λ)vT a with va(i ) =
1/|Ca| 0 if i ∈ Ca otherwise
( 3 )
The score sa(i ) means the probability that a random walker stays at node i when the walker follows the edge of graph with probability λ and return to uniformly random nodes of cluster Ca with 1 − λ . It is straightforward to compute the similarity score from Ca to Cb , denoted by S(a , b ) , as follows : sa(i)/Sa where Sa = 1 − sa(i ) .
( 4 )
S(a , b ) = i∈Cb i∈Ca
Next , we project the clusters on a unit circle from the S . Our circular embedding is based on the Spherical Laplacian Information Maps ( SLIM ) [ 4 ] , which extends the Laplacian eigenmap ( LEM ) optimization [ 3 ] with an additional constraint of embedding data on the surface of sphere .
Conceptually , if a pair of clusters is similar to each other , then their angular difference in embedding should be small . Hence , the objective is formulated as finding θ to minimize |θa − θb|γ . ( 5 )
S(a , b)|θa − θb| −
θ = argmin a∈C b∈C a∈C b∈C
The LEM objective ( ie the first term of Eq ( 5 ) ) enforces nearby points in the graph to be as close together as possible in the angular representation . However , the optimization using only the LEM objective attains a trivial solution to collapse all data to the same point . Therefore , the regularizer ( ie the second term ) is included in order to spread the embedded clusters on a circle . It leads the optimization to prefer large angular distances between all pairs of clusters . We set the constant γ = 0.5 in our experiments .
Since the optimization problem in Eq ( 5 ) has no closedform solution , we employ a gradient descent procedure , as summarized in step 7–11 of Algorithm 3 . By nature , the final embedding highly depends on the initialization , for which we first perform hierarchical clustering on the S , and then use its polar dendrogram . This initialization enables similar nodes to have small geodesic distances .
Layout refinement : We slightly update the coordinates of clusters ( r , θ ) so that the final visualization is more visually pleasant . More specifically , we separate any pair of exemplars that are too much overlapped , by using Fruchterman and Reingold ’s method , one of popular force directed drawing algorithms . The cluster positions are updated to reach equilibrium states by the attractive and repulsive forces . The attractive forces encourage the updated positions to be as similar to the original ( r , θ ) as possible , while the repulsive forces take part severely overlapped exemplars . This refinement is summarized in step 12–17 of Algorithm 3 .
5 . EXPERIMENTS
In our experiments , we first present the brand association maps for several competing brands in section 51 Then , we quantitatively evaluate the proposed approach from two technical perspectives : exemplar detection/clustering in section 5.2 , and brand localization via image cosegmentation in section 53 Since the main goal of this paper is to achieve the two technical visualization tasks for brand associations , we focus on validating the algorithmic performance over other candidate methods instead of user study . Finally , we examine the correlation between our findings from community photos and the actual sales data of brands in section 54 We plan to make public our MATLAB code .
5.1 Visualization of Brand Association Maps We present the brand association maps of six competing brands of the luxury category in Fig 5 . We show top 20 exemplars ( ie cluster centers ) in the map . We make several interesting observations as follows . First of all , our algorithm successfully discovers brands’ characteristic visual themes ( eg watch clusters in the Rolex and the iconic check patterns of the Burberry ) . Second , much of highly ranked clusters attribute to some specific scenes where photo taking is preferred . For example , in the Rolex , the clusters of horseriding and auto racing events that are sponsored by the Rolex are as dominant as those of its main product watches . Such event topics are more favorable to be recorded as pictures rather than texts . In the Louis+Vuitton , there are lots of wedding related clusters , which makes sense because the wedding is not only an event where the products of luxury brands are purchased much , but also a memorable moment where the photos are taken a lot .
Although our photo based brand association map is novel and promising , there are several issues to be explored further . First , we may need to correctly handle highly redundant or noisy clusters , which are mainly caused by the imperfection of image processing and clustering . Second , we also need to deal with polysemous brand names ; for example , the Mont+Blanc is also the name of the mountain , and the Corona indicates the astronomical phenomenon as well . If we use additional keywords during image crawling to filter them out , the volume of retrieved images decreases severely .
5.2 Results on Clustering
Task : We evaluate the performance of our algorithm for the exemplar detection/clustering task , by comparing with several candidate methods . For quantitative evaluation , we first choose 20 brands ( ie five brands per category ) , and generate 100 sets of groundtruth per brand as follows . We randomly sample three images ( i , j , k ) from the image set of a brand , and manually label which of j and k is more similar to image i . We denote j k|i if j is more similar to i than k . Although the labeled sets are relatively few compared to the dataset size , in practice this sampling based annotation is commonly adopted in standard large scale benchmark datasets such as ImageNet [ 7 ] and LabelMe [ 22 ] .
After applying each algorithm , suppose that Ci , Cj , and Ck denote the clusters that include image i , j , and k , respectively . Then , we compute the similarity between clusters σ(Cj , Ci ) and σ(Ck , Ci ) by using the RWR algorithm in section 4 . Finally , we compute the accuracy of the algorithm using the Wilcoxon–Mann–Whitney statistics :
( i,j,k )
ACC :=
I(j k|i ∧ σ(Cj , Ci ) > σ(Ck , Ci ) )
I(j k|i )
( i,j,k )
( 6 ) where I is an indicator function . The accuracy increases only if the algorithm can partition the image set into coherent clusters , and the similarities between clusters coincide well with human ’s judgment on the image similarity .
Baselines : We compare our algorithm with four baselines . The ( KMean ) and the ( Spect ) are the two popular clustering methods , K means and spectral clustering , respectively . The ( LP ) is a label propagation algorithm for community detection [ 20 ] , and the ( AP ) is the affinity propagation [ 8 ] , which is a message passing based clustering algorithm . Our algorithm is tested in two different ways , according to whether image segmentation is in a loop or not . The ( Sub ) does not exploit the image cosegmentation output , whereas the ( Sub M ) is our fully geared approach . That is , this comparison can justify the usefulness of our alternating approach between clustering and cosegmentation . We set L = 300 , and use the same image features in section 3.1 for all the algorithms .
Quantitative results : Fig 6 reports the results of our algorithm and four baselines across 20 brand classes . The leftmost bar set is the average accuracies of 20 classes . In most brand classes , the accuracies of our method ( Sub M ) are better than those of all the baselines . The average accuracy of our ( Sub M ) is 62.0 % , which is much higher than 51.7 % of the best baseline ( AP ) . In addition , the average accuracies of the ( Sub M ) are notably better than ( Sub ) , which implicates that the cosegmentation for brand localization can improve the clustering performance as expected . 5.3 Results on Brand Localization
Task : The brand localization task is evaluated as follows . As groundtruths , we manually annotate 50 randomly sampled images per brand , for the same 20 brands in the previous experiments . We do not label too obvious images depicting products on white background , since they cannot correctly measure the performances of algorithms . The accuracy is measured by the intersection over union metric ( GTi ∩ Ri)/(GTi ∪ Ri ) , where GTi is the groundtruth of image i and Ri is the regions segmented by the algorithm . It is a standard metric in segmentation literature [ 14 , 15 ] . We compute the average accuracy from all annotated images .
Baselines : We select two baselines that can discover and segment the regions of objects from a large number of images in an unsupervised manner ( ie with no labeled seed images ) . The ( LDA ) [ 21 ] is an LDA based unsupervised localization method , and the ( COS ) [ 15 ] is a state of art submodular optimization based cosegmentation algorithm . Our algorithm is tested in three different versions , according to whether exemplar detection/clustering is in a loop or not . The ( MFC ) runs our cosegmentation without involving our clustering output ( but using a random partitioning instead ) , in order to show the importance of the clustering step when segmenting highly diverse Web images . The ( MFC S ) is a single loop of our exemplar detection/clustering and cosegmentation , and ( MFC M ) iterates this process more than twice . In almost all cases , it converges in two iterations . Hence , this comparison can quantify the accuracy increase by the iterative algorithm . We run all algorithms in an unsupervised way for a fair comparison . Since it is hard to know the best
Figure 5 : Examples of brand association maps for six brands of the luxury category .
Figure 6 : Clustering accuracies of two variants of our approach ( Sub * ) and four baselines for the 20 selected brands . The average accuracies over the 20 brands , shown in the leftmost bar set , are ( Sub M ) : 62.0 % , ( Sub ) : 57.8 % , ( Kmean ) : 50.5 % , ( Spect ) : 49.2 % , ( LP ) : 51.4 % , and ( AP ) : 517 % number of foregrounds K in advance ( eg multiple foregrounds may exist in each image ) , we repeat each method by changing K from one to five , and report the best results . Quantitative results : Fig 7 shows that our method outperforms other candidate methods in almost all classes . Especially , our average accuracy is 49.5 % , which is notably higher than 36.7 % of the best baseline ( COS ) . In addition , the average accuracy of the ( MFC M ) is also higher than those of ( MFC S ) and ( MFC ) , which demonstrates that the clustering and cosegmentation are mutually rewarding .
Qualitative analysis : Fig 8 shows six sets of brand localization examples . The images of each set belong to the same cluster , and thus are cosegmented . We observe that the subjects of pictures and their appearances severely vary even though they are associated with the same brands . However , our approach is able to quickly cluster a large scale image set and segment common regions in an unsupervised and bottom up way , which can be an useful function for various Web applications , including detecting regions of brand for online multimedia advertisement .
5.4 Correlation with Sales Data
Since our work is the first attempt on exploring online photo collections for brand associations , we additionally report the statistics of correlations between image data and sales data of the brands . We conduct two different comparisons . First , we observe how the photo volumes of brands are correlated with their market shares . For example , the average annual revenue of the Nike is higher than that of the Adidas by about 40 % from 2006 to 2011 . We examine whether the Nike is also dominant over the Adidas in the volumes of Web photos . Second , we study in depth correlation between the product groups of each brand . For example , the annual reports of the Louis+Vuitton classify their business into several product groups such as leather goods , perfume , jewelry , and wine . We compare between the proportions of product groups in image data and sales data of the brand . We obtain the sales data from the annual reports that are publicly available on the companies’ webpages . We ignore the brands held by private companies ( eg Chanel ) , because it is often hard to know accurate financial information . In this analysis , we use image and sales data from 2006 to 2011 .
Figure 7 : Brand localization accuracies of three variants of our approach ( MFC * ) and two baselines . The average accuracies of the leftmost bar set are ( MFC M ) : 49.5 % , ( MFC S ) : 46.8 % , ( MFC ) : 41.7 % , ( COS ) : 36.7 % , and ( LDA ) : 306 %
Figure 8 : Six groups of brand localization examples . We sample four or five images per group that belong to the same cluster , and thus are jointly segmented . We show input images ( top ) and their segmentation output ( bottom ) .
Correlation between photo volumes and market shares : Fig 9 shows the proportions of photo volumes and market shares for the brands per category . The ranking of the brands in the two data types are roughly similar , but the percentages do not agree each other because the preferred scenes or situations of photo taking are different from those of product purchase . For example , the Guinness has a larger percentage value in the photo volume than in the sales thanks to its positioning as premium beer . On the contrary , Taco+Bell occupies a small portion of photo volumes . It may be because the Taco+Bell is a cheap fastfood brand , which hardly attracts people to take pictures for the brand . Correlation between product groups : Now we turn to the comparison between product groups in each brand . The main challenge here is that it is difficult for both human and computers to correctly classify millions of images into the predefined product groups . For human , the data size is too large to manually classify them . For computers , there is no classifier applicable to noisy Web images with high accuracies . Thus , we take advantage of our exemplar detection/clustering results . We manually classify each exemplar into one of predefined groups , and all the images in the same cluster are labeled as the same . The classification of product groups is based on the brand ’s annual reports .
Fig 10 shows the results of product group analysis for four luxury brands . We first label exemplar images by one of three groups : product , company , and personal . The product group comprises the photos whose main contents are the products of the brand . The company group includes the images that are directly relevant to the brand not to any particular products . It consists of four subgroups : advertisement , logo , shop , and event . The final one is the per sonal group for the private pictures whose contents are not explicitly associated with brands .
We summarize several observations as follows . First , in most brands , the personal group is the first or second largest one , which may result from that people usually take pictures on personal matters . Second , the company group is also very popular ; for examples , people are interested in luxurious Louis+Vuitton ’s stores as much as its products . Moreover , the events hosted by brands are also popularly taken such as fashion shows , music concerts , and sports activities . Third , in the product group , one or two leading product types take the majority of photo volumes while some product segments like wines , perfume , and jewelry rarely appear .
6 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we addressed a problem of visualizing the brand associations by leveraging large scale online photo collections . We developed a novel approach to jointly performing exemplar detection/clustering and brand localization in a mutually rewarding way . With the experiments of about five millions of images for 48 brands , we have shown the superiority of our approach for the two visualization tasks over other candidate methods . The empirical results assured that our method can be a fundamental component to achieve our ultimate goal : inferring in depth brand associations from Web images , which is a next direction of our future work .
7 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] D . A . Aaker . Measuring Brand Equity Across Products and
Markets . Cal . Manag . Rev . , 38(3):102–120 , 1996 .
[ 2 ] N . Akiva , E . Greitzer , Y . Krichman , and J . Schler . Mining and Visualizing Online Web Content Using BAM : Brand
Figure 9 : Comparison between the market shares ( left ) and the portions of photo volumes ( right ) for the brands of four categories : ( a ) luxury , ( b ) sports , ( c ) beer , and ( d ) fastfood . The numbers indicate percentage values .
Figure 10 : Results of the product group analysis for four luxury brands . Each pie chart shows the proportions of three groups in the image volume : product , company , and personal . In the bottom , the images of the company group are further classified into one of advertisement , logo , shop , and event . In the right , bar charts show the proportions of the images ( top ) and the actual revenues ( bottom ) for the product group . The classification of product groups is based on the brand ’s annual reports . The numbers indicate percentage values .
Association Map . In ICWSM , 2008 .
[ 3 ] M . Belkin and P . Niyogi . Laplacian Eigenmaps for
Dimensionality Reduction and Data Representation . neural computation , 15(6):1373–1396 , 2003 .
[ 4 ] K . M . Carter , R . Raich , and A . O . Hero . Spherical laplacian information maps ( slim ) for dimensionality reduction . In SSP , 2009 .
[ 5 ] A . C . H . Chen . Using Free Association to Examine the
Relationship between the Characteristics of Brand Associations and Brand Equity . J . Product Brand Management , 10(7):439–451 , 2001 .
[ 6 ] J . E . Danes , J . S . Hess , J . W . Story , and J . L . York . Brand
Image Associations for Large Virtual Groups . Qualitative Market Research , 13(3):309–323 , 2010 .
[ 7 ] J . Deng , W . Dong , R . Socher , L J Li , K . Li , and
L . Fei Fei . ImageNet : A Large Scale Hierarchical Image Database . In CVPR , 2009 .
[ 16 ] J . Kleban , X . Xie , and W Y Ma . Spatial Pyramid Mining for Logo Detection in Natural Scenes . In ICME , 2008 . [ 17 ] S . Lazebnik , C . Schmid , and J . Ponce . Beyond Bags of
Features : Spatial Pyramid Matching for Recognizing Natural Scene Categories . In CVPR , 2006 .
[ 18 ] D . L . Nelson , C . L . McEvoy , and T . A . Schreiber . The
University of South Florida Free Association , Rhyme , and Word Fragment Norms . Behavior Research Methods , Instruments , Computers , 36(3):402–407 , 2004 . [ 19 ] Nielsen Online . Brand Association Map , 2010 . [ 20 ] U . N . Raghavan , R . Albert , and S . Kumara . Near Linear
Time Algorithm to Detect Community Structures in Large Scale Networks . Phys Rev E , 76(036106 ) , 2007 . [ 21 ] B . C . Russell , A . Efros , J . Sivic , W . T . Freeman , and
A . Zisserman . Using multiple segmentations to discover objects and their extent in image collections . In CVPR , 2006 .
[ 8 ] B . J . Frey and D . Dueck . Clustering by Passing Messages
[ 22 ] B . C . Russell , A . Torralba , K . P . Murphy , and W . T .
Between Data Points . Science , 315:972–976 , 2007 .
[ 9 ] K . Gao , S . Lin , Y . Zhang , S . Tang , and D . Zhang . Logo
Detection Based on Spatial Spectral Saliency and Partial Spatial Context . In ICME , 2009 .
[ 10 ] L . Grady . Random Walks for Image Segmentation . IEEE
PAMI , 28:1768–1783 , 2006 .
[ 11 ] Y . Jing and S . Baluja . PageRank for Product Image
Search . In WWW , 2008 .
[ 12 ] H . Kang , M . Hebert , A . A . Efros , and T . Kanade .
Connecting Missing Links : Object Discovery from Sparse Observations Using 5 Million Product Images . In ECCV , 2012 .
[ 13 ] K . L . Keller . Conceptualizing , Measuring , and Managing Customer Based Brand Equity . J . Marketing , 57(1):1–22 , 1993 .
[ 14 ] G . Kim and E . P . Xing . On Multiple Foreground
Cosegmentation . In CVPR 2012 , 2012 .
[ 15 ] G . Kim , E . P . Xing , L . Fei Fei , and T . Kanade . Distributed
Cosegmentation via Submodular Optimization on Anisotropic Diffusion . In ICCV 2011 , 2011 .
Freeman . LabelMe : A Database and Web based Tool for Image Annotation . IJCV , 77:157–173 , 2008 .
[ 23 ] S . Sanyal and S . H . Srinivasan . LogoSeeker : A System for
Detecting and Matching Logos in Natural Images . In ACM MM , 2007 .
[ 24 ] O . Schnittka , H . Sattler , and S . Zenker . Advanced Brand
Concept Maps : A New Approach for Evaluating the Favorability of Brand Association Networks . I . J . Research in Marketing , 2012 .
[ 25 ] J . Sun , H . Qu , D . Chakrabarti , and C . Faloutsos .
Neighborhood Formation and Anomaly Detection in Bipartite Graphs . In ICDM , 2005 .
[ 26 ] B . D . Till , D . Baack , and B . Waterman . Strategic Brand Association Maps : Developing Brand Insight . J . Product Brand Management , 20(2):92–100 , 2011 .
[ 27 ] J . Wang , J . Wang , G . Zeng , Z . Tu , R . Gan , and S . Li .
Scalable k NN Graph Construction for Visual Descriptors . In CVPR , 2012 .
[ 28 ] K . Yamaguchi , M . H . Kiapour , L . E . Ortiz , and T . L . Berg . Parsing Clothing in Fashion Photographs . In CVPR , 2012 .
