Travel the World : Analyzing and Predicting
Booking Behavior using E mail Travel Receipts
Nemanja Djuric† , Mihajlo Grbovic† , Vladan Radosavljevic† ,
Jaikit Savla‡ , Varun Bhagwan‡ , Doug Sharp‡
{nemanja , mihajlo , vladan , jaikit , vbhagwan , dsharp}@yahoo inc.com
†Yahoo Labs , Sunnyvale , CA , USA
‡Yahoo Inc . , Sunnyvale , CA , USA
ABSTRACT Tourism industry has grown tremendously in the previous several decades . Despite its global impact , there still remain a number of open questions related to better understanding of tourists and their habits . In this work we analyze the largest data set of travel receipts considered thus far , and focus on exploring and modeling booking behavior of online customers . We extract useful , actionable insights into the booking behavior , and tackle the task of predicting the booking time . The presented results can be directly used to improve booking experience of customers and optimize targeting campaigns of travel operators .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Tourism and hospitality sectors have witnessed enormous growth in the past century . Originating as a pastime of the wealthy , only very recently technological advances and global economic progress have brought traveling for leisure closer to nearly all layers of the society [ 5 ] . The rise from modest beginnings has been astounding , and today tourism accounts for nearly 10 % of the world ’s gross domestic product , employing more than 277 million people worldwide [ 7 ] . The upward trend is projected to continue in the future at unabated rates , further highlighting the impact and the importance of the thriving industry .
Given such deep economic footprint , it is highly beneficial to understand customers’ behavior in order to satisfy the growing demand . A number of challenging problems has brought attention of researchers , who proposed diverse approaches towards painting a clearer picture of a modern tourist . More specifically , in [ 3 ] authors focus on understanding how tourists make their travel plans , while authors of [ 2 ] tackle the task of profiling of hotel patrons and learning actionable behavioral patterns using rule mining . In the absence of travel data , some studies attempt to recreate travel information using online photos and other resources [ 8 ] .
In addition to modeling tourist behavior when they are already on the road , understanding decision process that led to booking of the trip is equally important , as it allows tourist companies to actively influence decisions of a potential customer at its source through better ad targeting [ 4 ] . For example , effect of online reviews on booking decisions is explored in [ 6 ] , while [ 1 ] analyzes impact of information
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’16 Companion , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . ACM 978 1 4503 4144 8/16/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/28725182889410
Figure 1 : Distribution of a ) check in ; and b ) booking days overload . However , such studies mostly rely on surveys comprising few hundred examples , limiting their generality . We address this issue , and explore booking behavior of millions of online customers by mining their travel receipts .
2 . ANALYSIS OF BOOKING BEHAVIOR
We collected more than 25 million travel receipts , received by a subset of Yahoo Mail users from January through April , 2015 . We considered flight , hotel , and car rental receipts , for which we extracted booking timestamp , travel ( for flights ) and check in and check out dates ( for hotels and rentals ) . The data was anonymized ( users were assigned random IDs ) . First , let us consider weekly distribution of check in and booking days . In Figure 1a we can see that the largest number of hotel check ins and rental pick ups happens on Fridays and Saturdays , while flights had largely uniform distribution . On the other hand , as seen in Figure 1b , the largest number of bookings for hotels and rentals is made on Mondays , and on Tuesdays for flights . The least number of bookings in all cases is made on Fridays . Another interesting finding was a huge increase in hotel check ins on Valentine ’s day ( not shown ) , more than 2 times higher number than rates one week before or after . Curiously , we did not see the corresponding increase in flights and rentals , implying that most of these hotel stays were local . 2.1 Analysis of individual channels
We take a closer look at the booking channels independently . In Figure 2a we analyze airline booking times segregated by companies . Around 22 % of flights are booked within one week ahead of the trip . However , when we take a look at each company individually , this fluctuates from 10 % for RyanAir to 35 % for US Airways . The results suggests that customers plan further ahead for lower cost companies which often have special deals and promotions in such cases . For hotels , we can see that there is a significant difference between short term ( less than 7 days ) and long term stay ( 7 days and more ) in terms of number of days the rooms are booked in advance . For short term stay nearly 40 % of
Figure 2 : Cumulative distribution of receipts with respect to days booked in advance : a ) flights ; b ) hotels ; c ) rentals
( a ) Hotel vs . flight
( c ) Rental vs . flight Figure 3 : Number of days between coupled bookings from different channels
( b ) Rental vs . hotel all bookings are made within one week in advance , while for long term stay the percentage drops to 15 % . In other words , customers are planning more in advance for longer , more expensive stays . We also observe jumps in the number of bookings 60 days in advance , which could be explained by black out windows imposed by some loyalty programs .
Lastly , we see that more than 45 % of rentals are booked within 7 days from car pick up date . This grows to 70 % one month prior to pick up , indicating that rentals are planned much less ahead than either flights or hotels . 2.2 Analysis of cross channel correlation
Next we analyzed time difference between bookings from different channels made for the same trip , where the bookings were deemed part of the same trip if the check in times are within 24 hours . We only considered trips where the difference between booking dates and check in date is longer than 30 days , in order to avoid the effect of late purchases which would bias the bookings to be temporally close . The results are given in Figure 3 , where x axis shows number of days between bookings from two different channels .
By considering the three subfigures , we can see that the majority of two channel bookings are made within 10 days from each other . Moreover , we can conclude that when users are booking more than one channel for a single trip ( eg , booking a flight in addition to hotel , or rental in addition to flight ) , they are mostly purchasing them in the order “ flight → hotel → rental ” , going from higher demand toward smaller demand channels . Interestingly , this conclusion is also confirmed by Figure 2 , where 50 % of flights are booked around 30 days in advance , 50 % of short term hotel stays around 20 days in advance , while half of car rentals are booked 10 days in advance . These insights are of great importance to booking agencies ( eg , they provide guidance on how and when to target users that already booked a flight ) .
3 . PREDICTING BOOKING BEHAVIOR
In this section we turn our attention to behavior prediction task . In particular , we predict when a user will book a rental given they already booked a flight . We cast the problem as a classification task and predict labels “ <5
Table 1 : Predicting rental time given flight booking
Method
Rel . accuracy improv .
Most frequent Age gender bucket Logistic regression
0 % 14 % 23 % days ” , “ 6 10 ” , “ 11 20 ” , “ 21 40 ” , and “ >41 or never ” , while we used age , gender , and past bookings in each channel as features . We trained logistic regression ( we split the data into equally sized training and test sets ) , and compared to baselines that predict most frequent label and most frequent label in age gender groups ( age buckets were set to “ <26 ” , “ 26 40 ” , “ >40 ” ) . The results are given in Table 1 , where we see that the proposed approach outperformed the baselines .
4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] K . Matzler and M . Waiguny . Consequences of customer confusion in online hotel booking . Information and communication technologies in tourism 2005 , pages 306–317 , 2005 .
[ 2 ] H . Min , H . Min , and A . Emam . A data mining approach to developing the profiles of hotel customers . International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management , 14(6):274–285 , 2002 .
[ 3 ] M . Oppermann . A model of travel itineraries . Journal of Travel Research , 33(4):57–61 , 1995 .
[ 4 ] ˚A . Rudstr¨om and P . Fagerberg . Socially enhanced travel booking : a case study . Information Technology & Tourism , 6(3):211–221 , 2003 .
[ 5 ] E . Sezgin and M . Yolal . Golden Age of Mass Tourism :
Its History and Development . InTech , 2012 .
[ 6 ] B . A . Sparks and V . Browning . The impact of online reviews on hotel booking intentions and perception of trust . Tourism Management , 32(6):1310–1323 , 2011 .
[ 7 ] World Travel & Tourism Council . Economic impact of travel & tourism . Technical report , 2015 .
[ 8 ] Y T Zheng , Z J Zha , and T S Chua . Mining travel patterns from geotagged photos . ACM Trans . on Intelligent Systems and Technology , 3(3):56 , 2012 .
