Structure and Dynamics of Signed Citation Networks
Srijan Kumar
University of Maryland srijan@csumdedu
ABSTRACT Citations are important to track and understand the evolution of human knowledge . At the same time , it is widely accepted that all the citations made in a paper are not equal . However , there is no thorough understanding of how citations are created that explicitly criticize or endorse others . In this paper , we do a detailed study of such citations made within the NLP community by differentiating citations into endorsement ( positive ) , criticism ( negative ) and neutral categories . We analyse this signed network created between papers and between authors for the first time from a social networks perspective . We make many observations – we find that the citations follow a heavy tailed distribution and they are created in a way that follows weak balance theory and status theories . Moreover , we find that authors do not change their opinion towards others over time and rarely reciprocate the opinion that they receive . Overall , the paper builds the understanding of the structure and dynamics of positive , negative and neutral citations . 1 .
INTRODUCTION
Citations help to connect and contrast new research with the already known information . It provides an easy way to track the progress and evolution of the knowledge in a particular domain . While citations a provide measure to quantify the impact of research and researchers , it is also widely accepted that all the citations made in a paper are not equal [ 8 ] . However , there is a lack of understanding about the dynamics of creation of various type of citations over time , and how social factors affect it . Existing research looks at each citation in isolation . However , this does not happen in practice as there are many social and scholarly constraints that play a factor while creating any citation . Therefore , modeling these factors efficiently is important to better understand the working of the scientific community in general .
In this paper , we take a look at the dynamics behind creation of various citation sentiments endorsement or “ positive ” citations , criticism or “ negative ” citations and neutral citations , from both the papers’ and authors’ perspective . We model them as directed and signed networks . Particularly , we look at the distribution of these citations and the triads they create in the paper citation network , and also at the change and reciprocity of sentiment of authors towards each other in the author citation network .
A very recent paper has studied the role of negative citations in the Immunology literature [ 3 ] , but they do not look at the dynamics of the creation of such citations and the evolution of these networks . Researchers have previously studied dynamics of citation networks [ 6 ] , but never from signed networks perspective . 2 . CREATING SIGNED CITATION NETWORK
In this section , we will describe how we create the signed paper and author citation networks . We use the full text of 3877 articles from the field of Computational Linguistics , that are part of ACL Anthology Reference Corpus ( ACL ARC ) [ 2 ] . Since finding the relevant context of each citation is still an open problem , we only Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’16 Companion , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . ACM 978 1 4503 4144 8/16/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/28725182889391
Figure 1 : Histograms for the in and out edge distributions for the paper citation network , drawn on log log scale . All types of in edge distributions follow a power law distribution ( alpha coefficient in bracket ) , while outgoing edge distributions do not . use the citing sentence in order to determine each citation sentiment . After this , we find 25,354 citations between the articles , and only consider these citations for our analysis .
To classify the citation sentiment into positive , negative or neutral , we use a simple , yet powerful , keyword based technique to classify the citation sentiment.1 We use the list of positive and negative words from [ 10 ] , which was used as a part of opinion finding system . We manually filtered 173 words that resulted in lots of misclassification of the ground truth citation sentiments , as given in [ 1 ] . Each citing sentence is then classified as positively ( negatively ) citing if it has atleast one positive ( negative ) word and no negative ( positive ) words . All sentences that are not in either of these categories are assigned a neutral category . Among the 25,354 citations , 2182 ( 8.6 % ) are classified as negative , 5258 ( 20.7 % ) positive and remaining 17,914 ( 70.5 % ) as neutral . The labelled dataset with the keywords is available for download at the project website.2 We also create an author citation network from the paper citation network , which represents the sentiment of authors towards each other . The nodes in this network are authors . The edges are created from each author of the citing paper to each author of the cited paper , with the same sign as the sign between the papers . A pair of authors can have multiple edges between them , one for each paper by one that cites the other . This author citation network has 7,495 authors and 174,448 edges . It has 37,047 ( 21.2 % ) positive , 14,812 ( 8.5 % ) negative and 122,635 ( 70.3 % ) neutral edges . 3 . ANALYSIS OF SIGNED NETWORKS
In this section , we look at a few key observations from the signed paper citation and author citation networks . Power law distribution of citations : As we observe in both the networks , negative citations form a very small fraction of the total number of citations . This may be because of explicitly criticizing another paper may have negative impact , and therefore , mentioned more subtly . Positive citations occur twice as frequently as negative ones , indicating that papers tend to explicitly praise prior research that they build on . We also observe that majority of the citations are neutral .
1We first implemented the supervised learning framework based on features derived from citation text as described in [ 1 ] , but it classified all citations into the same class , so we could not use it . 2Project website : http://csumdedu/~srijan/citations/
100101102103Number of incoming edges100101102103104Number of nodesAll ( 187)Neutral(182)Pos ( 15)Neg ( 1.5)100101102Number of outgoing edges100101102103104Number of nodes and neutral indicate lower and equal status , respectively ) . Then according to status theory , triads are created such that edge signs conform to the status . We find that citations are created such that balance and status theories are followed . Authors rarely reciprocate sentiment : Now , we briefly look at a couple of key observations from the signed author citation network . We want to understand whether authors express similar sentiment towards each other . So , we calculate the average author sentiment by averaging the multiple sentiment from one to other . There are 13,383 author pairs with that cite each other . We find that the Pearson Correlation Coefficient ρ of the sentiment value of author A towards B and from B to A is only 0.277 ( p value = 1.82× 10−131 ) . This value is very low , indicating that authors do not reciprocate the sentiment they receive from another author . First opinion is the average opinion : Here we try to understand the relation between the first sentiment created by an author towards other and their average sentiment . The intuition is to infer how much the opinion of an author changes towards another compared to his/her first opinion towards them . For all 26,641 authors that cite another one more than once , we find that the opinion does not change much ( ρ=0.82 , p value=00 ) Therefore , one would expect consistent citations between two authors over the years . 4 . CONCLUSION
In this paper , we try to understand the dynamics of the formation of positive , negative and neutral citations in citation networks . We create and analyse paper and author citation networks for the first time as directed signed network . We make many interesting observations . We find that the incoming edges follow power law distribution , while outgoing edges do not . Citations are created in a way that follows weak balance theory and status theory . Moreover , we find that authors do not change their opinion towards others over time and rarely reciprocate the sentiment they receive . Overall , the paper builds the understanding of how positive , negative and neutral citations are created and its social dynamics .
The current study can be improved and extended in many directions . Advanced NLP techniques can be used to infer the sentiment of citations , instead of the simplistic keyword based technique currently used , and citation context can be incorporated . The results of this paper can be used in various tasks , such as to create robust citation metrics , enhanced citation classification functions and realistic citation network evolution model .
Acknowledgements . Parts of this work were supported by ARO grants W911NF11103 , W911NF1410358 , and W911NF09102 . We thank Prof . Amol Deshpande for the helpful discussions . 5 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] A . Athar . Sentiment analysis of citations using sentence structure based features . In Proceedings of the ACL 2011 student session , 2011 .
[ 2 ] S . Bird . The acl anthology reference corpus : A reference dataset for bibliographic research in computational linguistics . LREC , 2008 .
[ 3 ] C . Catalini , N . Lacetera , and A . Oettl . The incidence and role of negative citations in science . PNAS , 112(45):13823–13826 , 2015 .
[ 4 ] T . Chakraborty , S . Sikdar , N . Ganguly , and A . Mukherjee . Citation interactions among computer science fields : a quantitative route to the rise and fall of scientific research . Social Network Analysis and Mining , 4(1):1–18 , 2014 .
[ 5 ] J . A . Davis . Structural balance , mechanical solidarity , and interpersonal relations . American Journal of Sociology , pages 444–462 , 1963 .
[ 6 ] Y H Eom and S . Fortunato . Characterizing and modeling citation dynamics .
PLoS One , 2011 .
[ 7 ] J . Leskovec , D . Huttenlocher , and J . Kleinberg . Signed networks in social media . In ACM SIGCHI , 2010 .
[ 8 ] M . J . Moravcsik and P . Murugesan . Some results on the function and quality of citations . Social studies of science , 5(1):86–92 , 1975 .
[ 9 ] J . Tang , X . Hu , and H . Liu . Is distrust the negation of trust ? : the value of distrust in social media . In 25th ACM conference on Hypertext and social media , 2014 .
[ 10 ] T . Wilson , J . Wiebe , and P . Hoffmann . Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase level sentiment analysis . In ACL HLT EMNLP , 2005 .
Figure 2 : This figure shows all the prominent triads in the paper citation network , when a paper i cites two papers j and k , after j already cites k . The labels +,− and n represent positive , negative and neutral citations , respectively . The figure shows that in most cases , i creates the same citation towards both papers and that weak balance and status theories are followed .
Let us look at the distribution of the edges in the paper citation network . Figures 1(a ) and 1(b ) show the histogram of the total ( without sign ) , positive , negative and neutral incoming and outgoing edges of all the nodes in the network . It is very interesting to note that the distributions for all the four types of incoming edges individually follow a power law distribution . The alpha coefficient of the fit is shown within the figure . Similar observation was made for total incoming edges in the DBLP network [ 4 ] , and for incoming positive and negative edges in other signed networks such as Slashdot and Epinion [ 9 ] . The distribution for the negative and positive citations have the most negative slope , indicating a decreased tendency of papers to receive many explicit negative or positive citations . At the same time , out edges do not follow power law distribution , possibly due to the limited number of references that are given in each paper . Citation network follows weak balance and status theories : Here we look at triads , one of the major building blocks of networks , to understand how citations are created over time . Since citations can only be formed to papers published earlier chronologically , only transitive triads can be formed between three papers , i , j and k , as follows – first j cites another paper k , and then i cites both j and k . There are 8,313 triads out of a total of 60,454 possible triads in the paper citation network .
There are many possible configurations of the triads when the citation sentiment is considered . However , only a few of them happen to be created prominently in practice . To find them , we compare the frequency of occurrence of each type of triad with its random baseline distribution – the ones that occur more ( less ) frequently in practice than random are stable ( unstable ) in the network and social factors bias towards ( against ) creating such triads . The random baseline frequencies are found by randomly distributing the signs in the citation network multiple times while keeping the endpoint of edges fixed ( 10,000 times in our case ) and calculating the 95 % confidence interval of the frequency of each triad . When the actual number of triads of a particular type lies above the interval , then the triad is over represented and it is prominent in the network . Figure 2 shows these triads in the paper citation network .
Looking at the prominent triads , we observe that whenever paper i creates an edge to both papers j and k , its sentiment towards both of them is same , in most cases . Moreover , all the triads satisfy weak balance theory [ 5 ] , which states that triads other than the ones with one negative edge are stable and would occur very frequently in the network . Also , most of the triads satisfy status theory [ 7 ] where a positive edge is considered to be pointing towards a node of higher status than the edge originating node ( similarly , negative
+−−−−−−−−+−++++ or −+−++jikkjiijkkjiijkkjiijkkjiijk+ornnnnnnnn
