FindYou : A Personal Location Privacy Auditing Tool
Chris Riederer Columbia University mani@cscolumbiaedu
Stephanie Huang Columbia University syh2115@columbia.edu
ABSTRACT The ubiquitous availability of location data to smartphone apps and online social networks has caused the collection of such information to grow at unprecedented rate . However , the discriminative power and potential uses of this data collection is not always clear to the end user . In this work , we present FindYou , a web based application that gives users the ability to perform a location data privacy audit . FindYou lets users import and visualize the location data collected by popular web services in order to understand what these companies know or can easily infer about them . Additionally , FindYou gives users the option to donate their data to the scientific community , creating new mobile datasets linked to user properties that will be open to use by academic institutions . We hope that FindYou will increase awareness of the privacy issues surrounding the collection and use of location data , the potential problem of “ digital red lining ” , and also create valuable new datasets with the full informed consent of interested users .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
The overall economic model of network related services is that users receive free services and software from online providers . In return , the providers obtain revenue by displaying ads to users . Typically , providers only are paid when ads are clicked , or for showing ads to users within specific demographic groups that advertisers wish to target . Thus , providers have a strong incentive to deeply understand users , in order to show them the best ads or to prove to advertisers what demographic groups are seeing ads . This can create a problem when users are not fully informed about what data is being collected about them , what this data is being used for , or with whom this data is being shared . This issue has been exacerbated by the rise of smartphones– mobile technology has both made digital interactions constantly available , while also functioning as remote sensors , collecting detailed information on users’ real world movements and behaviors . cfl 2015 ACM . ISBN 123 4567 24 567/08/06 . DOI : 10.475/123 4
Danny Echikson Columbia University dje2125@columbia.edu
Augustin Chaintreau
Columbia University augustin@cscolumbiaedu
One important subset of this data is location data , which details where a user was at a specific time . Users are often incentivized to share their location data , for example , with an online service to find recommendations for nearby businesses , most often with their cell phone , but also on other devices through IP geolocation or different methods .
Online service providers can use the data for personalization , such as guessing what language the user will want to see or tailoring content to specific users . However , this data can also be used in ways that users may not be comfortable with . For example , location data can be used to infer a user ’s race , gender , or uniquely identify them from anonymous data sets [ 15 , 9 , 14 ] . Journalists have even found evidence that location data has been used in price discrimination . In one example , a newspaper found evidence to suggest that the a company was changing the prices of products purchased online based on the inferred distance of a customer to a competing store [ 11 ] . In another , Mac users were shown more expensive hotels on a travel website [ 6 ] .
In response to some of the problems with the overall economic state of the web , the community has created tools to detect and measure online personalization and ad targeting [ 4 , 13 ] . These tools , though very useful , are often not designed to inform non technical users of the problems inherent in personalization .
In this work , we focus privacy understanding tools on location data to create a personal location data auditing tool . This tool allows users to ( 1 ) enter or import personal location data gathered by three popular online services , ( 2 ) visualize this data , ( 3 ) view the demographics of their visited location in terms of race , income , age , and family make up , and finally ( 4 ) receive a prediction of their demographics based on this data . We design this tool with the goal that it will be approachable and informative for all users , especially those without deep technical knowledge . Another key part of this tool is to improve future research on demographics and mobility by allowing users to donate their data .
In the following sections , we will describe related work , the overall goals of our project , and the principles we focused on while designing it .
2 . RELATED WORK
This project lies at the intersection of two areas : location privacy and computational “ auditing ” tools .
Location privacy is a rich field that explores privacy problems created in the use of user location data and potential solutions . Previous works have shown that location data can be used to infer sensitive traits of individuals [ 15 , 9 ] .
Other works have explored how users understand and value their location privacy [ 10 ] . In constrast to these works , we do not utilize user data as an object of study , or seek to understand user perceptions of location privacy . Rather , we wish to inform users about their location data and potential privacy hazards by providing the user with a visualization of their already collected data , along with what this data might suggest to a third party .
Another related collection of work is that on systems for understanding how online personalization takes place . These works have attempted to measure personalization [ 3 , 13 ] , price discrimination [ 7 , 11 , 6 ] , and ad targeting [ 5 , 4 , 12 ] . We are closely related in that our work is concerned with these issues . However , rather than attempt to detect these problems , FindYou functions as a tool to make users aware of the existence of these issues .
There are multiple sources for capturing and visualizing your data online [ 2 , 8 ] . Our work goes beyond visualization by also showing predictions informing users of what their data could be used for . Additionally , there are other projects where users can donate their data to science [ 1 ] . Our project focuses on a specific subset of this larger goal , but offers a type of data that is not publicly widely available .
3 . DESCRIPTION
FindYou has two main goals : The first goal of our project is to inform users , regardless of technical skill , about what their location information can reveal . The second goal is to improve research on demographics and mobility by gathering a new dataset with the informed consent of interested users .
Figure 1 : The user is presented with four different ways of connecting his or her location data to the app .
Figure 2 : After connecting their data , the user sees an overview of their locations and imported data .
We will begin with a summary of a typical use of FindYou , and proceed to explain each component in more detail , along with the decision making that influenced the design . 3.1 Site Summary
When opening the site , the user is greeted with a general description of the project . After clicking through this
Figure 3 : We show a specific guess for the user ’s home location .
Figure 4 : For all predictions , we show additional details about how we made this guess . screen , the user has the option to import their data from three different web services or to manually import data by clicking visited locations on a map . Upon importing their data , users see the distribution of their visited locations of several different demographic traits , including race , income , age group , and parental status . Finally , at the bottom of the page , users have the ability to donate their data for further research . 3.2 Design Decisions
Why did we choose these sites ? FindYou is currently able to import data from three popular online services or manually , by a user clicking on visited points on a map . The three sites we chose are Instagram , Twitter , and Foursquare . These sites were chosen because they are all popular but also present a diversity of behaviors and different levels of focus on location . We will discuss each of these sites in turn .
Foursquare is a location based social network and review site . Users write reviews of and give tips about locations they have visited . It is estimated to have 50 million users . Foursquare is the most “ location centric ” of our utilized webservices , as users must reveal their location to obtain any value from the service .
Instagram is a photo sharing application owned by Facebook with 400 million monthly active users . Instagram is notable for it being primarily targeted at mobile phones ; currently users cannot upload photos from a desktop or laptop computer . The mobile focus makes it is easy for users to “ tag ” photos with locations using their phone ’s GPS device . Although many users do tag their photos with location data , unlike Foursquare , it is not necessary to post a location in order to use the app . Due to the fact that many users do tag their photos with locations , it is the second most “ locationcentric ” of our three services .
Twitter is a microblogging service where users post 140 character texts called “ tweets ” . Twitter has approximately 320 million users . Through its smartphone interface , Twit tion . Technically , this works by utilizing information from the United States Census . On our server , we store information on the boundaries of each US Census tract . We additionally have information on the make up of each Census tract for our selected traits . We chose these features to be interesting , surprising , and possible to infer using location data . Hopefully , FindYou can include additional interesting demographic features in the future .
Why did we use only simple machine learning techniques ? In addition to descriptive data about the distribution of visits in each category , we also present predictions of which category a user falls into for each demographic attribute . Although users may be interested about the demographics of the locations they visit , they might not realize that this information can be used to infer their own traits . Therefore , showing predictions is useful in and of itself , even if the predictions aren’t all accurate , as it shows users that their data can be used in such inferences . Driven by our goal of simplicity in explaining what ’s going on to the user , we use simple techniques that are intuitive for most users , as opposed to using more difficult to understand methods like SVMs or neural networks . For each demographic trait , we predict the user to be in the class to which they have the most visits . To make this concrete , consider the example of age . We break age into several categories . We average the distribution of age categories of all the locations a user has visited , and pick the category with the largest proportion .
How did you choose to represent locations ? There are many different ways to represent locations , such as latitude longitudes , venues , cities , or points of interest . Throughout the paper and the site , we use a United States Census tract as an “ atomic ” location . The United States Census partitions the country into census tracts , which are stable geographic boundaries chosen to contain homogeneous populations . Census tracts are typically the size of a few city blocks and might contain 4000 or fewer people . We chose to represent all locations as a census tract for several reasons . First , we can map any latitude longitude point into a census tract , and thus any venue with an associated lat lon into a tract as well . Census tracts are small enough to be targeted , but large enough to display without overwhelming the user . Finally , they are all associated with detailed demographic information from the Census .
Throughout the site , whenever a census tract is mentioned , the user can click on it to see its geographic bounadires and demographic make up .
Why only America ? Due to our reliance on US Census data , our site currently only bases it ’s predictions on visits to locations in the United States . We hope to expand to other countries in the future . This presents some challenge , as each census of each country will have different types of data available , different classifications , groupings , and currencies , and different APIs . We look forward to tackling this challenge in future work . For the time being , focusing on the world ’s third most populous country with one standardized census and many online social network users has appeared to be a good option .
4 . FUTURE WORK
Our most important future task is to obtain widespread usage and determine the most useful features of the site . FindYou is currently public and live . By showing it to more users , we hope that we can obtain valuable feedback and
Figure 5 : The site predicts several demographic attributes , one of which is race . The user has the option to tell us if we are correct .
( a )
( b )
Figure 6 : ( a ) Donut graph displaying distribution of income groups visited by user , and ( b ) map showing tracts visited by user along with income information on each tract . ter users can tag tweets with locations . Many users connect their Twitter account to other web services , such as Foursquare and Instagram , among others , which may also contain location data . The primary focus of most tweets is not about where a user currently is . Therefore , Twitter is the least location centric .
We additionally included an option for manual input . This option simply has users click on a map to say where they’ve been . We included this option and used this design for several reasons . First , we wanted users who do not use any of the three aforementioned services to be able to participate in a location information privacy audit . Additionally , allowing users to manually input data gives the ability for users to play with hypothetical trips or to input locations that were not tagged in the services . We used this design because it is easy and simple .
In the future , we hope to connect more services and also include more advanced location data uploading . For example , users could include data in standard geographic formats , such as GeoJSON or those used by GIS software . For the time being , we believe that our three chosen services and simple uploading methodology will provide users with an interesting and useful coverage of options .
Why did we choose to display these demographic features ? After a user has imported at least some of their location data , we display demographic information on the places they visited . The features we chose to show are race , income level , age , and family make up ( number of households with children ) . The user sees a pie chart showing the average ( over the user ’s visited locations ) categorical distribution for that demographic trait . The site additionally displays specific details about each category for the user ’s most visited loca
[ 6 ] D . Mattioli . On Orbitz , Mac Users Steered to Pricier
Hotels . onlinewsjcom , pages 1–6 , Aug . 2012 .
[ 7 ] J . Mikians , L . Gyarmati , V . Erramilli , and
N . Laoutaris . Detecting price and search discrimination on the internet . In HotNets XI : Proceedings of the 11th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks . ACM Request Permissions , Oct . 2012 .
[ 8 ] Move O Scope . Move O Scope . https://move o scopehalftoneco/ , Oct . 2015 .
[ 9 ] C . Riederer , S . Zimmeck , C . Phanord , A . Chaintreau , and S . M . Bellovin . ¸Si donˇSt have a photograph , but you can have my footprints . ” –revealing the demographics of location data . In ACM Conference on Social Networks , 2015 .
[ 10 ] J . Staiano , N . Oliver , B . Lepri , R . de Oliveira , M . Caraviello , and N . Sebe . Money Walks : A Human Centric Study on the Economics of Personal Mobile Data . arXiv.org , July 2014 .
[ 11 ] J . Valentino Devries , J . Singer Vine , and A . Soltani .
Websites Vary Prices , Deals Based on Users’ Information . onlinewsjcom , pages 1–6 , Dec . 2012 .
[ 12 ] C . E . Wills and C . Tatar . Understanding What They
Do with What They Know . WPES ’12 : Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM workshop on Privacy in the electronic society , 2012 .
[ 13 ] X . Xing , W . Meng , D . Doozan , N . Feamster , W . Lee , and A . C . Snoeren . Exposing Inconsistent Web Search Results with Bobble . Passive and Active Measurements Conference , 2014 .
[ 14 ] H . Zang and J . Bolot . Anonymization of location data does not work : a large scale measurement study . In MobiCom ’11 : Proceedings of the 17th annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking . ACM Request Permissions , Sept . 2011 .
[ 15 ] Y . Zhong , N . J . Yuan , W . Zhong , F . Zhang , and
X . Xie . You are where you go : Inferring demographic attributes from location check ins . In Proceedings of the Eighth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , WSDM ’15 , pages 295–304 , New York , NY , USA , 2015 . ACM . to rapidly iterate to present an engaging and informative perspective on the gathering of location data . One possibility is to run randomized controlled trials with FindYou and assessing its effect on attitudes or awareness of privacy issues .
Multiple improvements can be made to the site . We would like to offer more support in diverse geographic regions outside of the United States . Additionally , we could expand to other popular services or to more advanced forms of data uploading such as GeoJSON or text files of latitude longitude pairs . Another possible improvement would be to expand the number of demographic traits on which we classify , or to use more advanced classifiers .
We look forward to sharing any data that we obtain with the research community in a way that both protects the data of donating individuals as well as making it easy for members of the research community to make new discoveries .
5 . CONCLUSION
We have presented the motivation , design , and implementation of FindYou , a personal location privacy auditing tool . FindYou displays to the user their location data that has been collected by popular online services . Additionally , FindYou informs the user on the demographic make up of the areas that they have visited , and shows how this data can be used to infer traits about the user . In addition to these web services , FindYou allows users to manually edit their location data to see the impact of adding and removing locations on these predicted traits . FindYou allows users to donate their data , with the hope that eventually the research community will have a useful set of user location histories tagged with demographic information . The site is currently live at https://find youherokucom
6 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] L . R . Goldberg , J . A . Johnson , H . W . Eber , R . Hogan , M . C . Ashton , C . R . Cloninger , and H . G . Gough . The international personality item pool and the future of public domain personality measures . Journal of Research in personality , 40(1):84–96 , 2006 .
[ 2 ] Google . Google Location History . https://wwwgooglecom/maps/timeline , Oct . 2015 .
[ 3 ] A . Hannak , P . Sapiezynski , A . M . Kakhki ,
B . Krishnamurthy , D . Lazer , A . Mislove , and C . Wilson . Measuring personalization of web search . In WWW ’13 : Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee , May 2013 .
[ 4 ] M . Lecuyer , G . Ducoffe , F . Lan , A . Papancea ,
T . Petsios , R . Spahn , A . Chaintreau , and R . Geambasu . XRay : Enhancing the Web ’s Transparency with Differential Correlation . In 23rd USENIX Security Symposium ( USENIX Security 14 ) , San Diego , CA , 2014 . USENIX Association .
[ 5 ] B . Liu , A . Sheth , U . Weinsberg , J . Chandrashekar , and R . Govindan . AdReveal : improving transparency into online targeted advertising . In HotNets XII : Proceedings of the Twelfth ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks . ACM Request Permissions , Nov . 2013 .
