Temponym Tagging : Temporal Scopes for Textual Phrases
Erdal Kuzey , Jannik Strötgen , Vinay Setty , Gerhard Weikum
{ekuzey,jannikstroetgen,vsetty,weikum}@mpi infmpgde
Max Planck Institute for Informatics
Saarbrücken , Germany
ABSTRACT For many NLP and IR applications , anchored temporal information extracted from textual documents is of utmost importance . Thus , temporal tagging – the extraction and normalization of temporal expressions – has gained a lot of attention in recent years and several tools such as HeidelTime and SUTime are proposed . However , such tools do not address textual phrases with temporal scopes like “ Clinton ’s time as First Lady ” . While such phrases ( so called temponyms ) are not temporal expressions per se , information about their temporal scopes can be helpful in many scenarios , eg , in the context of temporal information retrieval . In this paper , we describe the integration of a wide range of temponyms to the publicly available temporal tagger HeidelTime to include temponym tagging .
Keywords temporal tagging ; temporal scopes ; temponyms ; HeidelTime
1 .
INTRODUCTION & DEFINITION
The value of temporal information for many tasks has been widely discussed , eg , in the context of information retrieval [ 1 , 2 ] . To extract temporal information latently available in the documents’ content , temporal taggers can be applied . They detect temporal expressions and make their semantics accessible by normalizing them into a standard format . In addition to explicit ( “ April 2016 ” , 2016 04 ) and implicit expressions ( “ Christmas 2015 ” , 2015 12 25 ) , underspecified ( “ in April ” ) and relative expressions ( “ two days later ” ) are also covered . To normalize these expressions , temporal taggers typically detect reference times and resolve temporal relations to them [ 7 ] . For instance , assuming April 11 , 2016 is detected as reference date for the expression “ two days later ” , the latter can be normalized to 2016 04 13 .
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee ( IW3C2 ) . IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the author ’s site if the Material is used in electronic media . WWW’16 Companion , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . ACM 978 1 4503 4144 8/16/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/28725182889289
State of the art temporal taggers like SUTime [ 3 ] and HeidelTime [ 8 ] follow the TimeML standard1 and assign TIMEX3 tags to date , time , duration , and set expressions . However , in addition to such expressions , there are many textual phrases with temporal scopes although they are not temporal expressions per se . For example , given the text “ The work is presented at the WWW Conference 2016 ” , a temporal tagger detects “ 2016 ” ( 2016 ) , although “ WWW Conference 2016 ” refers to [ 2016 04 11,2016 04 15 ] .
Recently , the concept of temponyms was defined in [ 5 ] :
“ Free text temporal expressions refer to arbitrary kinds of named events or facts with temporal scopes that are merely given by a text phrase but have unique interpretations given the context and background knowledge . ”
For the detection and resolution of temponyms , an entitytime oriented document model relying on the Yago knowledge base for distant supervision was presented in addition to the concept of temponyms [ 5 ] . Multiple contextual cues such as temporal expressions , part of speech tags , and entity mentions are used to jointly disambiguate temponym mentions and to infer their temporal scopes by matching the events and facts to entries in Yago . Thus , this approach can handle explicit ( “ Clinton ’s presidency ” ) and ambiguous temponyms such as “ his presidency ” in texts like “ During his presidency , Clinton . . . ” . However , due to relying on a wide set of tools and features as well as a suit of Integer Linear Programs , scaling up the system for processing large text corpora was left as an open issue .
In this paper , we extend the publicly available temporal tagger HeidelTime2 to cover a subset of temponyms , namely explicit temponyms that are unambiguous even without a context . While we address event style ( “ FIFA World Cup Final 1998 ” , 1998 07 12 ) and fact style temponyms ( “ Clinton ’s term as secretary of state ” , [ 2009 01 21,2013 02 01] ) , we do not address temponyms for which rich preprocessing is required , eg , coreference resolution for temponyms such as “ his presidency ” . Thus , we do not need a deep analysis and disambiguation of textual phrases . In addition , our approach can run stand alone without distant supervision . While temporal taggers already enrich documents with valuable semantics , the extraction of temponyms brings temporal information to the next level by making further information available and by specifying it in a more fine grained manner . Our approach is thus valuable for many search and exploration tasks . 1http://wwwtimemlorg 2https://github.com/HeidelTime/heideltime
