Automatic Entity Recognition and Typing in
Massive Text Corpora
Xiang Ren† Ahmed El Kishky† Chi Wang‡
† University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign , Urbana , IL , USA
Jiawei Han†
‡ Microsoft Research , Redmond , WA , USA
† {xren7,elkishk2,hanj}@illinois.edu ‡chiw@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT In today ’s computerized and information based society , we are soaked with vast amounts of natural language text data , ranging from news articles , product reviews , advertisements , to a wide range of user generated content from social media . To turn such massive unstructured text data into actionable knowledge , one of the grand challenges is to gain an understanding of entities and the relationships between them . In this tutorial , we introduce data driven methods to recognize typed entities of interest in different kinds of text corpora ( especially in massive , domain specific text corpora ) . These methods can automatically identify token spans as entity mentions in text and label their types ( eg , people , product , food ) in a scalable way . We demonstrate on real datasets including news articles and yelp reviews how these typed entities aid in knowledge discovery and management .
Keywords Entity Recognition and Typing ; Massive Text Corpora
Introduction Motivation : Entity recognition/typing and structured analysis of massive text corpora . The success of database technology is largely attributed to the efficient and effective management of structured data . The construction of a wellstructured database is often the premise of consequent applications . Although the majority of existing data generated in our society is unstructured , big data leads to big opportunities to uncover structures of real world entities , such as people , products , organizations , and events , from massive amount but inter related unstructured data . By mining token spans of entity mentions in documents , labeling their structured types and inferring their relations , it is possible to construct semantically rich structures and provide conceptual summarization of such data . The uncovered structures will facilitate browsing information and retrieving knowledge that are otherwise locked in the data . Our phrase
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’16 Companion , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . ACM 978 1 4503 4144 8/16/04 . DOI : http://dxdoiorg/101145/287251828910651 mining tool , SegPhrase [ 34 ] , won the grand prize of Yelp Dataset Challenge1 , and our entity recognition and typing tool , ClusType [ 41 ] , was shipped to facilitate products in Microsoft Bing Ads team .
Example : Entity recognition and typing for social media . In a collection of tweets , entities such as people , restaurants and events are mentioned in text . For example , from the tweet “ Jean Joho ( Chef of The Eiffel Tower Restaurant ) is on board to present at EC 2010 . ” , it is desirable to identify “ Jean Joho ” as person , and “ The Eiffel Tower Restaurant ” as restaurant , and ‘EC 2010 ” as event . However , existing work encounters several challenges when handling such a domain specific text corpus :
1 . The lack of human annotated data for domain specific corpus presents a major challenge for adapting traditional supervised named entity recognition systems . Fortunately , a number of structured and semantically rich knowledge bases are available , which provides chances for automatically recognizing entities by utilizing distant supervision .
2 . Many entity detection tools are trained on generaldomain , regular corpora ( eg , news articles ) , but they do not work well on domain specific corpora such as tweets . A domain agnostic phrase mining algorithm is required to efficiently generate entity mention candidates with minimal linguistic assumptions .
3 . Entity surface names are often ambiguous—multiple entities many share the same surface name ( eg , “ Jean Joho ” may refer to different people ) . Even though the contexts surrounding each entity mention provide clues on its types , challenges arise due to the diversity on paraphrasing . With data redundancy in a massive corpus , it is possible to disambiguate entities and resolve synonymous surrounding contexts using correlated textual information structured in an information network for holistic analysis .
What will be covered in this tutorial ? Preliminaries : We introduce the audience to the broad subject of entity recognition by providing motivation in the context of information extraction for knowledge base population . Within this context introduce entities , types , extracting these entities from within text itself , and examples
1http://wwwyelpcom/dataset_challenge validating the necessity for entity disambiguation and resolution . We then introduce several different applications to latent entity discovery in data . In particular , we will introduce and explain grouping latent entities by concepts , by topics , and even extracting and understanding relationships between entities .
Entity Mention Detection : In this part of our presentation , we introduce the problem of identifying entity mentions . We formulate the problem and discuss three main schools of thought in tackling the problem .
1 . Supervised Methods : We begin by introducing IOB , a common representation that transforms entity mention detection into classification . Then , beginning with classical ( non sequential ) models , we outline a variety of methods including unigram and higher order chunkers , SVM ’s , maximum entropy models , and ensemble methods . We then introduce sequential models for entity mention detection and outline a progressive array of methods from generative to discriminative models .
2 . Unsupervised Methods : We follow on by introducing two main classes of unsupervised approaches : chunking grammar approaches and methods that draw upon largetext corpora and their relative merits and broad spectrum of applications . We then focus on applications of ToPMine for topical phrase mining and noun collocation mining .
3 . Distantly / Weakly Supervised Methods : We focus on a variety of methods including incorporating outside information via dictionary . We mainly emphasize SegPhrase , an approach for extracting high quality phrases and entity mentions with minimal supervision .
Entity Recognition in Individual Documents :
1 . General Text : In the context of general text recognition , we discuss introduce many named entity recognition ( NER ) methods . We discuss entity recognition as sequence labeling as well as the coarse types and manually annotated corpora these models leverage .
2 . Domain Text : In the context of domain specific extraction , we discuss several approaches . We discuss twitter in the context of Tweet segmentation and chunking as well as LabeledLDA based on Freebase . In addition to twitter we discuss entity recognition in product reviews and biomedical text data .
Entity Recognition in Large Domain Specific Corpora : We contrast single document cases to the context of large single domain corpora . Starting with semi supervised approaches , we present sequence labeling models and models that combine local and global features . We transition to weakly supervised approaches and their merits discussing pattern based bootstrapping methods , SEISA : Set expansion , and a variety of probabilistic modeling methods as well as graph based label propagation approaches . We then discuss several approaches for distantly supervised entity recognition . These methods include state of the art approaches such as FIGER which performs sequence labeling with automatically annotated data , SemTagger a contextual classifier that uses seed data , APOLLO which performs label propagation on graphs , and ClusType which employs relation phrase based clustering for effective entity recognition .
Case Study and Evaluations We conclude our tutorial by demonstrating the capabilities of many of the tools and methods mentioned on a variety of test cases and metrics . We begin by evaluating tools and methodologies for entity recognition . We introduce a variety of evaluation metrics and public datasets , and evaluate a variety of generaldomain NER systems including the Stanford Named Entity Recognizer , Illinois Named Entity Tagger , FIGER , and other Named Entity Recognition in NLP toolkits . We then present a few case studies on two real world datasets consisting of news articles and tweets . In particular we focus on entity mention detection in these datasets and typing these extracted entity mentions .
Target Audience and prerequisites Researchers and practitioners in the field of data mining , text mining , information extraction , information retrieval , web search , database systems , and information systems .
While the audience with a good background in these areas would benefit most from this tutorial , we believe the material to be presented would give general audience and newcomers an introductory pointer to the current work and important research topics in this field , and inspire them to learn more . Only preliminary knowledge about text mining , information extraction , data mining , algorithms , and their applications are needed .
Tutorial Outline This tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of the techniques developed for automatic entity recognition and typing in recent years . We will discuss the following key issues .
1 . Preliminaries of Entity Recognition and Typing
( a ) Entities that are explicitly typed and linked exter nally with documents . i . Wikilinks and ClueWeb corpora
( b ) Entities that can be extracted within text .
( c ) Entity disambiguation and resolution . i . MENED : Mining evidence outside referent knowl edge bases
2 . Entity Mention Detection
( a ) Unsupervised Entity Mention Detection i . ReVerb : A pattern based approach for match ing entities and relations ii . Significance detection of phrases and entities in a corpus iii . Jointly identifying significant phrases for enti ties and relations
( b ) Supervised Entity Mention Detection i . Jointly extracting entities and relations ii . MaxiEnt markov models for information extrac tion and segmentation iii . Semi supervised text chunking for entity candi date generation iv . Ranking for entity mention
( c ) Distantly / Weakly Supervised Methods i . SegPhrase : Weakly supervised phrase extrac
5 . Evaluations of entity recognition tion and segmentation ii . Exploiting dictionaries : Combining semi markov extraction process with data integration
3 . Entity Recognition in Single Text Documents
( a ) Traditional supervised named entity recognition ( NER ) systems i . Entity recognition and typing as a sequence la beling task ii . Classic coarse types and manually annotated cor pora iii . Sequence labeling models
A . Hidden Markov models B . Maximum entropy based models C . SVM based models D . Conditional random field based models
( b ) Entity recognition in tweets i . Tweet segmentation and chunking ii . LabeledLDA based on Freebase iii . Segment ranking
( c ) Entity recognition in product reviews
( d ) Entity recognition in biomedical text
4 . Entity Recognition in A Large , Domain specific Corpus
( a ) Semi supervised approaches i . Combining local and global features
( b ) Weakly supervised approaches i . Pattern based bootstrapping methods ii . SEISA : A set expansion method iii . Probabilistic modeling methods iv . Graph based label propagation v . Extracting entities from web tables
( c ) Distantly supervised approaches i . SemTagger : Seed based contextual classifier for entity typing ii . APOLLO : Label propagation on graphs iii . ClusType : Effective entity recognition by rela tion phrase based clustering
( d ) Fine grained typing approaches i . FIGER : Multi label classification with automat ically annotated data ii . HYENA : Hierarchical classification for fine grained typing iii . WSABIE : Embedding method for fine grained typing
( e ) Label noise reduction in distant supervision i . Noisy candidate types in automatically gener ated training data ii . Simple pruning heuristics iii . Partial label learning methods iv . Label noise reduction by heterogeneous partial label embedding
( a ) Evaluation metrics and public datasets ( b ) Public general domain NER systems ( c ) Shared tasks on entity recognition
6 . Case studies : news articles and tweets .
( a ) Entity recognition in these datasets i . Detect entity mentions in these datasets ii . Typing entity mentions in these datasets
( b ) Integrating entities in both datasets
7 . Recent progress and research problems on entity recog nition
( a ) Combine entity recognition with other related tasks ( b ) Extracting entities from multiple sources ( c ) Integrating multiple NER systems
Instructors Xiang Ren is a PhD candidate of Department of Computer Science at Univ . of Illinois at Urbana Champaign . His research focuses on knowledge acquisition from text data and mining linked data . He is the recipient of C . L . and Jane WS Liu Award and Yahoo! DAIS Research Excellence Gold Award in 2015 . He received Microsoft Young Fellowship from Microsoft Research Asia in 2012 .
Ahmed El Kishky is a PhD candidate at Univ . of Illinois at Urbana Champaign . His research interests include mining large unstructured data , text mining , and network mining . He is the recipient of both the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship as well as National Defense Science and Engineering Fellowship .
Chi Wang is a researcher in Microsoft Research , Redmond , Washington . He has been researching into discovering knowledge from unstructured and linked data , such as topics , concepts , relations , communities and social influence . His book Mining Latent Entity Structures is published by Morgan Claypool Pub . in the series of Synthesis Lectures on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery . He is a winner of Microsoft Research Graduate Research Fellowship .
Jiawei Han is an Abel Bliss Professor of Department of Computer Science at Univ . of Illinois at Urbana Champaign . His research areas encompass data mining , data warehousing , information network analysis , etc . , with over 600 conference and journal publications . He is Fellow of ACM , Fellow of IEEE , the Director of IPAN , supported by Network Science Collaborative Technology Alliance program of the US Army Research Lab , and the Director of KnowEnG : a Knowledge Engine for Genomics , one of the NIH supported Big Data to Knowledge ( BD2K ) Centers . Acknowledgments Research was sponsored in part by the US Army Research Lab . under Cooperative Agreement No . W911NF 09 2 0053 ( NSCTA ) , National Science Foundation IIS 1017362 , IIS1320617 , and IIS 1354329 , HDTRA1 10 1 0120 , and grant 1U54GM114838 awarded by NIGMS through funds provided by the trans NIH Big Data to Knowledge ( BD2K ) initiative ( wwwbd2knihgov ) , and MIAS , a DHS IDS Center for Multimodal Information Access and Synthesis at UIUC .
1 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] R . K . Ando and T . Zhang . A high performance semi supervised learning method for text chunking . In ACL , 2005 .
[ 2 ] S . Auer , C . Bizer , G . Kobilarov , J . Lehmann , R . Cyganiak , and Z . Ives . Dbpedia : A nucleus for a web of open data . Springer , 2007 .
[ 3 ] D . M . Bikel , R . Schwartz , and R . M . Weischedel . An algorithm that learns what ’s in a name . Machine learning , 34(1 3):211–231 , 1999 .
[ 4 ] A . Blum and T . Mitchell . Combining labeled and unlabeled data with co training . In COLT Workshop on Computational Learning Theory , 1998 .
[ 5 ] K . Bollacker , C . Evans , P . Paritosh , T . Sturge , and J . Taylor . Freebase : a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge . In SIGMOD , 2008 .
[ 6 ] A . Carlson , J . Betteridge , R . C . Wang , E . R . Hruschka Jr , and T . M . Mitchell . Coupled semi supervised learning for information extraction . In WSDM , 2010 .
[ 7 ] W . W . Cohen and S . Sarawagi . Exploiting dictionaries in named entity extraction : combining semi markov extraction processes and data integration methods . In SIGKDD , 2004 .
[ 8 ] M . Collins . Ranking algorithms for named entity extraction : Boosting and the voted perceptron . In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 489–496 . Association for Computational Linguistics , 2002 .
[ 9 ] J . R . Curran and S . Clark . Language independent ner using a maximum entropy tagger . In HLT NAACL , 2003 . [ 10 ] B . B . Dalvi , W . W . Cohen , and J . Callan . Websets :
Extracting sets of entities from the web using unsupervised information extraction . In WSDM , 2012 .
[ 11 ] X . L . Dong , T . Strohmann , S . Sun , and W . Zhang .
Knowledge vault : A web scale approach to probabilistic knowledge fusion . In SIGKDD , 2014 .
[ 12 ] A . El Kishky , Y . Song , C . Wang , C . R . Voss , and J . Han . Scalable topical phrase mining from text corpora . VLDB , 2015 .
[ 13 ] O . Etzioni , M . Cafarella , D . Downey , A M Popescu ,
T . Shaked , S . Soderland , D . S . Weld , and A . Yates . Unsupervised named entity extraction from the web : An experimental study . Artificial Intelligence , 165(1):91–134 , 2005 .
[ 14 ] A . Fader , S . Soderland , and O . Etzioni . Identifying relations for open information extraction . In EMNLP , 2011 .
[ 15 ] J . R . Finkel , T . Grenager , and C . Manning . Incorporating non local information into information extraction systems by gibbs sampling . In ACL , 2005 .
[ 16 ] V . Ganti , A . C . K¨onig , and R . Vernica . Entity categorization over large document collections . In SIGKDD , 2008 .
[ 17 ] W . Gao , P . Li , and K . Darwish . Joint topic modeling for event summarization across news and social media streams . In CIKM , 2012 .
[ 18 ] A . Gattani , D . S . Lamba , N . Garera , M . Tiwari , X . Chai , S . Das , S . Subramaniam , A . Rajaraman , V . Harinarayan , and A . Doan . Entity extraction , linking , classification , and tagging for social media : a wikipedia based approach . VLDB , 6(11):1126–1137 , 2013 .
[ 19 ] W . Guo , H . Li , Ji , and M . T . Diab . Linking tweets to news :
A framework to enrich short text data in social media . In ACL , 2013 .
[ 20 ] S . Gupta and C . D . Manning . Improved pattern learning for bootstrapped entity extraction . In CONLL , 2014 .
[ 21 ] Y . He and D . Xin . Seisa : set expansion by iterative similarity aggregation . In WWW , 2011 .
[ 24 ] D . S . Kim , K . Verma , and P . Z . Yeh . Joint extraction and labeling via graph propagation for dictionary construction . In AAAI , 2013 .
[ 25 ] Z . Kozareva , K . Voevodski , and S H Teng . Class label enhancement via related instances . In EMNLP , 2011 .
[ 26 ] C . Li , J . Weng , Q . He , Y . Yao , A . Datta , A . Sun , and B S
Lee . Twiner : named entity recognition in targeted twitter stream . In SIGIR , 2012 .
[ 27 ] Q . Li and H . Ji . Incremental joint extraction of entity mentions and relations . In ACL , 2014 .
[ 28 ] G . Limaye , S . Sarawagi , and S . Chakrabarti . Annotating and searching web tables using entities , types and relationships . VLDB , 3(1 2):1338–1347 , 2010 .
[ 29 ] D . Lin and X . Wu . Phrase clustering for discriminative learning . In ACL , 2009 .
[ 30 ] H . Lin , Y . Jia , Y . Wang , X . Jin , X . Li , and X . Cheng .
Populating knowledge base with collective entity mentions : A graph based approach . In ASONAM , 2014 .
[ 31 ] T . Lin , O . Etzioni , et al . No noun phrase left behind : detecting and typing unlinkable entities . In EMNLP , 2012 .
[ 32 ] W . Lin , R . Yangarber , and R . Grishman . Bootstrapped learning of semantic classes from positive and negative examples . In ICML Workshop on The Continuum from Labeled to Unlabeled Data , 2003 .
[ 33 ] X . Ling and D . S . Weld . Fine grained entity recognition . In
AAAI , 2012 .
[ 34 ] J . Liu , J . Shang , C . Wang , X . Ren , and J . Han . Mining quality phrases from massive text corpora . In SIGMOD , 2015 .
[ 35 ] A . McCallum , D . Freitag , and F . C . Pereira . Maximum entropy markov models for information extraction and segmentation . In ICML , volume 17 , pages 591–598 , 2000 .
[ 36 ] P . McNamee and J . Mayfield . Entity extraction without language specific resources . In COLING , 2002 .
[ 37 ] D . Nadeau and S . Sekine . A survey of named entity recognition and classification . Lingvisticae Investigationes , 30(1):3–26 , 2007 .
[ 38 ] N . Nakashole , T . Tylenda , and G . Weikum . Fine grained semantic typing of emerging entities . In ACL , 2013 .
[ 39 ] K . Nigam and R . Ghani . Analyzing the effectiveness and applicability of co training . In CIKM , 2000 .
[ 40 ] L . Ratinov and D . Roth . Design challenges and misconceptions in named entity recognition . In ACL , 2009 .
[ 41 ] X . Ren , A . El Kishky , C . Wang , F . Tao , C . R . Voss , and J . Han . Clustype : Effective entity recognition and typing by relation phrase based clustering . In SIGKDD , 2015 .
[ 42 ] A . Ritter , S . Clark , O . Etzioni , et al . Named entity recognition in tweets : an experimental study . In EMNLP , 2011 .
[ 43 ] W . Shen , J . Wang , and J . Han . Entity linking with a knowledge base : Issues , techniques , and solutions . TKDE , ( 99):1–20 , 2014 .
[ 44 ] W . Shen , J . Wang , P . Luo , and M . Wang . A graph based approach for ontology population with named entities . In CIKM , 2012 .
[ 45 ] Y . Sun and J . Han . Mining heterogeneous information networks : a structural analysis approach . SIGKDD Explorations , 14(2):20–28 , 2013 .
[ 46 ] P . P . Talukdar , T . Brants , M . Liberman , and F . Pereira . A context pattern induction method for named entity extraction . In CONLL , 2006 .
[ 47 ] P . P . Talukdar and F . Pereira . Experiments in graph based semi supervised learning methods for class instance acquisition . In ACL , 2010 .
[ 48 ] J . Turian , L . Ratinov , and Y . Bengio . Word representations : a simple and general method for semi supervised learning . In ACL , 2010 .
[ 22 ] R . Huang and E . Riloff . Inducing domain specific semantic
[ 49 ] R . Yangarber , W . Lin , and R . Grishman . Unsupervised class taggers from ( almost ) nothing . In ACL , 2010 . learning of generalized names . In COLING , 2002 .
[ 23 ] H . Ji and R . Grishman . Knowledge base population : Successful approaches and challenges . In ACL , 2011 .
