6 1 0 2 r a
M 3 1
]
Y C . s c [
1 v 2 1 0 4 0
.
3 0 6 1 : v i X r a
The Death and Life of Great Italian Cities :
A Mobile Phone Data Perspective
Marco De Nadai
Fondazione Bruno Kessler
University of Trento
Trento , Italy denadai@fbk.eu
Jacopo Staiano Sorbonne Universités
Paris , France jacopostaiano@lip6fr
Roberto Larcher SKIL , Telecom Italia
Trento , Italy robertolarcher@telecomitaliait
Nicu Sebe
University of Trento
Trento , Italy sebe@disiunitnit
Daniele Quercia
Bell Labs
Cambridge , United Kingdom quercia@cantab.net
Bruno Lepri
Fondazione Bruno Kessler
Trento , Italy lepri@fbk.eu
ABSTRACT The Death and Life of Great American Cities was written in 1961 and is now one of the most influential book in city planning . In it , Jane Jacobs proposed four conditions that promote life in a city . However , these conditions have not been empirically tested until recently . This is mainly because it is hard to collect data about “ city life ” . The city of Seoul recently collected pedestrian activity through surveys at an unprecedented scale , with an effort spanning more than a decade , allowing researchers to conduct the first study successfully testing Jacobs ’s conditions . In this paper , we identify a valuable alternative to the lengthy and costly collection of activity survey data : mobile phone data . We extract human activity from such data , collect land use and socio demographic information from the Italian Census and Open Street Map , and test the four conditions in six Italian cities . Although these cities are very different from the places for which Jacobs ’s conditions were spelled out ( ie , great American cities ) and from the places in which they were recently tested ( ie , the Asian city of Seoul ) , we find those conditions to be indeed associated with urban life in Italy as well . Our methodology promises to have a great impact on urban studies , not least because , if replicated , it will make it possible to test Jacobs ’s theories at scale .
1 .
INTRODUCTION
By 2030 , 9 % of the world population is expected to live in just 41 mega cities , each of which will accommodate more than 10M inhabitants1 . Cities are essential crucibles for innovation , tolerance , novelty , and economic prosperity [ 4 , 13 ] , but they also face challenges in terms of , for example , traffic , pollution , poverty , and criminality [ 13 ] .
1http://wwweconomistcom/node/21642053
WWW 2016 , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . .
A fundamental research question that urban planners , sociologists and economists are investigating is what creates urban life . The urban sociologist Jane Jacobs in The Death and Life of Great American Cities [ 19 ] , one of the most influential books in city planning , introduced the urban physical environment ( the urban fabric ) as an essential factor for urban vitality [ 19 ] . As the book title says , Jacobs dealt with the death and life of American cities . In its most basic form , her argument was that death was caused by elimination of pedestrian activity ( eg , by highway construction , largescale development projects ) , and that life was created by the presence of pedestrians at all times of the day .
She argued that , to promote urban life in large cities , the physical environment should be characterized by diversity at both the district and street level . Diversity , in turn , requires four essential conditions : ( i ) mixed land uses , that is , districts should serve more than two primary functions , and that would attract people who have different purposes ; ( ii ) small blocks , which promote contact opportunities among people ; ( iii ) buildings diverse in terms of age and form , which make it possible to mix high rent and low rent tenants ; and ( iv ) sufficient dense concentration of people and buildings .
Despite their importance , those conditions have not been empirically tested all together until recently , mainly because it is hard to collect data about which neighborhoods have full urban life and which have little of it . After an effort lasting more than a decade , the city of Seoul recently managed to collect pedestrian activity through surveys , and local researchers performed the first study testing Jacobs ’s conditions in the city [ 40 ] . The researchers found her claims to hold in Seoul too : mixed use , old buildings , and density all contributed to urban life .
To complement the lengthy and costly survey based collection of activity data , this work put forward the use of mobile phone data . We extracted human activity measurements from mobile phone records in six Italian cities Bologna , Florence , Milan , Palermo , Rome , and Turin . These cities are very different from the places in which Jacobs ’s conditions were spelled out ( ie , great American cities ) and from the places in which they were recently tested ( ie , the Asian city of Seoul ) . Despite that , our results showed that the four conditions for promoting urban life do hold for Italian cities as well . To produce those results , we made three main contributions :
• Building upon previous works [ 19 , 40 ] , we proposed a set of metrics for urban diversity derived from open , aggregated , and anonymous map data , and a metric for urban vitality derived from mobile phone activity ( Section 5 ) ;
• We provided a comprehensive assessment of the predictive power of Jacobs ’s diversity conditions in the Italian context ( Section 6 ) ;
• Finally , we identified our work ’s theoretical and practi cal implications , and its limitations ( Section 7 ) .
2 . RELATED WORK
Our work is best placed in an emerging interdisciplinary field called “ urban computing ” [ 42 ] . This combines computer science approaches with more traditional fields like urban planning , urban economy , and urban sociology .
The idea of testing urban theories using novel sources of data ( eg , social media , online images and videos , mobile phone data ) has received increasing attention [ 35 , 36 , 37 ] . The urban sociologist Kevin Lynch showed that people living in an urban environment create their own personal “ mental map ” of the city based on features such as the areas they visit and the routes they use [ 26 ] . Hence , he hypothesized that , the more recognizable a city , the more navigable the city . To test Lynch ’s theory , Quercia et al . built a web game that crowd sourced Londoners’ mental images of the city [ 36 ] . They showed that areas suffering from social problems such as poor living conditions and crime are rarely present in residents’ mental images .
Researchers also investigated which urban elements people use to visually judge a street to be safe , wealthy , and attractive using web crowdsourcing games [ 32 , 35 , 37 ] , and they also studied how to identify walkable streets using the social media data of Flickr and Foursquare ( eg , unsafe streets tended to be photographed during the day , while walkable streets were tagged with walkability related keywords [ 34] ) . The recent availability of large scale data sets , such as those automatically collected by mobile phone networks , opens new possibilities for studying city dynamics at finer and unprecedented granularity [ 5 ] . Mobile phone data represents a highly valuable proxy for human mobility patterns [ 14 , 22 , 39 ] . Such data was recently used to map functional uses [ 16 , 23 ] , to identify places that play a major role in the life of citizens [ 18 ] , to compare cities based on their spatial similarities and differences [ 24 ] , and to predict socio economic indicators [ 11 , 38 ] , including crime [ 6 , 7 , 41 ] .
Researchers recently tested Jane Jacobs ’s observations about crime [ 6 , 7 , 41 ] . They verified her natural surveillance theory . She posited that people diversity and presence of visitors in a neighborhood contribute to natural surveillance and , as such , discourage crime : as people are moving around an area , they effectively become “ eyes on the street ” able to observe what is going on around them .
To go beyond crime , we set out to conduct a comprehensive validation of Jacobs ’s four conditions for urban life . To do that , we gather several sets of data .
3 . SETS OF DATA
Mobile Phone Activity . Every time a mobile phone communicates , a radio base station delivers the communication through the network , and a new call data record is created . This record reports the time of the communication , and the radio base station that handled it . Different types of call records exist , recording various types of communication ( eg , incoming calls , Internet , outgoing SMS ) . We decided to focus on Internet activity , since it allows for the passive reconstruction of people ’s mobility : even in the absence of direct user activity ( eg , making/receiving a call , receiving/sending an SMS ) , mobile phones can be tracked since they are likely to be connected to the Internet for background traffic and push notifications .
Call records have been provided by the Semantics and Knowledge Innovation Lab of Telecom Italia Mobile , which is the largest mobile operator in Italy with 34 % of the entire market share2 . Our data is aggregated every 60 minutes , comes from both TIM customers and roaming customers in the six cities , and covers the time ranging from February to October 2014 .
OpenStreetMap . OpenStreetMap3 ( OSM ) is a global project that aims to collaboratively create a detailed map of the world . With more than 2.1 million contributors , it has become the most valuable and openly accessible source of information about the physical world . OSM data is composed by three data primitives : nodes , ways and relations . Nodes define points in space like Point Of Interests ( which we call “ places ” ) , ways define roads and other linear features , and relations reflect how those elements are related to each other . Since we focused on the geographic unit of a block ( ie , the smallest area that is surrounded by street segments ) , we filtered out suburban elements : ways with tag highways using Overpass API4 , footpaths , primary roads , and proposed roads .
Census Data . The Italian National Institute for Statistics ( ISTAT ) provides , under open data licences , information gathered via the 2011 Italian Census5 . We used the census’ variables related to people and buildings ( Table 1 ) , which were defined at various geographic levels .
Land Use . Urban land cover and land use for Large Urban Zones ( LUZs ) is mapped by the Urban ATLAS European project6 . This project exploits satellite images to categorize the city in 20 classes ( eg , agricultural areas , continuous urban fabric ) with a precision between 0.25 and 1 hectares , and accuracy above 80 % . The dataset is built and validated for 2006 , while its version updated to 2012 will be released at the end of 2015 . However , for Turin and Rome , the new data is already available , and we used it .
Infrastructures . In addition to the Urban ATLAS dataset , we used the ISTAT statistical atlas of infrastructures ( Atlante
2http://bit.ly/1LtNrFY 3http://wwwopenstreetmapcom 4http://overpass turbo.eu/ 5http://wwwistatit/it/archivio/104317 6http://wwweeaeuropaeu/data and maps/data/ urban atlas
ISTAT code Description
P1 E2 E3 E8 E16
E17 E20
E21 E26
ADDETTI number of residents number of used buildings number of residential buildings number of buildings in 9 age bands in the range [ 1919 , 2011 ] number of buildings of 4 types based on their number of floors number of buildings of 6 types based on their internal apartments number of employees
ISTAT open data variables under study . Table 1 : The last variable comes from the census of industry and services ( censimento dell’industria e dei servizi ) , while the rest come from the census of population and housing ( censimento della popolazione e delle abitazioni ) . statistico delle infrastrutture)7 , which provides details on the logistic facilities ( eg , presence of railways ) in Italy .
Foursquare Data . Created in 2008 , Foursquare is the world leading location based social network . It has attracted more than 30 million users8 . Through a gamification system , users are encouraged to check in their geographical position into the social network and sharing the places they visit ( venues ) . Venues are places whose geographical information is enriched with semantic labels specifying details about them . Three hierarchical levels for place categories exist in Foursquare : an abstract level grouping venues in macro categories ( eg , “ food ” ) ; a more specific one ( eg , “ restaurant ” ) ; and a third highly detailed level ( eg , “ Thai restaurant ” )9 . We extracted Foursquare venues from the public API10 for the categories in Table 2 .
Group
NightLife
Art night
Services
Foursquare category
Brewery , Champagne Bar , Cocktail Bar , Dive Bar , Gay Bar , Hookah Bar , Lounge , Night Market , Night club , Other Nightlife , Pub , Strip Club , Whisky Bar , Wine bar , Nightlife Spot Laser Tag , Movie Theater , Music Venue , Performing Arts Medical Center , Library , Government Building , Military Base , Post Office
Eating drinking Food Org . activity
Outside Commercial
Comedy Club , Country Dance Club , Salsa Club , Club , Community Center , Cultural Center , Library , Social Club , Spiritual Park , Plaza , Pedestrian Plaza Shop & Service ( excluding ATM , Construction , EV Charging , Gas Station / Garage , Newsstand )
Table 2 : The Foursquare categories of the venues under study .
7http://wwwistatit/it/archivio/41899 8http://bit.ly/1VNf4jQ 9https://developerfoursquarecom/categorytree 10https://apifoursquarecom
4 . DEATH AND LIFE OF CITIES
In The Death and Life of Great American Cities [ 19 ] , Jane Jacobs argued that “ death ” in urban areas is caused by the elimination of pedestrian activity from urban streets . By contrast , urban life is created by a continual sidewalk ballet consisting of a street filled with pedestrians at all times of the day . In her own words , “ a well used city street is apt to be a safe street and a deserted city street is apt to be unsafe ” [ 19 ] . This means that streets must be used fairly continuously during the day , both by residents and by strangers . These “ eyes on streets ” generate a virtuous loop which , in turn , increases public safety , creates diverse faceto face interactions , and contributes to the local economy .
Jacobs spelled out four diversity requirements essential for the generation and maintenance of urban life . First , a district should serve more than one primary function , preferably more than two . This attracts people with diverse purposes who end up sharing common facilities . Moreover , when primary uses are combined in a way that attracts people at different times of the day , then that positively impacts the local economy . For instance , a neighbourhood where people are present only during office hours is likely to provide only a few , if any , leisure facilities : it would be neither efficient nor attractive for residents . Conversely , should a secondary function flourish by , eg , the presence of theaters , museums or night life places , residents would likely benefit .
Second , Jacobs argued that street blocks must be short . She observed that large rectangular blocks are apt to thwart the effective mixture of use and people , resulting into paths that meet each other too infrequently . By contrast , smaller blocks provide more intersections , and thus slow down automobiles , which , she argued , are inclined to destroy urban vitality by discouraging the presence of pedestrian activity . Third , in Jacobs ’s view , the buildings in a district should be diverse in terms of age and form . This ensures diversity of economic activity . Diverse buildings make it possible to have a mixture of jobs ( ie , high , medium and moderateincome jobs ) and a mixture of tenants ( eg , high rent and low rent tenants ) [ 12 , 15 , 19 , 21 ] . Her view came from observing large scale projects in the New York of her time : she saw that large scale buildings did not change over time and hardly adapted to the environment that surrounded them ; by contrast , old buildings helped to cultivate new primary uses in the neighborhood ( eg , new companies were likely to start and initially grow in old and low rent buildings ) .
The fourth and final condition is about dense concentration of people and buildings . The idea is that density fosters “ lively ” district that are able to attract people for different purposes .
Jacobs emphasized that all four factors are necessary : density alone cannot create urban diversity , and mixed land use would not flourish in areas with big blocks and of low density .
Further , in addition to those four conditions , Jacobs talked about ‘vacuums’ , which are patches of land dedicated to a single use ( eg , transport facilities , parks ) . Those elements might be good or bad . Small railway stations , bus stops and small parks may act as hubs for the pedestrian activity ; but , at the same time , if not well managed , a park could be used only at a certain time of the day , exposing it to deprivation and criminality .
#Districts Size ( avg ) Population ( avg )
Land use
Distribution
µ
City
Bologna Florence Milan Palermo Rome Turin
23 21 85 43 146 56
3.34 2.89 1.72 2.01 3.24 2.00
15,918 16,633 14,551 15,075 17,312 15,543
Table 3 : Number , average size ( in km2 ) , and population of the districts in our six cities .
5 . METHODOLOGY
Our approach leverages mobile Internet activity from call data records to extract proxies for urban vitality , and web data from public entities ( eg , national census ) and commercial ones ( eg , Foursquare ) to extract urban diversity as per Jacobs ’s four conditions . Our goal is to study the relationship between urban vitality and diversity . Next , we spell out the metrics and the regression models we used to meet that goal .
In the 2011 Italian census , the smallest administrative unit of cities is represented by the census sections ( sezioni di censimento ) , also called blocks . These sections are delimited by street segments and are grouped with other nearby sections to form a census area ( area di censimento ) called district . The boundaries of a district are drawn on the basis of socio economic conditions in a way that districts can be compared with each other in terms of , for example , population : districts have between 13,000 and 18,000 inhabitants11 . This is a loose constraint , however : city administrations may ignore it and define their own districts . Empirically , we verify that , in our data , a district covers an average area of 2.47 km2 with an average population density of 10,000 people per km2 ( Table 3 ) . Jacobs did not define any strict criterion concerning district size : she simply proposed that the edge of an administrative district should not exceed 2.4 km , and that each district should have a minimum population of 50,000 people . Compared to that definition , our districts are similar in terms of area and smaller in terms of population . 5.1
Jacobs ’s metrics
We extracted several variables to quantify the four condi tions ( Table 4 ) , and we will detail them next .
511 Land use The first of Jacobs ’s four conditions is to have mixed primary uses in a district [ 19 ] . Primary categories include residential buildings , offices , industrial facilities , entertainment places , education facilities , recreation facilities , museums , libraries , and galleries .
We computed Land Use Mix ( LUM ) [ 10 ] in district i as :
LUMi = − n j=1
Pi,j log(Pi,j ) log(n )
( 1 ) where Pi,j is the percentage of square footage with land use j in district i , and n is the number of possible land uses ( in our case , n = 3 ) . If district i ’s land is dedicated
11We exclude districts that are not densely populated ( eg the national park in Rome , the volcano in Naples ) These are marked by the Italian census with an identifier ace equal to zero .
( 1 ) Land use mix ( 2 ) Closeness to small parks ( SPs ) ( 3 ) Residential vs . Non Res . ( 4 ) Housing types ( 5 ) Commercial ( 6 ) Nightlife ( 7 ) Nightlife density ( 8 ) Daily ( 9 ) 3rdPlaces
Small blocks
( 10 ) Block area ( 11 ) Intersections density ( 12 ) Anisotropicity
Aged buildings
( 14 ) building age ( 16 ) σbuilding age ( 17 ) Employees per company
Concentration
( 18 ) Population density ( 19 ) Employment density ( 20 ) population density employee density |internal apartments| ( 21 )
|buildings|
( 22 ) Density of daily places ( 23 ) Density non daily places
Vacuums
( 24 ) Closeness to large parks ( 25 ) Closeness to railways ( 26 ) Closeness to highways ( 27 ) Closeness to water
Mobile phone activity
( 28 ) Activity density
0.73
1 × 10−3
0.67 4.98 0.30 0.10
1 × 10−5 1 × 10−4
0.02
9.61
1 × 10−4
0.38
50.34 12.96 6.98
0.01
5 × 10−3
3.72
15.31
5 × 10−3 3 × 10−3
3 × 10−3 1 × 10−3 6 × 10−4 1 × 10−3
3.84
Table 4 : Urban diversity metrics plus mobile Internet activity . Most variables are not normally distributed . Density measures are computed with surface area in m2 , and closeness measures are the inverse of the distance ( 1/m ) . to one use only , then LU Mi is zero ; instead , if the land is used equally in all n ways , then LU Mi is one . The higher LU Mi , the more mixed i ’s land use . We defined the three land uses following the recommendations in [ 28 ] : the first land use is “ residential ” ; the second includes the categories “ commercial ” , “ institutional and governmental ” , and “ resource and industrial ” ; and the third includes “ park and recreational ” and “ water ” .
Since well managed parks might well function as hubs for pedestrian activity , we defined the average distance from the nearest small park ( area smaller than 1 km2 ) for each district i :
Closeness to SMi = ( j∈Bi
1 |Bi| dist(j , closest(j , SM ) ) )
−1 we computed :
3rdplacesi =
|3rdplacesi| |placesi|
( 9 )
Small blocks
We determined whether a place is a third place or not by following the 4 category classification proposed by Jeffres et al . [ 20 ] . Third places fall into these four categories : eating , drinking and talking ( eg , coffee shops , bars , pubs , restaurants , and cafes ) ; organized activities contributing to social capital [ 33 ] ( eg , places of worship , clubs , organizations , community centers , and senior centers ) ; outdoor ( eg , plazas and parks ) ; and commercial venues ( eg , stores , malls , shopping centers , markets , beauty salons , and barber shops ) . 512 Jacobs listed the presence of small blocks as the second necessary condition for diversity . Small blocks are believed to support stationary activities and provide opportunities for short term and low intensity contacts , easing interactions with other people in a relaxed and relatively undemanding way . Specifically , she stated that “ lowly , unpurposeful and random as they may appear , sidewalk contacts are the small change from which a city ’s wealth of public life may grow ” . She criticized super blocks and rectangular blocks , which constrain urban mobility with high travel distances and limited opportunities of cross use .
The easiest way to identify small blocks is to compute the average block area among the set Bi of blocks in district i :
Block areai =
1 |Bi| areaj
( 10 ) j∈Bi
Since a district with high intersections density is likely to contribute to random contacts , we also computed : |intersectionsi|
Intersection densityi = areai
( 11 )
Finally , since block size is distributed as a power law
Ar with r ∼ 2 , we characterized a district i by its P ( A ) ∼ 1 average shape anisotropicity [ 25 ] of the blocks Bi within it :
District anisotropicityi =
1 |Bi|
Φj
( 12 ) j∈Bi where Φj is the ratio between the area of the block j and the area of its circumscribed circle Cj :
Φj = areaj areaCj
( 13 )
The quantity Φj is always smaller than one , and the larger its value , the less anisotropic block j , the more opportunities for contacts the block creates .
All those metrics were computed using the district net area areai , which excludes unpopulated patches such as rivers and natural parks . 513 Aged buildings Jacobs stressed the importance of having old buildings in a district . If a district has only new buildings , then it would have only enterprises that can support the high costs of new constructions . If it has old buildings too , instead , it would be able to incubate new small enterprises that cannot afford high rents , and that will benefit the local economy in the long run : “ If the incubation is successful enough , the yield of the building can , and often does , rise ” [ 19 ] .
( 2 ) where Bi is the set of blocks in district i , closest(j , Y ) is a function that finds the geographically closest element in set Y from block j ’s centroid , SM is the set of small parks , and dist(a , b ) is the geographic distance between two elements’ centroids a and b .
We also computed the Residential/Non Residential ( RNR ) balance in district i as :
RNRi = 1 − | Resi − N onResi
Resi + N onResi
|
( 3 ) where Resi is the area occupied by residential buildings in district i , and N onResi is the area occupied by nonresidential ones . The higher RN Ri , the more balanced the district in terms of residential vs . non residential uses .
To go beyond horizontal land use and look at vertical development , we computed the average number of floors per building in district i and called it ‘housing types’ ( as [ 40 ] did ) :
Housing typesi =
( 4 ) where hc,i is the number of buildings that are in height category c in district i , and zc is the number of floors corresponding to height category c . The sums were repeated over all height categories ( ie , over the categories E17 E20 in Table 1 ) .
The previous definitions have characterized spatial use in terms of land use and building use . However , activities are important too . Jacobs argued for mixing primary uses so that people are on the street at different times of the day . To characterize spatial use in terms of activities , upon Foursquare data , we determined whether each place is used daily ( eg , convenience stores , restaurants , sport facilities ) or not , and whether it is used at night or daylight [ 40 ] . Based on that , we defined : c hc,i · zc c hc,i
Commerciali =
Nightlifei =
|non daily use placesi|
|placesi|
|nightlife placesi|
|placesi| |nightlife placesi|
Nightlife densityi = areai
Dailyi = (
1 |Bi| dist(j , closest(j , D) ) )
−1 j∈Bi
( 5 )
( 6 )
( 7 )
( 8 ) where D is the set of places that are used daily , and Bi is , again , the set of street blocks in district i .
Also , not all activities are equal . There are activities that are more ‘social’ than others . To capture that , we resorted to the concept of third places . These are defined by Oldeburg [ 30 ] as the “ great , good places ” that foster community and communication among people outside home ( the first place ) and work ( the second place ) : “ they are places where people gather primarily to enjoy each others’ company ” . Third Places function as unique public spaces for social interaction , providing a context for sociability , spontaneity , community building and emotional expressiveness [ 31 ] . Therefore ,
As a first measure , we computed the average building age in district i :
Building agei = b |buildingb,i| · oldb b |buildingb,i|
( 14 )
This measures how old , on average , a building in district i is . Since age is expressed in age bands in the Italian census ( the first band is E8 in Table 1 , and the last is E16 ) , we needed to compute the temporal length of each band . More specifically , for each band b in the range [ startb , endb ] , we computed :
( last − startb ) + ( last − endb ) oldb =
2
( 15 ) where last is the year of the latest built building in the whole census data . Then , in equation ( 14 ) , we weighted age band b ’s temporal length ( oldb ) by the number of buildings in that band ( |buildingb,i| ) , and that gave us the average age of the district ’s buildings .
We also computed the corresponding standard deviation as :
σbuilding agei = b |buildingb,i| 2 · σ2 , b |buildingb,i|2
( 16 ) where σ2 is the standard deviation of the number of buildings in each band . The higher the standard deviation , the higher the district ’s heterogeneity in terms of building age .
Finally , we computed the average number of employees per company in district i :
Employees per companyi =
1 |Fi| j∈Fi employees(j )
( 17 ) where Fi is the set of companies in district i . 514 Concentration Jacobs ’s fourth and final condition is about having concentration of ( both residential and non residential ) buildings and of people . Similarly to Sung et al . [ 40 ] , we computed two sets of concentration measures : one for people , and the other for buildings .
First , population and employment density measures were calculated dividing the number of people ( employees ) by the district ’s net area .
Population densityi =
|Populationi| areai
Employment densityi =
|Employed peoplei| areai
( 18 )
( 19 )
We then computed the interaction term between those two measures as the ratio between population density and employment density :
Population densityi Employment densityi
( 20 )
The higher it is , the more residents ( as opposed to employees ) in the district . Different values correspond to districts with different social textures .
To add to those people based concentration measures one building based measure , we computed : internali =
|internal apartmentsi|
|buildingsi|
Closeness to Hi = (
Closeness to Ai = (
1 |Bi|
1 |Bi| dist(j , closest(j , H) ) )
−1 dist(j , closest(j , A) ) )
−1
( 26 )
( 27 )
( 21 )
12We took areas identified by leisure=park , filtering out the parks with barrier . which is the average number of apartments per building .
Finally , as we have done previously , to go beyond people and buildings and look at activities , we computed : |daily use placesi|
Density of daily placesi = areai
( 22 )
Density of non daily placesi =
|non daily use placesi| areai
( 23 ) These two quantities are not totally anti correlated to each other since not all places can be classified as being fully daily vs . non daily . 515 Vacuums Border vacuums are places that act as physical obstacles to pedestrian activity . For instance , parks can be a hub of pedestrian activity , if efficiently managed [ 19 ] , but they could also be deplorable places in which criminality flourishes ( especially at night ) . In a similar way , the proximity to expressways may discourage pedestrian activity or may effectively connect different parts of the city . This is what Jacobs called “ the curse of border vacuums ” .
Therefore , we needed to identify large areas with single use . From OSM , we took parks12 , and , from the Urban ATLAS , we took railway areas , fast transit zones , rivers , lakes , and highways . That extraction allowed us to build the sets of large parks LP , railways R , highways H and water areas W . To verify the impact of a type of vacuum area , say , that of large parks on a district , we calculated the average distance between a district ’s block ( ie , smallest area surrounded by street segments ) and its closest large park :
Closeness to LPi = (
1 |Bi| dist(j , closest(j , LP ) ) )
−1
( 24 ) where dist(j , closest(j , LP ) is the distance between block j and its closest large park . The sum of distances is done over all blocks in district i ( Bi is indeed the set of district i ’s blocks ) .
The next type of vacuum area is that of railways . Our dataset did not differentiate between rails and stations . However , in terms of pedestrian activity , the two differ : often , rails act as obstacles of activity , while stations act as hubs . To incorporate that distinction , we excluded the stations ( ie , the 600 meter buffer areas around them ) from the set R of railways , and computed :
Closeness to Ri = (
1 |Bi| dist(j , closest(j , R) ) )
−1
( 25 ) j∈Bi
In a similar way , we computed the average distance between a district ’s block and its closest highway , and its closest water area : j∈Bi j∈Bi j∈Bi
Figure 1 : District activity density in Milan ( left ) and Rome ( right ) , and their corresponding values of mixed land use ( LUM ) . The colors are in logarithmic scale . where H and A are the sets of highways and of water areas . 5.2 Activity density
As it has been extensively done in previous work , we used mobile Internet activity as a proxy for urban vitality .
To roughly estimate the number of Internet connections that fell into each district , we needed to represent the urban space somehow . We chose to represent it as a set of 2 dimensional , non overlapping , and non convex polygons . These polygons come from a Voronoi tessellation based on the radio stations’ positions .
Then , to estimate the number of Internet call records Si(t ) in each district i at time t , we counted the number of Internet connections over all polygons v ’s that fell into district i : v
Si(t ) =
Rv(t )
Av∩i
Av − Av∩W
( 28 )
Av∩i
Av−Av∩W
, which is the proportion Av∩i Av where v is a polygon , and Rv(t ) is the number of Internet connections in v at time t . The count of Internet connections is weighted by of v ’s area that falls into district i ( Av∩i is v ’s area that falls into district i , and Av is v ’s total area ) . From v ’s total area we removed sea areas denoted by W ( ie , we removed Av∩W ) . Then , having Si(t ) , we computed a district ’s activity density as the average number of Internet connections throughout a typical business day , divided by the district ’s area . The results for Milan and Rome are shown in Figure 1 . The normalization of surface area makes it possible to compare the activities of districts of different sizes . 5.3 The regression model
We used an Ordinary Least Squares ( OLS ) model to evaluate the relationship between each district ’s structural diversity ( Section 5.1 ) and the district ’s activity density ( Section 52 )
Since most of the regression variables were skewed , we transformed them . More specifically , we log transformed activity density using the natural logarithm , and transformed the structural diversity metrics using the Box Cox method [ 8 ] . To avoid over fitting , we did split the data into training set
( 75 % ) and test set ( 25% ) , and repeated our measurements 1000 times using a shuffle split cross validation .
We created six linear models . First , we created five models , each of which had one of the five sets of Jacobs ’s metrics as independent variables ( ie , we separately analyzed land use , small blocks , aged buildings , concentration , and vacuums ) . Those models always had activity density as dependent variable . The resulting coefficients are shown in the first five columns of Table 5 . We then had a combined model by selecting the independent variables through both recursive feature elimination and stability selection [ 29 ] . The resulting selected variables and corresponding coefficients are shown in the last column of Table 5 .
6 . RESULTS 6.1 Land use
Mixed land use matters only in cities in which functional uses were historically separated like in the case of Milan . By looking at the first two predictors of land use in Table 5 , one learns that mixed land use does not contribute neither positively nor negatively . That is because not all cities are equal : land use in Rome is mixed ( Figure 1 ) , while Milan is separated in functional areas . Consequently , in Milan , vitality is experienced only in the mixed districts . However , the highest beta coefficient concerning land use is found to be related to the presence of third places ( β = 03972 ) Daily errands are important , but third places are more so ( with a Spearman ’s correlation of 0.8337 with activity density ) . These places are public places in which people can hang out for good company and lively conversations , putting aside the concerns of home and work ( their first and second places ) [ 30 ] . Examples of such places include pubs , coffee shops , and taverns . 6.2 Small blocks
Continental European cities do not have the super blocks typical of American cities . This is especially true in Italy , so it comes at no surprise that block size does not greatly matter ( β = 0.0615 in model “ small blocks ” of Table 5 ) . By
−02000204060810LandUseMix−0200020406081012LandUseMix08163472152319Activitydensity×103ROMEMILAN Land use
Small blocks Aged buildings Concentration Vacuums
Combined
0.70 0.0236 0.0409 0.0180 0.1959*** 0.0138 0.0110 0.1107* 0.0440 0.3972***
AdjR2 Land use mix ( 1 ) Closeness to small parks ( SPs ) ( 2 ) Residential vs . Non Res . ( RNR ) ( 3 ) Housing types ( 4 ) Commercial ( 5 ) Night life ( 6 ) Night life density ( 7 ) Daily ( 8 ) 3rdPlaces ( 9 ) Block area ( 10 ) Intersections density ( 11 ) Anisotropicity ( 12 ) building age ( 14 ) σbuilding age ( 16 ) Employees per company ( 17 ) Population density ( 18 ) Employment density ( 19 ) population density employee density ( 20 ) |internal apartments| ( 21 )
|buildings|
Density of daily places ( 22 ) Density non daily places ( 23 ) Closeness large parks ( 24 ) Closeness railways ( 25 ) Closeness highways ( 26 ) Closeness water ( 27 ) 3rdPlaces × Closeness to highways Closeness to SPs × Closeness to highways
0.63
0.40
0.73
0.19
0.77
0.0615 0.7380*** 0.0462
0.3689*** 0.2264*** 0.0778
0.1480 0.7401*** 0.3020*
0.0220
0.2046** 0.1061
0.1854***
0.1914***
0.4344***
0.1384** 0.1745*** 0.3457*** 0.0991
0.1018***
0.0681** 0.0788**
Table 5 : Linear regression models that predict district activity density . Each column is a different model . For each model ’s column , the table reports the model ’s predictive power ( Adjusted R2 in the first row ) and the β coefficients . Blank cells correspond to variables that are absent from the model . As for statistical significance , we use the following notation : *p < 0.05 , **p < 0.01 , ***p < 0001
. contrast , the density of intersections does matter : vibrant urban areas are those with dense streets , which , in fact , slow down cars and make it easier for pedestrian to cross [ 9 ] , creating what Jane Jacobs called the “ sidewalk ballet ” . This ‘ballet’ goes beyond simple pedestrian activity . It is about informal contacts and public trust ( eg , children playing on the street , adults other than their parents paying attention to them , leaving home keys with shopkeepers ) . To increase the potential for such types of interactions , it is essential to be able to look into each others’ eyes , and only small streets could foster that . 6.3 Aged buildings
In large American cities , Jacobs observed that neighborhoods with aged buildings tended to have a diversified local economy . By mingling building of varying age and conditions ( ie , mixing expensive building with “ a good lot of plain , ordinary , low value old buildings , rundown old buildings ” ) , a neighborhood attracts not only standardized and highearning enterprises but also ordinary and innovative ones . Aged buildings were a rarity in American cities . Back in her days , Jacobs noted : “ in Miami Beach , where novelty is the sovereign remedy , hotels ten years old are considered aged and are passed up because others are newer ” [ 19 ] . Decisions about which buildings get to stay and which get to go depend on culture : they are influenced by the relationship that a culture has with time and place . In a neighborhood , the patina of time may be retained , imitated , or removed , as Kevin Lynch puts it [ 27 ] . In Western Europe , the idea of preservation appeared about 1500 and , since then , retention is by far preferred over removal . As a result , Italian districts are defined by age . Central areas are the ancient ones and their surrounding areas followed over time each district ended up having its own era . Consequently , in the Italian context , mixing buildings of different eras is not as important as ( or , rather , as possible as ) it is in the American context . 6.4 Concentration
The last of Jacobs ’s conditions is about dense concentration of people and buildings . In our cities , the most informative purpose is that of office work ( highest beta coefficient for the column named “ Concentration ” of Table 5 ) . This is reasonable as the previous three conditions ( embedded in the regression ) speak to the vitality contributed by residents , and this fourth condition adds to it the vitality contributed by dwellers who likely work in the district . 6.5 Border vacuums
Finally , looking at the “ vacuums ” model in Table 5 , we observe little effect of border vacuums . Surprisingly , railways or rivers which might hamper pedestrian activity at times seem , instead , to be effectively integrated in the social fabric of active districts . However , as one expects , highways are not : in general , being close to them ends up being detrimental ( β = −0.3457 in the “ vacuums ” column and β = −0.1018 in the “ combined ” column ) .
Figure 4 shows to which extent ( in terms of β coefficients ) each of Jacobs ’s four conditions explains district activity . 6.6 Summary
Taken together , our results suggest that Jacobs ’s four conditions for maintaining a vital urban life hold for Italian cities as well ( see Figure 4 ) . From Figure 4 and the last column of Table 5 , we see that as much as 77 % of the variability of district activity is explained by simple structural and static features . As Figure 2 details , even individual features are strongly associated with activity .
Also , the extent to which the different features matter does not dramatically change across cities . To partly verify that , we took the largest and smallest cities : Rome and Firenze . As Figure 3 suggests , all the main features mattered to a very similar extent .
Based on our findings , to paraphrase the four conditions in the Italian context , we might say that :
Active Italian districts have dense concentrations of office workers , third places at walking distance , small streets , and historical buildings .
Figure 3 : The β coefficients of two city specific linear regression models for Roma and Firenze .
Figure 2 : Plots of district activity as a function of intersection density , housing types , employment density , and closeness to highways . A district ’s activity is strongly associated with the district ’s static structural features .
Figure 4 : The predictive power of Jacobs ’s features . The bar size is proportional to the absolute β value in the linear regression model . The first column shows individual features , and the second shows grouped features . The three grouped features concentration , land use , and small blocks plus vacuum areas explain 77 % of the variability of activity density .
7 . DISCUSSION
After having operationalized Jane Jacobs ’s four conditions , we now discuss our work ’s practical and theoretical implications , and the questions it left open .
Practical Implications . We foresee several practical implications of our work :
City dashboards . Part of our work could inform the selection of which features should go into a city dashboard . We
Intersectionsdensity−9−8−7−6−5−4−3−2ActivityDensity¯R2:063HousingtypesActivityDensity¯R2:048−3−2−10123Employmentdensity−9−8−7−6−5−4−3−2ActivityDensity¯R2:069−3−2−10123ClosenesshighwaysActivityDensity¯R2:011−02−0100010203040506βcoefficientEmploymentdensityHousingtypesIntersectionsdensityClosenesstohighwaysClosenesstoSPsXClosenesstohighways3rdPlacesXClosenesstohighwaysRomaFirenzeCONCENTRATIONLAND USESMALL BLOCKSVACUUMSCLOSENESS TO HIGHWAYSCLOSENESS TO SMALL PARKS XCLOSENESS TO HIGHWAYSEMPLOYMENT DENSITYHOUSING TYPESINTERSECTIONS DENSITY3rd PLACES XCLOSENESS TO HIGHWAYS have shown that a variety of structural features of the built environment are closely linked to district activity . Given the importance of those features and the ease with which they could be computed upon web and official data , city dashboards could show and track them and , in so doing , could support well informed decisions by policy makers , urbanists , and architects .
Quantifying regulatory interventions . In his paper ‘A City is Not a Tree’ [ 1 ] , Christopher Alexander argued that the variety and diversity essential for urban vitality was being destroyed by the implementation of zoning laws . Our work has focused on urban diversity features , the very features that zoning laws impact . To track the impact of a regulation , one now knows which features to contrast before and after the implementation of the regulation .
Place recommendation . How to best place retail stores ? Researchers have recently tried to answer that question with semi automatic mechanisms that identify the amenities that are missing from a neighborhood . Hidalgo et al . [ 17 ] analysed the economic diversity of neighborhoods to recommend new places for them . Similar analyses could profit from the addition of our work ’s structural features to the already present economic ones .
Theoretical Implications . Some of Jane Jacobs ’s theories continue to be controversial , while others have been criticized for their non verifiability . This study showed that those theories not only are verifiable but also are still important today and valid in the European context too .
Limitations . Our measure of activity has been assumed to be a good proxy for city ’s vitality . However , that measure has left out one important factor that might be extracted in the future : temporal dynamics of district activity ( eg , differences between day and night ) . Also , if one were to have individual calls records instead of ( as in our case ) aggregate ones , one could well extract additional factors : duration of individual stays , radius of gyration , and identification of particular segments of the population ( eg , pedestrians vs . non pedestrians , residents vs . dwellers ) . Finally , it would be difficult to fully replicate this study without call records . Those records were difficult to obtain in the past but have now been increasingly made publicly available by telecoms operators for research purposes [ 2 ] .
8 . CONCLUSION
For the first time , we verified Jane Jacobs ’s four conditions necessary for the promotion of urban life in the Italian context . We have done so by operationalizing her concepts in new ways : we used mobile phone records to extract a proxy for urban vitality , and web data to extract structural proxies for urban diversity . As Jacobs envisioned , vitality and diversity are intimately linked .
Until now , the research community has relied on limited data sets that reflect how a group of people experience bits of the city . Here we have found that web data and mobile records offer insights on how most urban dwellers experience entire cities . Web data ( especially Open Street Map data ) is available around the world , and mobile phone records have been increasingly made publicly available by telecoms operators in search of new business models . As such , our study can be replicated at scale without resorting to lengthy and costly survey based data collection .
By collecting bread crumbs from cell phones , social media , and participatory platforms , researchers will increasingly rely on data sets orders of magnitude richer than previous urban studies data sets [ 3 ] and , consequently , they will be able to test traditional urban theories in fine grained detail a totally new way to look at cities .
9 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank OpenStreetMap and all its contributors for making their data freely available .
10 . REFERENCES
[ 1 ] C . Alexander . A city is not a tree . Architectural Forum ,
1965 .
[ 2 ] G . Barlacchi , M . De Nadai , R . Larcher , A . Casella ,
C . Chitic , G . Torrisi , F . Antonelli , A . Vespignani , A . Pentland , and B . Lepri . A multi source dataset of urban life in the city of Milan and the Province of Trentino . Scientific data , 2015 .
[ 3 ] M . Batty . Big data , smart cities and city planning .
Dialogues in Human Geography , 3(3):274–279 , 2013 . [ 4 ] L . M . Bettencourt , J . Lobo , D . Helbing , C . K¨uhnert , and G . B . West . Growth , innovation , scaling , and the pace of life in cities . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 104(17):7301–7306 , 2007 .
[ 5 ] V . Blondel , A . Decuyper , and G . Krings . A survey of results on mobile phone datasets analysis . EPJ Data Science , 4(10 ) , 2015 .
[ 6 ] A . Bogomolov , B . Lepri , J . Staiano , E . Letouz´e ,
N . Oliver , F . Pianesi , and A . Pentland . Moves on the street : Classifying crime hotspots using aggregated anonymized data on people dynamics . Big Data , 3(3):148–158 , 2015 .
[ 7 ] A . Bogomolov , B . Lepri , J . Staiano , N . Oliver ,
A . Pianesi , and A . Pentland . Once upon a crime : Towards crime prediction from demographics and mobile data . In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Multimodal Interaction , pages 427–434 , 2014 .
[ 8 ] G . E . Box and D . R . Cox . An analysis of transformations . Journal of the Royal Statistical Society . Series B ( Methodological ) , pages 211–252 , 1964 .
[ 9 ] P . Calthorpe . The Next American Metropolis : Ecology ,
Community , and the American Dream . Princeton Architectural Press , 1993 .
[ 10 ] R . Cervero . Land use mixing and suburban mobility . University of California Transportation Center , 1989 .
[ 11 ] N . Eagle , M . Macy , and R . Claxton . Network diversity and economic development . Science , 328(5981):1029–1031 , 2010 .
[ 12 ] S . S . Fainstein . New directions in planning theory .
Urban affairs review , 35(4):451–478 , 2000 .
[ 13 ] E . Glaeser . Triumph of the city : How our greatest invention makes us richer , smarter , greener , healthier , and happier . Penguin Press , 2011 .
[ 14 ] M . Gonzalez , C . Hidalgo , and L . Barabasi .
[ 29 ] N . Meinshausen and P . B¨uhlmann . Stability selection .
Understanding individual mobility patterns . Nature , 453(7196):779–782 , 2008 .
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society : Series B ( Statistical Methodology ) , 72(4):417–473 , 2010 .
[ 15 ] P . Gordon , S . Ikeda , et al . Does density matter ?
[ 30 ] R . Oldenburg . The Great Good Place : Caf´e , Coffee
Chapters , 2011 .
[ 16 ] S . Grauwin , S . Sobolevsky , S . Moritz , I . G´odor , and
C . Ratti . Towards a comparative science of cities : Using mobile traffic records in new york , london , and hong kong . In Computational Approaches for Urban Environments , pages 363–387 . Springer , 2015 .
[ 17 ] C . A . Hidalgo and E . E . Casta˜ner . Do we need another coffee house ? the amenity space and the evolution of neighborhoods . arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.02868 , 2015 .
[ 18 ] S . Isaacman , R . Becker , R . C´aceres , S . Kobourov ,
M . Martonosi , J . Rowland , and A . Varshavsky . Identifying important places in people ’s lives from cellular network data . In Pervasive computing , pages 133–151 . Springer , 2011 .
[ 19 ] J . Jacobs . The death and life of American cities .
Random House , 1961 .
[ 20 ] L . W . Jeffres , C . C . Bracken , G . Jian , and M . F . Casey . The impact of third places on community quality of life . Applied Research in Quality of Life , 4(4):333–345 , 2009 . [ 21 ] K . King . Jane Jacobs and “ the need for aged buildings’ :
Neighbourhood historical development pace and community social relations . Urban Studies , 2013 . [ 22 ] K . Kung , K . Greco , S . Sobolevsky , and C . Ratti .
Exploring universal patterns in human home work commuting from mobile phone data . PloS one , 9((6):e96180 ) , 2014 .
[ 23 ] M . Lenormand , M . Picornell , O . G . Cant´u Ros ,
T . Louail , R . Herranz , M . Barthelemy , E . Fr´ıas Mart´ınez , M . S . Miguel , and J . J . Ramasco . Comparing and modeling land use organization in cities . arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.06152 , 2015 .
[ 24 ] T . Louail , M . Lenormand , O . G . C . Ros , M . Picornell ,
R . Herranz , E . Frias Martinez , J . J . Ramasco , and M . Barthelemy . From mobile phone data to the spatial structure of cities . Scientific reports , 4 , 2014 .
[ 25 ] R . Louf and M . Barthelemy . A typology of street patterns . Journal of The Royal Society Interface , 11(101 ) , 2014 .
[ 26 ] K . Lynch . The image of the city , volume 11 . MIT press ,
1960 .
[ 27 ] K . Lynch . What Time is this Place ? MIT Press , 1972 . [ 28 ] K . Manaugh and T . Kreider . What is mixed use ? presenting an interaction method for measuring land use mix . Journal of Transport and Land Use , 6(1):63–72 , 2013 .
Shops , Community Centers , Beauty Parlors , General Stores , Bars , Hangouts , and How They Get You through the Day . Paragon House Publishers , 1989 .
[ 31 ] R . Oldenburg and D . Brissett . The third place .
Qualitative sociology , 5(4):265–284 , 1982 .
[ 32 ] L . Porzi , S . Rota Bulo , B . Lepri , and E . Ricci .
Predicting and understanding urban perception with convolutional neural networks . In Proceedings of the ACM MultiMedia . ACM , 2015 .
[ 33 ] R . D . Putnam . Bowling alone : The collapse and revival of American community . Simon and Schuster , 2001 .
[ 34 ] D . Quercia , L . M . Aiello , R . Schifanella , and A . Davies .
The digital life of walkable streets . In International Conference on World Wide Web , pages 875–884 , 2015 .
[ 35 ] D . Quercia , N . K . O’Hare , and H . Cramer . Aesthetic capital : what makes london look beautiful , quiet , and happy ? In ACM conference on Computer supported cooperative work & social computing , pages 945–955 , 2014 .
[ 36 ] D . Quercia , J . Pesce , V . Almeida , and J . Crowcroft .
Psychological maps 2.0 : A web gamification enterprise starting in london . In Proceedings of ACM Conference on World Wide Web ( WWW ) , 2013 .
[ 37 ] P . Salesses , K . Schechtner , and C . A . Hidalgo . The collaborative image of the city : mapping the inequality of urban perception . PloS one , 8(7):e68400 , 2013 .
[ 38 ] C . Smith Clarke , A . Mashhadi , and L . Capra . Poverty on the cheap : Estimating poverty maps using aggregated mobile communication networks . In ACM conference on Human factors in computing systems , pages 511–520 , 2014 .
[ 39 ] C . Song , Z . Qu , N . Blumm , and A . Barabasi . Limits of predictability in human mobility . Science , 327(5968):1018–1021 , 2010 .
[ 40 ] H . Sung , S . Lee , and S . Cheon . Operationalizing jane jacobs ’s urban design theory : Empirical verification from the great city of seoul , korea . Journal of Planning Education and Research , 35(2):117–130 , 2015 .
[ 41 ] M . Traunmueller , G . Quattrone , and L . Capra . Mining mobile phone data to investigate urban crime theories at scale . In International Conference on Social Informatics , pages 396–411 , 2014 .
[ 42 ] Y . Zheng , L . Capra , O . Wolfson , and Y . Hai . Urban computing : Concepts , methodologies , and applications . ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology , 5 , 2014 .
