5 1 0 2 l u J
8 2
]
Y C . s c [
1 v 2 3 6 7 0
.
7 0 5 1 : v i X r a
Geography of Emotion : Where in a City are People
Happier ?
Luciano Gallegos
USC Information Science
Institute
Marina del Rey , CA 90292 lucianogallegos@gmailcom
Kristina Lerman
USC Information Science
Institute
Marina del Rey , CA 90292 lerman@isi.edu David Garcia
ETH Zurich
8092 Zurich , Switzerland dgarcia@ethz.ch
Arthur Huang
Tarleton State University Stephenville , TX 76402 ahuang@tarleton.edu
ABSTRACT Location sharing services were built upon people ’s desire to share their activities and locations with others . By “ checkingin ” to a place , such as a restaurant , a park , gym , or train station , people disclose where they are , thereby providing valuable information about land use and utilization of services in urban areas . This information may , in turn , be used to design smarter , happier , more equitable cities . We use data from Foursquare location sharing service to identify areas within a major US metropolitan area with many check ins , ie , areas that people like to use . We then use data from the Twitter microblogging platform to analyze the properties of these areas . Specifically , we have extracted a large corpus of geo tagged messages , called tweets , from a major metropolitan area and linked them US Census data through their locations . This allows us to measure the sentiment expressed in tweets that are posted from a specific area , and also use that area ’s demographic properties in analysis . Our results reveal that areas with many check ins are different from other areas within the metropolitan region . In particular , these areas have happier tweets , which also encourage people from other areas to commute longer distances to these places . These findings shed light on human mobility patterns , as well as how physical environment influences human emotions .
Categories and Subject Descriptors [ Information systems applications ] : Spatial temporal systems—Location based services ; [ Information retrieval ] : Retrieval tasks and goals—Sentiment analysis
General Terms Information systems
Keywords census tract , human mobility , location sharing services , sentiment analysis , social media
1 .
INTRODUCTION
Happiness is an intrinsic goal of human activity . Although people have been pondering for centuries about what leads to happiness and how best to attain it , it is only in the last few decades that researchers were able to study happiness empirically . Psychologists and economists designed surveys to quantify an individual ’s subjective level of happiness , subjective well being , or satisfaction with life , which then allowed them to study how responses to survey questions are related to socio economic and demographic factors . Using such data , Easterlin [ 10 ] famously found that high incomes correlate with happiness .
More recently , researchers explored the geographic and environmental factors that affect happiness . They found that proximity to amenities , such as the coast or major routes of transportation , lead to higher levels of subjective well being , while proximity to a landfill negatively affects well being [ 1 ] . Such findings offer guidelines for city planners and policy makers for designing urban areas that promote happiness and maximize equity in the distribution of resources .
One drawback of the earlier studies is that they relied on questionnaires and surveys to collect data on subjective well being and happiness . Such data are expensive to collect , and thus limited studies to small populations , obscuring small but significant trends . However , the rise of social media — and location sharing services in particular — has given researchers an unprecedented access to geo located data for studying the interplay between geography and happiness on a much bigger scale and more precise temporal and geographical resolutions . Despite these advantages , social media data sources suffer from self selection and demographic biases [ 33 ] , and thus provide an alternative approach to survey data rather than a strict improvement . It is in the combination of different methodologies that we can derive new knowledge , rather than by using each separately and arguing about which one is best .
The microblogging service Twitter , for example , allows people to share short text updates with their followers and attach geographic coordinates to these posts . In addition , location sharing services , such as Facebook Places , Gowalla , and Foursquare , allow users to simply announce their arrival to some place by “ checking in ” to a “ venue ” , which is a geotagged place identified by a short name . Users can either use an existing venue or create a new one . Users can even link their accounts across services , so that their Foursquare check ins are announced to their Twitter followers or Facebook friends . Researchers have used these publicly available location data to study human mobility [ 24 ] , track people ’s movement [ 5 ] , and explore urban land use [ 34 ] .
The availability of text on social media platforms also enabled researchers to analyze the sentiment of the messages and the emotional state of individuals posting them . Sentiment analysis has received much attention from the research community [ 20 ] , since it allows people to monitor sentiment on a global scale [ 16 ] — an impossible task if one had to rely on surveys to measure people ’s emotional states [ 27 ] . For example , Kramer [ 21 ] built a sentiment score for Facebook status updates and found that it correlates well with the self reported satisfaction with life at the national level . Although Kramer ’s study suggested that one might be able to gauge a whole nation ’s subjective well being and overall emotional health from the sentiment expressed on social media , it is not clear how sentiment varies on a microlevel , eg , within communities or city neighborhoods . Eagle et al . [ 8 ] showed that the subjective well being of communities strongly correlates with network diversity , where members of well off communities have diverse networks while members of economically and socially disadvantaged communities have insular social relations . Alshamsi et al . [ 3 ] studied the effectiveness of social media in mapping happiness at finer spatial resolution and found that happy areas tend to interact with other happy areas ( ie , homophily ) , although they did not use other urban indicators such as demographics or mobility [ 5 , 24 ] .
In this paper , we combined social media data from Twitter and Foursquare with demographic data from the US Census to carry out micro analysis of geography and emotion . Specifically , we used Foursquare check ins to identify areas within a major US metropolitan area that people like to use . These are the places with amenities , such as parks , restaurants , public transportation , and gyms . We then analyzed properties of these places by looking at geo tagged messages , or tweets , coming from those areas . We linked the tweets to US Census tracts through their locations . Census tracts are small areas that are relatively homogeneous with respect to population characteristics , economic status , and living conditions . This allows us to link the sentiment expressed in tweets that are posted from different census tracts with those tracts’ demographic properties .
Our results reveal that areas with many check ins are different from other areas within the city . In particular , these areas have happier tweets , which also encourage people from other areas to commute longer distances to these places . These findings shed light on human mobility patterns , as well as how physical and environment influences human emotions that can be used to design smarter , happier , more equitable cities .
2 . RELATED WORKS
Foursquare and Twitter . Researchers reported [ 6 , 24 ] that Foursquare users usually check in at venues they perceived as more interesting and express actions similar to other social media , such as Facebook and Twitter . Foursquare checkins are , in many cases , biased : while some users provide important feedback by checking in at venues and share their engagement , others subvert the rules by deliberately creating unofficial duplicate and nonexistent venues [ 7 ] .
The high availability of Foursquare and Twitter data transmitted from mobile devices has also been subject to human mobility research [ 9 ] . More specifically , some researchers used Radius of Gyration ( rg ) [ 18 ] to characterize and quantify human mobility . For example , Noulas et al . [ 24 ] applied rg to conduct a large scale study of user behaviour and Foursquare check ins with 700K users spanning a period of more than 100 days . The study revealed users’ temporal and mobility patterns ( the majority of users moved between 1 and 10 km and expended 100 and 2000 minutes to do so ) in urban locations . Usually , human mobility is measured at the individual ’s level of granularity , disclosing the users’ profile as well as their personal mobility patterns , which potentially discloses information that the user may prefer to keep private [ 3 ] .
Other researcher used demographic factors and associated them to sentiment analysis to measure happiness in different places . For instance , Mitchell et al . [ 23 ] generated taxonomies of US states and cities based on their similarities in word use and estimates the happiness levels of these states and cities . Then , the authors correlated highlyresolved demographic characteristics with happiness levels and connected word choice and message length with urban characteristics such as education levels and obesity rates , showing that social media may potentially be used to estimate real time levels and changes in population scale measures , such as obesity rates . Eagle et al . [ 8 ] built communication networks from phone records across the entire United Kingdom , cross referenced it with Census data , and showed that members of well off communities have diverse networks , while members of economically and socially disadvantaged communities have insular social relations . Quercia et al . [ 28 , 34 ] used the Index of Multiple Deprivation ( ie , qualitative study of deprived areas in the UK local councils ) to compute happiness based on small areas , providing promising fine grained , micro level results . Alshamsi et al . [ 3 ] studied the effectiveness of social media in mapping happiness with finer spatial resolution and , similar to [ 27 ] , found that happy areas tend to interact with other happy areas ( ie , homophily ) , although other indicators such as demographic data and human mobility were not used in their research [ 5 , 24 ] .
Inspired by these related works but exploring alternative approaches , we propose to use US Census tract and demographic factors to study the Los Angeles County , a large and diverse metropolitan area , and link these data with geotagged check ins and tweets . Our goal is to characterize differences between areas in Los Angeles that contain amenities , or venues that people check in , to areas that do not . We compare the sentiment expressed in tweets that are posted from these areas and identify the physical and demographic factors that influence human emotions .
A number of innovative research works attempted to better understand human emotion and mobility . Some of these works focuses on geo tagged location data extracted from
3 . DATA We collected a large body of tweets from Los Angeles ( LA )
County over the course of 4 months , starting in July 2014 . Our data collection strategy was as follows . First , we used Twitter ’s location search API to collect tweets from an area that included Los Angeles County . We then used Twitter4J API to collect all ( timeline ) tweets from users who tweeted from within this area during this time period . A portion of these tweets were geo tagged , ie they had geographic coordinates attached to them . In all , we collected 6M tweets , of which 700K made by 24K distinct users were geo tagged . We localized geo tagged tweets to tracts from the 2012 US Census.1 A tract is a geographic region that is defined for the purpose of taking a census of a population , containing about 4,000 residents on average , and is designed to be relatively homogeneous with respect to socio economic characteristics of that population . We included only Los Angeles County tracts in the analysis . A sample of the 2010 Los Angeles Census tract map is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Los Angeles Census tract map . Tracts are colored by the number of Foursquare check ins within them .
Some Foursquare users link their accounts to Twitter , so that their check ins will be visible to their Twitter followers . Such check in tweets were automatically generated and had a specific format , eg , “ I’m at 1K Studios ( Burbank , CA ) http : //t.co/3W 5ymDM 5EI ” , “ I’m at @Specialtys Cafe & Bakery in Glendale , CA https : //t.co/IeHOY 6Bbbz ” , “ I’m at Bossa Nova Brazilian Cuisine @bossanovaeats ( West Hollywood , CA ) http : //t.co/pGHsM V GE3v ” . We created parsers to extract the location and venue from these tweets . In all , we extracted 5,863 check ins from 687 tracts around Los Angeles County . The tracts in Figure 1 are colored by the number of check ins within their boundaries .
4 . METHODS 1American Fact Finder
The field of sentiment analysis [ 26 ] aims at developing tools that process text to quantify subjective states , including opinions and emotions . Early developments in sentiment analysis extracted opinions from text , coining the term opinion mining . Later research focused on emotions , applying both supervised and unsupervised techniques to infer emotional states from text . Two recent independent surveys evaluated different sentiment analysis tools in various social media [ 17 ] and in a benchmark of datasets from Twitter [ 2 ] . Across social media , one of the best performing tools is SentiStrength [ 31 ] , which also was shown to be the best unsupervised tool for tweets in various contexts [ 2 ] .
SentiStrength quantifies the emotions expressed in text by applying a lexicon and taking into account intensifiers , negations , misspellings , idioms , and emoticons . We apply the standard English version of SentiStrength to each tweet in our dataset , quantifying positive sentiment P ∈ [ +1 , +5 ] and negative sentiment N ∈ [ −1,−5 ] in a way that is consistent with the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule ( PANAS ) in psychology [ 36 ] . Beyond its accuracy , SentiStrenght has been shown to perform very closely to human raters in validity tests [ 31 ] and has been applied to measure emotions in product reviews [ 15 ] , online chatrooms [ 12 ] , Yahoo answers [ 22 ] , and Youtube comments [ 14 ] . In addition , SentiStrength allows our approach to be applied in the future to other languages , like Spanish [ 4 ] , and to include contextual factors [ 32 ] , like sarcasm [ 29 ] .
Research in psychology shows that emotional experiences contain components in more than two dimensions [ 11 ] , calling for extended analysis that includes multidimensional aspects of emotions . When measured through text , emotional meanings can be quantified through the application of the semantic differential [ 25 ] , a dimensional approach that quantifies emotional meaning in terms of valence , arousal , and dominance [ 30 ] . The dimension of valence quantifies the level of pleasure expressed by a word , arousal measures the level of activity induced by the emotions associated with a word , and dominance quantifies the level of subjective power experienced during an emotion . The state of the art in the quantification of these three dimensions is the lexicon of Warriner , Kuperman , and Brysbaert ( WKB ) [ 35 ] , which includes scores in the three dimensions for almost 14,000 English lemmas . To quantify the valence , arousal , and dominance expressed in a tweet , we lemmatize its content and apply the lexicon to compute mean values of the three dimensions as in [ 19 ] . Thanks to the size of the lexicon , we find emotional terms in 82.39 % of the tweets in our dataset , producing a multidimensional measure of emotion aggregates as expressed through tweets .
Mobility patterns are well correlated with demographics and individual ’s socio economic status and is a current topic of academic research [ 5 ] . Studies of human mobility usually focus on either the small scale ( eg , travel modes of individuals’ daily commutes ) or the large scale ( eg , air travel patterns to track the spread of epidemics over time ) . Some researchers adapted concepts from physics , such as the radius of gyration ( rg ) , to characterize human mobility [ 18 ] . In this paper , we also use rg to quantify a Twitter user ’s mobility . The radius of gyration rg is the standard deviation of distances between the user ’s locations ( given by geolocated tweets ) and the center of mass of those locations . The rg measures both how frequently and how far a user
ÜNumber of Check ins01 3> 30204010KM moves . A low rg indicates a user who travels mainly locally ( with tweets mainly concentrated in a small geographic area ) , while a high radius of gyration indicates a user whose tweets are spread far apart spatially . The rg for a user is defined as [ 18 ] :
1 n n i=1 rg =
( ri − rcm)2
( 1 ) where n is the number of check ins geotagged tweets posted by that user , and ( ri− rcm ) is the distance between a particular tweet ri and the user ’s center of mass rcm . The latter is simply the average location of all tweets .
5 . RESULTS
We first analyze the emotions expressed in tweets posted from different places around Los Angeles County . We find that places with many check ins have tweets that express happier and less negative emotions . We then explore how demographic factors contribute to these observations . Sentiment analysis We use WKB and SentiStrength , described in Section 4 , to measure the emotional content of tweets . WKB quantifies emotion along three dimensions : valence , arousal , and dominance , while SentiStrength quantifies the positive and negative sentiment expressed in tweets . Note that values measured by WKB range from 1 to 9 , with 5 being the neutral score [ 13 ] .
We calculated the mean values of positive ( P ) and negative ( N ) sentiment , as well as mean valence ( V ) , arousal ( A ) , dominance ( D ) of tweets from each tract . Figures 2 and 3 show the distribution of the means of these quantities for all 1718 tracts for which we have tweets ( All LA Tracts ) , the 687 tracts for which we have check ins ( Tracts with Check ins ) , and the 101 tracts with more than three check ins ( Tracts with >3 Check ins ) . Table 1 reports the means of these distributions .
To determine whether the difference in the emotional content of tweets from all tracts is different from the emotional content of tweets from tracts with check ins , we conducted the Wilcoxon rank sum test , testing the null hypothesis that the means of these distributions are the same , and rejecting it only at confidence level of at least 95 % . Comparing the distributions of means , we found that they are significantly different for all measurements , including mean P ( p < 0.01 ) , N ( p < 10−5 ) , V ( p < 10−7 ) , A ( p < 0.01 ) , and D ( p < 10−6 ) . Thus , although the differences between tweets from All LA Tracts and those from Tracts with Check ins are are small , they are significant . This difference increases further as we filter out tracts with less popular venues .
Check in locations in Foursquare can be freely created by users , which gives rise to much noise . Users often create fake , nonsensical , and idiosyncratic locations [ 6 ] that no one else uses . To reduce the impact of such invalid locations on our results , we filter out tracts that have only 1 or 2 checks ins . This leaves 101 tracts with three or more checkins ( out of 697 tracts with check ins ) . The distributions of the mean emotion scores of these tracts are shown in the last column in Figures 2 and 3 , with the means of these distributions summarized in Table 1 . We observe that Tract with >3 Check ins have “ happier ” ( higher valence ) and less negative ( less negative N ) tweets compared to tweets from All LA Tracts or those from Tracts with Check ins . Using the Wilcoxon rank sum test , we found significant difference between the distributions of the means of N ( p < 10−8 ) , V ( p < 10−7 ) , A ( p < 0.001 ) , and D ( p < 10−7 ) ; however , we did not find a difference for P ( p < 01 ) These statistical tests lead us to find differences at a high significance level and thus reject the four null hypothesis above ( the null hypothesis failed to be rejected only for P ) . Comparing emotional content of tweets across all tracts , a trend towards “ happier ” and “ positively excited ” emotional states can be observed for tracts that have more check ins .
Why are tweets from tracts with many check ins happier ? To get insight , we look at the words that are commonly used in these tweets . Figure 4 shows the world cloud of tweets from a single tract without check ins and one tract that has many check ins . The latter tract has words like “ beach ” and “ playa ” ( Spanish for “ beach ” ) , in addition to “ paseo ” and “ esplanade ” , which suggest pleasant places to stroll . While tweets from the first tract have “ Shrine Auditorium ” , which is a popular venue for concerts , they have fewer words associated with pleasant experiences , such as going to the beach , or strolling with friends . Though deeper analysis is required , these results suggest place with checkins offer pleasant amenities , such as the beach , that attract people to those areas . Human mobility Inspired by work such as [ 5 , 18 ] and as detailed in Section 4 , we quantify Twitter user mobility by computing the user ’s “ radius of gyration ” ( rg ) such as in Equation 1 , which represents the average distance between locations from which the user tweets . We aggregate these values to quantify tract mobility Rg as the average radius of gyration of all users tweeting from that tract :
N i=1 rg i
Rg =
1 N where rg i is the radius of gyration of the ith of N users who tweet from that tract . This allows us to compare mobility of tracts with check ins . Figure 5 presents the distributions Rg for different sets of tracts we are comparing : all tracts in LA County with tweets , those tracts with check ins , and tracts with >3 check ins . Are these distributions different ? The means of the distributions are : 191,925 meters for All LA Tracts , 241,261 meters for Tracts with Check ins , and 295,057 meters for Tracts with >3 Check ins . We conducted statistical inferences to test whether these distributions are the same at confidence level of 95 % . These tests show that the means of these distributions are significantly different from each other ( p < 0.001 for all pairwise comparisons ) .
We conclude that people tweeting from tracts with many check ins travel farther , on average , than other people in our data set . Moreover , users tweeting from tracts with more popular places ( >3 check ins ) travel farthest distances . Two distinct mechanisms could explain this difference . First , people may need to travel longer distances to go to the places with more popular amenities . This would suggest that amenities that people want to use are not located equitably , forcing people to travel greater distances to use them . Alternately , however , residents of tracts with more popular amenities could have higher mobility in general ( perhaps ,
Figure 2 : SentiStrength scores distributions by Census tracts — Positive ( top , blue ) and Negative ( bottom , red ) .
Figure 3 : WKB lexicon scores distributions by Census tracts — Valence ( top , blue ) , Arousal ( center , red ) and Dominance ( bottom , green ) .
12141618202201234512141618202201234561214161820220123456All LA Tracts−10−12−14−16−18012345Tracts with Check−ins−10−12−14−16−18012345Tracts with >3 Check−ins−10−12−14−16−180123456Density12345600040812123456000408121234560004081212345001020123450005101512345001020All LA Tracts12345600051015Tracts with Check−ins12345600040812Tracts with >3 Check−ins12345600051015Density Table 1 : Sentiment analysis of tweets from census tracts . The first three columns give the mean values of valence , arousal and dominance of all tweets from the given set of tracts as measured using Warriner ’s lexicon . The last two columns and the mean values of positive and negative sentiment measured by SentiStrength from the same tweets .
Tracts
All LA Tracts
Tracts with Check ins
Tracts with >3 Check ins
# Tracts Valence Arousal Dominance Positive Negative
1718 687 101
4.776 4.870 5.001
3.493 3.534 3.593
4.633 4.712 4.825
1.588 1.598 1.600
1.411 1.393 1.362
WKB Lexicon
SentiStrength
( a )
( b )
Figure 4 : Word cloud of tweets from a single tract from ( a ) All LA Tracts and from ( b ) Tracts with >3 Check ins . they can better afford to travel ) . Although we cannot resolve between these mechanisms due to limitations of our data , doing so will have implications for city planners and land use designers .
Demographics We next examine whether differences between tracts with check ins and those without could be explained by demographics of their residents . For this analysis , we used four demographic factors : median age , ethnicity percentage , employment percentage , and bachelor ’s percentage by tract . Regarding age , the calculated average ( median ) ages are 36 years old for All LA Tracts , 37 for Tracts with Checkins , and 38 for Tracts with >3 Check ins . Since the differences between median ages are small and their distribution shapes are nearly normal , we conducted statistical inferences to test whether means of these distributions are the same at confidence level of 95 % . Median ages differences between All LA Tracts and Tracts with Check ins are different and highly statistically significant ( p < 0.001 ) , as well as between All LA Tracts and Tracts with >3 Checkins ( p < 0.001 ) , whereas differences between Tracts with Check ins and Tracts with >3 Check ins are not significant . These results demonstrate that although the differences between median ages are small , still there is a important finding : residents in locations with check ins and those with >3 check ins tend to be slightly older .
Ethnicity is an important demographic measure . Big cities such as Los Angeles bring together people from all around the world and a variety of ethnic groups . For simplicity , we decided to focus on two different ethnicities : Hispanic and Non Hispanic . Indeed , Los Angeles attracts many Hispanic groups due to its strategic position and border , which makes this city and interesting case study . In Non Hispanic ethnicity tracts , the population mean is 2287 in All LA Tracts , 2744 in Tracts with Check ins and 3379 in Tracts with >3 Check ins . In another direction , Hispanic ethnicity tracts present a opposite trend in the population means : 2009 in All LA Tracts , 1653 in Tracts with Check ins and 1113 Tracts with >3 Check ins . Statistical inferences were also used to test whether means of these distributions are the same at confidence level of 95 % . All null hypothesis were rejected when comparing All LA Tracts , Tracts with Check ins and Tracts with >3 Check ins population means for both Non Hispanic and Hispanic ethnicities , which show the groups of populations are different with highly statistically significant results ( p < 0001 ) Ethnicity results show that tracts with check ins have high Non Hispanic population and lower Hispanic population , suggesting that attractive amenities are located in places where fewer Hispanics live .
Another important demographic measure in cities is employment status of residents . US Census report the percentage of employed residents in each tract , and we use these values in our analysis . Results show that the mean employment percentage of All LA Tracts is 66 % , while Tracts with Check ins is 67 % , and Tracts with >3 Check ins is 69 % . Since employment percentage distributions are nearly normal , we use the Wilcoxon rank sum to test if these distributions are different at confidence level of at least 95 % . While employment percentages differences between All LA Tracts and Tracts with Check ins as well as All LA Tracts and Tracts with >3 Check ins are statistically significant ( p < 0.001 ) , differences between Tracts with Check ins and Tracts with >3 Check ins are smaller but still significant ( p < 005 ) These results show that Tracts with Check ins
Figure 5 : Distribution of user mobility by different sets of tracts . We measure mobility in a tract as average radius of gyration ( in meters ) of users tweeting from that tract . and Tracts with >3 Check ins tend to have higher fraction of employed population .
The last demographic measure we use is education , given by percentage of residents in a tract who have received bachelor ’s degree from a college or university , a master ’s , professional , or doctorate degrees . The bachelor ’s percentage means are : All LA Tracts 19 % , Tracts with Check ins 24 % , and Tracks with >3 Check ins ( >3 ) 30 % . By computing the Wilcoxon rank sum test at confidence level of at least 95 % , we found that all null hypothesis were rejected when comparing All LA Tracts , Tracts with Check ins and Tracts with >3 Check ins bachelor ’s percentage means with highly statistically significant results ( p < 0001 ) These results show that Tracts with Check ins , as well as Tracts with >3 Check ins , are more likely to have better educated population .
Complementing the analysis of results of this section , we also computed correlations between these four demographic measures . Employment percentage and bachelor percentage have a positive correlation ( 0.39 ) , as well as bachelor ’s percentage and Non Hispanic ethnicity ( 0.59 ) , and bachelor ’s percentage and rg ( 050 ) A significant negative correlation occur between bachelor ’s percentage and Hispanic ethnicity ( 0.75 ) , as well as rg and Hispanic ethnicity ( 046 ) Due to the positive correlation of Non Hispanic ethnicity and bachelor ’s percentage , these results also suggest that tracts with better educated residents ( higher bachelor ’s ) tend also to have more employed and more mobile population . Tracts with higher percentage of Hispanic population also have less employed and less educated population , which also tends to be less mobile ( lower rg ) . These correlations corroborate with the analysis of means and their respective statistical inferences results , as described above .
6 . DISCUSSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS
In this paper , we combined geo tagged tweets , Foursquare check ins , and demographic data from the US Census to carry out micro analysis of geography and emotion . Specifically , we used check ins to identify census tracts that contain amenities that people use and publicize their use of these venues through check ins . We then carried out sentiment analysis of the tweets posted by Twitter users from these tracts . This allowed us to link the sentiment expressed by people in different places with the demographic properties of those places , as well as human mobility patterns .
We found that tracts with more check in were happier places . Comparing sentiment scores of tweets from all tracts with tracts with check ins , we observed a shift towards happier , less negative scores . We further filtered data to ignore possibly spurious or fake check ins by removing tracts with fewer than three check ins . We found that tracts with >3 check in are even happier and less negative places than tracts with check ins . However , the positive sentiment scores calculated by SentiStrength were not significantly different . This shows that including additional dimensions in analysis helps portray a more nuanced representation of emotional expression that is more robust with respect to fake content in social media .
Our results reveal that places ( tracts ) with check ins are fundamentally different from other areas within the Los Angeles County . These places offer amenities that people like to use , such as restaurants , parks , beaches , and gyms . Indeed , population of tracts with check ins ( including >3 check ins ) tends to be slightly older , better educated , more employed , and more Non Hispanic , compared to the population of Los Angeles County ( all tracts ) . In addition , people tweeting from tracts with check ins ( and tracts with >3 check ins ) are more mobile , traveling farther , on average , than other people in our data set . This suggests that areas offering desirable amenities encourage people to commute longer distances to use them , although this observation may also be explained if residents of tracts with check ins traveled more than other people .
Researchers have urged caution using when social media data , in particular Twitter , to study social science questions [ 33 ] . Twitter users may not be representative of the population researchers intended to study . Selection bias and other sampling effects could grossly distort the observations researchers make using Twitter data . Although we cannot eliminate all criticisms , we believe that our approach mitigates at least some of these concerns . Specifically , we con
All LA Tracts0100000020000003000000400000002004006008001000Tracts with Check−ins01000000200000030000004000000050100150200250300Tracts with >3 Check−ins010000002000000300000040000000102030405060Frequency ducted a comparative analysis of user populations . Since our analysis considers differences between populations , rather than populations themselves , it is less susceptible to selection and other biases , because these will affect all populations .
Despite this , there are still limitations of our data and analysis , which prevent us from drawing important conclusions from these findings . One fundamental issue is that we are not able to distinguish between residents and visitors to the area . While demographic analysis applies to residents , we have extended it to all people tweeting from the tract . Another concern is that Foursquare users are different , perhaps they are younger and better educated , so using them to select “ attractive ” tracts may skew the data . Further work is required to address these questions . However , even with these caveats , social media offers an intriguing data source for monitoring happiness in urban areas and exploring the questions of how happiness is connected to land use .
Future works should consider to include socio economic factors , such as family income by census tract , to the study of sentiments analysis and human mobility patterns . Question on people ’s sociability within and between tracts , commuting preferences , as well as internet accessibility , should be considered for studying sentiments and mobility patterns in cities . Finally , for research purposes we suggest the application of the ideas of this paper to other cities and countries . We hope the findings described in this paper help researcher and policy maker in designing smarter , happier , more equitable cities .
7 . ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This paper is partially supported by the National Counsel of Technological and Scientific Development — CNPq , Brazil . This support is gratefully acknowledged .
References [ 1 ] Happiness , geography and the environment . Ecological
Economics , 65(2):386–396 , Apr . 2008 .
[ 2 ] A . Abbasi , A . Hassan , and M . Dhar . Benchmarking twitter sentiment analysis tools . In Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC’14 ) , 2014 .
[ 3 ] A . Alshamsi , E . Awad , M . Almehrezi , V . Babushkin , P J Chang , Z . Shoroye , A P Toth , and I . Rahwan . Misery loves company : happiness and communication in the city . EPJ Data Science , 4(1):7 , 2015 .
[ 4 ] R . Alvarez , D . Garcia , Y . Moreno , and F . Schweitzer . Sentiment cascades in the 15m movement . EPJ Data Science , 4(1):1–13 , 2015 .
[ 5 ] Z . Cheng , J . Caverlee , K . Lee , and D . Sui . Exploring millions of footprints in location sharing services . In International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media , 2011 .
[ 6 ] H . Cramer , M . Rost , and L . E . Holmquist . Performing a check in : Emerging practices , norms and ’conflicts’ in location sharing using foursquare . In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Human Computer Interaction with Mobile Devices and Services , 2011 .
[ 7 ] S . Duffy . A community creating their own rules on foursquare . In Proceedings of the First NSS Workshop on Mobile and Online Social Networks , 2011 .
[ 8 ] N . Eagle , M . Macy , and R . Claxton . Network diversity and economic development . Science , 328(5981):1029– 1031 , 2010 .
[ 9 ] N . Eagle and A . Pentland . Reality mining : Sensing complex social systems . Personal Ubiquitous Computing , 10(4):255–268 , Mar . 2006 .
[ 10 ] R . A . Easterlin . Does economic growth improve the human lot ? some empirical evidence . Nations and households in economic growth , 89:89–125 , 1974 .
[ 11 ] J . R . Fontaine , K . R . Scherer , E . B . Roesch , and P . C . Ellsworth . The world of emotions is not twodimensional . Psychological science , 18(12):1050–1057 , 2007 .
[ 12 ] A . Garas , D . Garcia , M . Skowron , and F . Schweitzer . Emotional persistence in online chatting communities . Scientific Reports , 2 , 2012 .
[ 13 ] D . Garcia , A . Garas , and F . Schweitzer . Positive words carry less information than negative words . EPJ Data Science , 1(1):3 , 2012 .
[ 14 ] D . Garcia , F . Mendez , U . Serd¨ult , and F . Schweitzer . Political polarization and popularity in online participatory media : an integrated approach . In Proceedings of the first edition workshop on Politics , elections and data , 2012 .
[ 15 ] D . Garcia and F . Schweitzer . Emotions in product reviews–empirics and models . In Privacy , Security , Risk and Trust ( PASSAT ) and 2011 IEEE Third Inernational Conference on Social Computing ( SocialCom ) , 2011 IEEE Third International Conference on , 2011 .
[ 16 ] S . A . Golder and M . W . Macy . Diurnal and seasonal mood vary with work , sleep , and daylength across diverse cultures . Science , 333(6051):1878–1881 , Sept . 2011 .
[ 17 ] P . Gon¸calves , M . Ara´ujo , F . Benevenuto , and M . Cha . Comparing and combining sentiment analysis methods . In Proceedings of the first ACM conference on Online social networks , 2013 .
[ 18 ] M . C . Gonz´alez , C . A . Hidalgo , and A L Barab´asi . Understanding individual human mobility patterns . Nature , 453(7196):779–782 , June 2008 .
[ 19 ] S . Gonz´alez Bail´on , R . E . Banchs , and A . Kaltenbrunner . Emotions , public opinion , and us presidential approval rates : A 5 year analysis of online political discussions . Human Communication Research , 38(2):121–143 , 2012 .
[ 20 ] F . Kivran Swaine and M . Naaman . Network properties and social sharing of emotions in social awareness streams . In Proceedings of the ACM 2011 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work , 2011 .
[ 21 ] A . Kramer . An unobtrusive behavioral model of “ gross national happiness ” . In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , 2010 .
[ 22 ] O . Kucuktunc , B . B . Cambazoglu , I . Weber , and H . Ferhatosmanoglu . A large scale sentiment analysis for yahoo! answers . In Proceedings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining , 2012 .
[ 36 ] D . Watson , L . A . Clark , and A . Tellegen . Development and validation of brief measures of positive and negative affect : the panas scales . Journal of personality and social psychology , 54(6):1063 , 1988 .
[ 23 ] L . Mitchell , M . R . Frank , K . D . Harris , P . S . Dodds , and C . M . Danforth . The geography of happiness : Connecting twitter sentiment and expression , demographics , and objective characteristics of place . PLoS ONE , 8(5):e64417 , 05 2013 .
[ 24 ] A . Noulas , S . Scellato , C . Mascolo , and M . Pontil . An empirical study of geographic user activity patterns in foursquare . In Proceedings of the 5th Int’l AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media , 2011 .
[ 25 ] C . E . Osgood , G . J . Suci , and P . H . Tannenbaum . The measurement of meaning . University of Illinois Press , 1964 .
[ 26 ] B . Pang and L . Lee . Opinion mining and sentiment analysis . Foundations and trends in information retrieval , 2(1 2):1–135 , 2008 .
[ 27 ] D . Quercia , J . Ellis , L . Capra , and J . Crowcroft . Tracking “ gross community happiness ” from tweets . In Proceedings of the CSCW’12 Conference , 2012 .
[ 28 ] D . Quercia and D . Saez Trumper . Mining urban deprivation from foursquare : Implicit crowdsourcing of city land use . Pervasive Computing , IEEE , 13(2):30– 36 , Apr 2014 .
[ 29 ] A . Rajadesingan , R . Zafarani , and H . Liu . Sarcasm detection on twitter : A behavioral modeling approach . In Proceedings of the Eighth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , 2015 .
[ 30 ] J . A . Russell and A . Mehrabian . Evidence for a threefactor theory of emotions . Journal of research in Personality , 11(3):273–294 , 1977 .
[ 31 ] M . Thelwall , K . Buckley , and G . Paltoglou . Sentiment strength detection for the social web . Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 63(1):163–173 , 2012 .
[ 32 ] M . Thelwall , K . Buckley , G . Paltoglou , M . Skowron , D . Garcia , S . Gobron , J . Ahn , A . Kappas , D . K¨uster , and J . A . Holyst . Damping sentiment analysis in online communication : discussions , monologs and dialogs . In Computational linguistics and intelligent text processing , pages 1–12 . Springer , 2013 .
[ 33 ] Z . Tufekci . Big questions for social media big data : Representativeness , validity and other methodological pitfalls . 2014 .
[ 34 ] A . Venerandi , G . Quattrone , D . Quercia , L . Capra , and D . Saez Trumper . Measuring urban deprivation from user generated content . In Proceedings of the CSCW’15 Conference , 2015 .
[ 35 ] A . B . Warriner , V . Kuperman , and M . Brysbaert . Norms of valence , arousal , and dominance for 13,915 english lemmas . Behavior research methods , 45(4):1191– 1207 , 2013 .
