5 1 0 2 t c O 1 2
] T G . s c [
2 v 8 9 1 4 0
.
6 0 5 1 : v i X r a
Bayesian Budget Feasibility with Posted Pricing
Eric Balkanski
Harvard University
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
Jason D . Hartline
Northwestern University
EECS Department ericbalkanski@gharvardedu hartline@eecsnorthwesternedu
October 22 , 2015
Abstract
We consider the problem of budget feasible mechanism design proposed by Singer ( 2010 ) , but in a Bayesian setting . A principal has a public value for hiring a subset of the agents and a budget , while the agents have private costs for being hired . We consider both additive and submodular value functions of the principal . We show that there are simple , practical , ex post budget balanced posted pricing mechanisms that approximate the value obtained by the Bayesian optimal mechanism that is budget balanced only in expectation . A main motivating application for this work is crowdsourcing , eg , on Mechanical Turk , where workers are drawn from a large population and posted pricing is standard . Our analysis methods relate to contention resolution schemes in submodular optimization of Vondr´ak et al . ( 2011 ) and the correlation gap analysis of Yan ( 2011 ) .
1 Introduction
Consider the problem of hiring workers to complete complex tasks on crowdsourcing platforms such as Mechanical Turk . A principal must select a set of participants , henceforth agents , whose contributions will be aggregated to complete the task . The principal ’s value for the task is a function of the set of participants selected and the principal ’s budget limits the total payments to participants . We assume that the principal ’s value is submodular , ie , it exhibits diminishing returns to recruiting additional participants . The participants have a private cost for participating and will choose to participate strategically to optimize their payments received relative to this cost . The principal seeks a budget feasible mechanism for selecting participants so as to maximize the value of the completed task .
The literature on budget feasible mechanism design initiated by Singer ( 2010 ) studies this problem ; however , it primarily considers sealed bid mechanisms which do not tend to be seen on crowdsourcing platforms like Mechanical Turk . Instead , these platforms use posted pricing mechanisms . We follow a traditional economics approach to this problem where agents’ costs are drawn from a common prior distribution and a mechanism is sought to optimize the principal ’s value function in expectation . Note that this approach is especially relevant to the principal ’s problem as the workers on crowdsourcing platforms are drawn from a large population of available workers . We show that posted pricing mechanisms give a good approximation to the optimal sealed bid mechanism . Additionally , we give efficient algorithms for calculating the appropriate prices . In comparison to other work in optimization of prices in crowdsourcing , our work focuses on the use of prices to control
1 participation and not the level of effort of participants . Controlling the level of effort of participants was studied in online behavioral experiments by Ho et al . ( 2015 ) , theoretically for crowdsourcing contests by Chawla et al . ( 2012 ) , and for user generated content by Immorlica et al . ( 2015 ) .
Overview of Approach . Our approach follows similarly to that of Alaei ( 2014 ) and Yan ( 2011 ) . The starting point for our analysis is an upper bound on the performance of the optimal sealed bid mechanism that relaxes the ex post budget constraint on the mechanism to hold ex ante , ie , in expectation over the private costs of the agents . Via this ex ante relaxation and the Myerson ( 1981 ) theory of virtual values , we construct a posted price mechanism that is budget feasible in expectation and a 1 − 1/e approximation to the optimal ex ante mechanism when the principal ’s value function exhibits decreasing returns , ie , is submodular . For the special case where the principal ’s value function is additive , this posted pricing is optimal ( for the ex ante relaxation ) .
We then consider posting the prices from the solution to the ex ante relaxation until the budget runs out . The resulting mechanism is ex post budget feasible , but suffers a loss in performance because the budget may run out early . The main technical contribution of this work is to show that the performance of such a price posting mechanism compares favorably to the optimal sealed bid mechanism . Previous work in mechanism design gives techniques which are now well understood to satisfy ex post allocation constraints . Ex post payment constraints require different techniques and our analyses follow two basic approaches that combine optimization and mechanism design concepts . To analyze the performance of the posted pricing under any arrival order of the agents , we solve the ex ante relaxation with a slightly smaller budget and then , using results from the Vondr´ak et al . ( 2011 ) analysis of contention resolution schemes , show that it is unlikely for the original ex post budget constraint to bind . Alternatively , we obtain better bounds for additive value functions and when the order of agent arrivals can be specified by the mechanism via the correlation gap approach of Yan ( 2011 ) . As a corollary , we obtain new correlation gap results for integral and fractional knapsack set functions . Moreover , when the environment is symmetric ( both in distribution of agent costs and the principal ’s value function ) , the submodular case can be reduced to the additive case .
The prices identified above can be computed or approximately computed in polynomial time . In particular , for submodular value functions , we reduce the problem of finding the prices to the well known greedy algorithm for submodular optimization . The identified prices approximate the optimal prices with relative loss in the value function that is within a factor of 1 − 1/e . For additive value functions , the optimization problem simplifies to a monopoly pricing problem of classic microeconomics . Similarly to the Myerson and Satterthwaite ( 1983 ) treatment of welfare maximization subject to budget balance in a buyer–seller exchange , optimization in this context is based on Lagrangian virtual surplus . These optimal prices can be approximated arbitrarily precisely by solving this problem on a discretized instance .
Related work . The prior literature on budget feasibility primarily considers a worst case design and analysis framework that compares the performance of the designed mechanism to the first best outcome , ie , the one that could be obtained if the agents’ costs were public . See Singer ( 2010 ) , Bei et al . ( 2012 ) , Badanidiyuru et al . ( 2012 ) , and Anari et al . ( 2014 ) . Our analysis compares the designed mechanism , in expectation for the known prior distribution , to the second best outcome , ie , the one obtained by the Bayesian optimal mechanism .
The following results are for prior free mechanisms in comparison to the first best outcome .
2
Value Function
Mechanism
Ex Post Constraint
Family
Approach
Additive
Symmetric
Submodular
Submodular
Sequential
Correlation
Posted Pricing
Gap
Oblivious
Correlation
Posted Pricing
Gap
Oblivious
General Result
( 1 − 1√
2πk
)(1 − 1 k )
( 1 − 1√
2πk
)(1 − 1 k )
Large
Markets
1
1
( computational )
Posted Pricing
Submodular
Oblivious
( non computational )
Posted Pricing
Contention
Resolution
Contention
Resolution
( 1 − 1 e )2(1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 )
( 1 − 1 e )2 ≈ 0.40
( 1 − 1 e )(1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 )
1 − 1 e ≈ 0.63
Figure 1 : Our results are approximations to the Bayesian optimal mechanism . Bounds are parameterized by the market size k , a lower bound on the number of agents that can be simultaneously selected with the given budget ( see Definition 4 ) . In large markets , k grows large . The given results with the contention resolution approach require k ≥ 4 and ∈ ( 2/k , 1/2 ) , a result for k < 4 is mentioned in Section 4 For the symmetric submodular results , we also assume symmetric distributions on costs . Our computational results also have an additional o(1 ) loss due to discretization .
Singer ( 2010 ) obtained a randomized truthful budget feasible mechanism with a constant factor approximation for submodular value functions , Chen et al . ( 2011 ) then improved the analysis of this mechanism to a 0.13 approximation . In the Bayesian setting , Bei et al . ( 2012 ) obtained a constant approximation for subadditive functions . More recently , Anari et al . ( 2014 ) obtained better bounds by considering large markets , which we also consider in this paper . Finally , Badanidiyuru et al . ( 2012 ) also considered posted pricing mechanisms but when the agents arrive online . They obtained a constant approximation for the class of symmetric submodular functions . They also obtained a O(log n ) mechanism for the case of submodular functions . In comparison to this last paper , we give much better bounds when the prior distribution on costs is known .
The starting point for our analysis is the solution to the relaxed problem of budget balance in expectation , ie , ex ante . In the additive case , this problem was recently studied by Ensthaler and Giebe ( 2014 ) . They show that posted pricing mechanisms solve the relaxed problem and remark that the same performance can be obtained with ex post budget balance , but at the expense of relaxing ex post individual rationality ( for the bidders ) and not with a posted pricing . This latter observation follows , for example , by applying a general construction of Es¨o and Futo ( 1999 ) . Our analysis of the relaxed problem gives a much simpler proof of their main theorem .
Budget feasibility has also been studied in the context of crowdsourcing . Among that line of work , the model considered in Anari et al . ( 2014 ) is the closest to ours , and will be compared in detail below . Singla and Krause ( 2013 ) and Singer and Mittal ( 2013 ) consider the special case of our model where the principal ’s value function is the number of tasks performed . The former studies posted pricing for agents with iid costs from an unknown distribution , while the latter studies sealed bid mechanisms without a prior .
Our results . Our results are summarized in Figure 1 . We consider two main classes of valuation functions , additive and submodular . We use two different methods to satisfy the ex post payment constraint , one is based on contention resolution schemes and the other on correlation
3 gap . Contention resolution schemes give an oblivious posted price mechanism , ie , one that obtains its proven bound under any arrival order of the agents . The correlation gap approach , for the case where the principal has an additive value function , gives a sequential posted price mechanism . Such a mechanism is specified by an ordering on agents and take it or leave it prices to offer each agent . As a special case , we consider symmetric environments where both the value function and the distribution is symmetric .
Our results can most directly be compared to those of Anari et al . ( 2014 ) , but with the following caveats . Their results are for sealed bid mechanisms while ours are for posted pricings ; their mechanism is prior free while ours is parameterized by the prior distribution on agent costs ; their results compare performance to the first best outcome , ie , without incentive constraints , while ours compare to the second best outcome , ie , that of the Bayesian optimal mechanism ( with incentive constraints ) . They obtain approximation ratios of 1 − 1/e , 1/3 and 1/2 in large markets respectively for additive , submodular ( computational ) , and submodular ( non computational ) value functions . Moreover , they show that no truthful mechanism can achieve an approximation ratio better than 1 − 1/e with respect to the first best outcome for additive value functions .
Discussion about posted pricing mechanisms and benchmarks . Following a line of literature in mechanism design that was initiated by Chawla et al . ( 2010 ) , the goal of this work is to show that there exists simple posted pricing mechanisms that approximate the optimal sealed bid mechanism . Two quantities of interest therefore need to be separated . The first is the cost of incentive compatibility in budget feasible settings , ie , the gap between the first best and secondbest benchmarks . The second is the cost of simplicity , ie , the loss of a posted pricing mechanism compared to the Bayesian optimal mechanism . Prior work with comparisons to a first best benchmark has approximations that are a combination of both of these quantities . Our comparison to the second best outcome isolates the loss from a simple decentralized pricing over the optimal centralized mechanism as the quantity of interest .
Paper Organization . We start with preliminaries in Section 2 to introduce the model and different concepts used in this paper . We then describe posted price mechanisms for the ex ante relaxation , where the budget holds in expectation , in Section 3 . We explain how to go from an ex ante posted price mechanism to an ex post posted price mechanism using two different methods , one inspired by contention resolution schemes in Section 4 and another based on a correlation gap analysis in Section 5 . We tackle the computation issues of finding a good ex ante mechanism in Section 6 . In Section 7 , we study symmetric environments . Up to Section 7 , cost distributions are assumed to be regular and Section 8 considers the case where some distributions might be irregular . Throughout the paper , we assume that the principal ’s valuation function is monotone and submodular .
2 Preliminaries There are n agents N = {1 , . . . , n} . Agent i has a private cost ci for providing a service that is drawn from a distribution Fi ( denoting the cumulative distribution function ) with density fi . Indicator variable xi denotes whether or not i provides service and pi denotes the payment i receives . Agent i aims to optimize her utility given by pi − cixi . The cost profile is denoted c = ( c1 , . . . , cn ) ; the
4 joint distribution on costs is the product distribution F = F1 × ··· × Fn ; the payment profile is denoted p = ( p1 , . . . , pn ) ; and the allocation profile is denoted x = ( x1 , . . . , xn ) . The principal has a value function v : {0 , 1}n → R+ . For allocation profile x ∈ {0 , 1}n or set of agents S = {i : xi = 1} who provide service , the value to the principal is v(x ) = v(S ) . The principal has a budget B and requires the payments to the agents not to exceed the budget , ie , i pi ≤ B . The following mathematical program captures the principal ’s objective .
( 1 )
Ec[v(x(c) ) ] max x,p st i pi(c ) ≤ B ∀c , x(· ) and p(· ) are incentive compatible .
We consider only mechanisms that are incentive compatible . A mechanism is incentive compatible ( IC ) , if truthful reporting of the agents is a dominant strategy equilibrium.1 We will consider the budget constraint both ex ante , ie , in expectation over realizations of agents’ costs and random choices of the mechanism , and ex post , ie , the payments to the agents never exceed the budget . The main goal of this paper is to approximate the optimal ex ante budget feasible mechanism with an ex post budget feasible posted pricing mechanism . Posted pricing mechanisms are trivially incentive compatible .
Definition 1 . The posted pricing ( ˆc , σ ) , for prices ˆc and ordering on agents σ , is :
1 . The remaining budget is initially B .
2 . The agents arrive in order σ .
3 . If agent i arrives with cost ci below her offered price ˆci which is below the remaining budget , then select this agent for service , pay her ˆci , and deduct ˆci from the remaining budget . Otherwise , discard this agent .
For ( implicit ) distribution on costs F , we can equivalently specify a posted pricing ( ˆc , σ ) as ( ˆq , σ ) where ˆqi = Fi(ˆci ) is the marginal probability that agent i with cost ci ∼ Fi would accept the price ˆci.2
Note that the prices ˆc are non adaptive , ie , fixed before the agents arrive . We consider posted pricing mechanisms under two different models for agent arrival . In the sequential posted pricing model , the ordering σ can be fixed in advance by the mechanism and , without computational considerations , our analysis is for the best case ordering of the prices . In the oblivious posted pricing model , the ordering σ is unconstrained and our analysis is worst case with respect to this ordering . An oblivious posted pricing is denoted ˆc . We compare our mechanisms to an ex ante i ˆci ˆqi ≤ B . The value of an ex ante posted pricing is ES∼ˆq[v(S ) ] where S ∼ ˆq adds each agent i to S independently with probability ˆqi . posted pricing ˆc where the budget constraint holds in expectation , ie ,
1The restriction to dominant strategy mechanisms over Bayesian incentive compatible mechanisms is without loss for the budget feasibility objective .
2It is common in Bayesian mechanism design to consider the agents’ private costs in quantile space where i ’s quantile qi = Fi(ci ) is the measure of cost lower than ci according to Fi . Agent quantiles are always uniformly distributed on [ 0 , 1 ] . From this perspective , ˆqi is agent i ’s price in quantile space .
5
The paper focuses on value functions that are monotone and submodular ( Definition 2 ) . An important special case , which we will treat separately , is that of additive value functions where each agent has a value vi and the value function is v(S ) = i∈S vi .
Definition 2 . A set function v : {0 , 1}n → R+ is monotone submodular if
• ( monotonicity ) v(T ) ≤ v(S ) for all T ⊂ S , and • ( submodularity ) for all T ⊂ S the marginal contribution of i ∈ S to T is at least its marginal contribution to S . In other words , v(T ∪ {i} ) − v(T ) ≥ v(S ∪ {i} ) − v(S ) .
Our analysis is based on the relationship between a set function and two standard extensions of a set functions from the domain {0 , 1}n to the domain [ 0 , 1]n . For submodular set functions , these extensions were studied by Calinescu et al . ( 2007 ) and Agrawal et al . ( 2010 ) . Definition 3 . Given a set function v : {0 , 1}n → R+ ,
• its concave closure V +(· ) ( aka , correlated value ) is the smallest concave function that upper bounds the set function . Alternatively , V +(ˆq ) = maxD ES∼D[v(S ) ] with the maximization taken over all distributions D with marginal probabilities ˆq = ( ˆq1 , . . . , ˆqn ) ; and
• its multilinear extension V ( · ) ( aka , independent value ) is the expected value of the set function when each element i is drawn independently with marginal probability ˆqi . In other words , V ( ˆq ) = ES∼ˆq[v(S) ] .
For any set function , the concave closure is clearly an upper bound on the multilinear extension . For submodular functions the inequality approximately holds in the opposite direction as well . By the interpretation of the multilinear extension as the expected value of the set function for independent distribution and the concave closure as the expected value of the set function for correlated distributions , their worst case ratio over marginal probabilities ˆq is known as the correlation gap ( Agrawal et al . , 2010 ) .
Theorem 1 ( Calinescu et al . , 2007 , Agrawal et al . , 2010 ) . For monotone submodular set function v(· ) , the correlation gap is min
ˆq
V ( ˆq ) V +(ˆq )
≤ 1 − 1/e .
Theorem 2 ( Yan , 2011 ) . For a k highest value elements set function v(· ) , which is additive with value vi for element i up to a capacity of at most k elements , the correlation gap is min
ˆq
V ( ˆq ) V +(ˆq )
√ ≤ 1 − 1/
2πk .
Our analysis is parameterized by a measure of the size of the market . This notion of market size is standard in the literature , eg , see Bei et al . ( 2012 ) and Anari et al . ( 2014 ) . A large market analysis considers the market size in the limit . Although large markets are described as an assumption by Anari et al . ( 2014 ) , the market size k is a parameter in our analysis and we obtain results for any market size .
6
Definition 4 . A market is k large for prices ˆc and budget B if B/ˆci ≥ k for all agents i .
Note that the market size depends on prices and therefore on the mechanism , which is inherent to our analysis . These prices can trivially be upper bounded by the maximum cost that can be drawn from the distributions .
3 The Ex Ante Budget Feasible and Concave Closure Relaxations
In this section we relax the objective function and the budget constraint to make the problem more amenable to optimization . We first relax the budget constraint so that it only holds in expectation , making it an ex ante feasibility constraint . We then upper bound the value function by its concave closure . With an ex ante feasibility constraint , the objective is to optimize the following ex ante program over allocation rule x(· ) and payment rule p(· ) with c ∼ F . max x,p st
Ec[v(x(c) ) ]
Ec[pi(c ) ] ≤ B , x(· ) and p(· ) are IC . i
( 2 )
When payments are part of the principal ’s objective or constraints , the Bayesian mechanism design problem will typically rely on the Myerson ( 1981 ) theory of virtual values or , in our case where the agents are sellers , virtual costs . The virtual cost of agent i with cost ci drawn from distribution Fi is φi(ci ) = ci + Fi(ci ) fi(ci ) . The virtual surplus of an agent i with virtual cost φi(ci ) and allocation indicator xi is φi(ci ) xi .
Lemma 3 ( Myerson and Satterthwaite , 1983 ) . In any incentive compatible mechanism , any agent i ’s expected payment is equal to her expected virtual surplus , ie , for c ∼ F ,
Ec[pi(c ) ] = Ec[φi(c ) xi(c ) ] .
The definition of virtual costs and Lemma 3 allows the ex ante program ( 2 ) to be rewritten in terms of the allocation rule only . To do so , we invoke the following characterization of incentive compatible mechanisms of Myerson ( 1981 ) .
Lemma 4 ( Myerson , 1981 ) . There exists an incentive compatible mechanism with allocation rule x(· ) if and only if x(· ) is monotone in the cost of any agent .
We now rewrite the optimization program ( 2 ) by substituting in virtual costs for payments to obtain the following virtual surplus program ,
Ec[v(x(c) ) ] max x st i
Ec[φi(c ) xi(c ) ] ≤ B , x(· ) is monotone in the cost of any agent .
( 3 )
For the general case of submodular value functions , the expected value of the set function v(· ) is upper bounded by its concave closure ( Definition 3 ) as follows . The allocation rule x(· )
7 that optimizes this virtual surplus program induces , for c ∼ F , a distribution over sets of winning agents . Denote this distribution by D and denote by ˆq the profile of marginal probabilities , ie , with ˆqi = PrS∼D[i ∈ S ] . By the definition of the concave closure of the set function v(· ) , Ec[v(x(c) ) ] = ES∼D[v(S ) ] ≤ V +(ˆq ) .
The payment to an agent is lower bounded by the payment from price posting . As above , the optimal mechanism selects agent i with probability ˆqi . When virtual costs are monotonically increasing , ie , in the case of regular distributions , the expected payment to an agent i selected with probability ˆqi is minimized if agent i is served if and only if ci ≤ F −1 ( ˆqi ) by Lemma 3 since these costs minimize φi(c).3 Thus , the mechanism that minimizes expected payments and serves each agent i with probability ˆqi is the mechanism that posts price ˆci = F −1 Lemma 5 . For any agent with cost drawn from regular distribution Fi and any incentive compatible mechanism that selects agent i with probability ˆqi , the expected payment of agent i is at least ˆqiˆci where ˆci = F −1
( ˆqi ) to each agent i .
( ˆqi ) . i i i
Combining the relaxation of the value function and the relaxation of the payments we obtain the following concave closure program , max q st
V +(q ) qiF −1 i
( qi ) ≤ B . i
( 4 )
Lemma 6 . Let ˆq+ be the optimal solution to the concave closure program ( 4 ) , then V +(ˆq+ ) upper bounds the performance of the optimal ex ante mechanism in the case of regular cost distributions .
Posted price mechanisms are trivially incentive compatible . Since the distributions of agents’ costs are independent , the set of agents who will accept their offer with a posted price mechanism is a set which will contain each agent with some probability qi independently . Therefore the performance of a posted price mechanism where agents accept their offer with probabilities q is the multilinear extension V ( q ) . This motivates us to rewrite the concave closure program ( 4 ) as the following multilinear extension program ,
( 5 )
V ( q ) max q st qiF −1 i
( qi ) ≤ B . i
Maximizing the multilinear extension program gives us an ex ante posted price mechanism that is approximately optimal . i
Theorem 7 . In the case of monotone submodular value functions and regular cost distributions , the ex ante mechanism that posts price ˆci = F −1 ( ˆqi ) to each agent i is an 1 − 1/e approximation to the optimal ex ante mechanism , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) . Proof . Let ˆq+ be the optimal solution to the concave closure program ( 4 ) . By Theorem 1 , V ( ˆq+ ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e)V +(ˆq+ ) . By the optimality of ˆq , V ( ˆq ) ≥ V ( ˆq+ ) . Since the performance of posting price F −1 ( ˆqi ) to each agent i is V ( ˆq ) and since V +(ˆq+ ) upper bounds the performance of the optimal ex ante mechanism by Lemma 6 , posting price F −1 ( ˆqi ) to each agent is an 1 − 1/e approximation to the optimal ex ante mechanism . i i
3The case of irregular distributions is considered in Section 8 .
8
Note that in the additive case where each agent has value vi , V ( q ) = V +(q ) = i viqi and we get the following corollary .
Corollary 8 . In the case of additive value functions and regular cost distributions , the ex ante mechanism that posts price ˆci = F −1 ( ˆqi ) to each agent i is an optimal mechanism , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) . i
We discuss the computational issues of finding a good solution q to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) in Section 6 . For the case of submodular functions , we reduce the problem to submodular function maximization ( with a cardinality constraint ) for which the greedy algorithm gives an 1 − 1/e approximation . In the additive case , we will show that the optimal ex ante budget feasible mechanism can be found by taking the Lagrangian relaxation of the virtual surplus program ( 3 ) .
4 Submodular Value and Oblivious Posted Pricing
In the previous section , we obtained an ex ante mechanism by optimizing the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) . In this section we analyze the performance of oblivious posted pricing ( with an ex post budget constraint ) .
The approach of this section is the following : lower the budget by some small amount and optimize the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) so that the lowered budget is satisfied ex ante . With the budget sufficiently lowered , with high probability the cost ( sum of prices ) of the set of agents who would accept their offer is under the original budget ( regardless of their arrival order and ex post ) .
This approach is a special case of that taken by the contention resolution schemes of Vondr´ak et al . ( 2011 ) and we first review some known bounds . The first comes from the submodularity of the value function ; the second comes from the Chernoff bound . Theorem 9 ( Bansal et al . , 2010 ) . Given a non negative monotone submodular function v(· ) , a random set R which contains each agent i independently with probability ˆqi , and a ( possibly randomized ) procedure π that maps ( possibly infeasible ) sets to feasible sets such that ,
• ( marginal property ) for all i , PrR∼ˆq;π[i ∈ π(R ) | i ∈ R ] ≥ γ , and • ( monotonicity property ) for all T ⊆ S and i ∈ T , Prπ[i ∈ π(T ) ] ≥ Prπ[i ∈ π(S) ] , then ER∼ˆq;π[v(π(R) ) ] ≥ γ · ER∼ˆq[v(R) ] . Theorem 10 ( Vondr´ak et al . , 2011 4 ) . Given ∈ ( 0 , 1/2 ) , budget B , independent variables pi that are the payments to each agent such that ,
• ( scaled ex ante budget constraint ) i E[pi ] ≤ ( 1 − ) B , • ( k large market ) pi is bounded by [ 0 , B/k ] for all i , and • k > 2/ , of any agent , ie , Pr[ then the probability that the sum of costs of selected agents does not exceed the budget less the cost i pi ≤ ( 1 − 1/k)B ] , is at least 1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 .
4The formulation of this theorem is slightly different than in Vondr´ak et al . ( 2011 ) but follows easily from their analysis .
9
We now connect these two results by relating the probability that the sum of costs does not exceed ( 1 − 1/k)B of Theorem 10 to γ of Theorem 9 and then show that posted pricings satisfy the conditions of Theorem 9 .
. i∈R ˆci ≤ ( 1 − 1/k)Bfi , the probability that the sum of the prices of agents who would
Lemma 11 . For sequential posted pricing ( ˆc , σ ) that satisfy the scaled ex ante budget constraint and k large market conditions , the probability that an agent is offered her price is lower bounded by PrR∼ˆq accept their offered price is at most ( 1 − 1/k)B . Proof . If the total cost of all agents who would accept their price is at most ( 1 − 1/k)B then this budget remains at the time an agent i is considered in the sequence σ . By the definition of k ≥ B/ˆci it is feasible to serve this agent and so she is offered her price ˆci by the sequential posted pricing mechanism .
Lemma 12 . For sequential posted pricing ( ˆq , σ ) , if each agent is offered her price with probability at least γ , then the expected value of the mechanism is at least γV ( ˆq ) .
Proof . It suffices to show , for sequential posted pricing ( ˆq , σ ) with an ex post budget constraint B , that the marginal and monotonicity properties of Theorem 9 hold . In our case , R ∼ ˆq is the random set of agents who would accept their offer if the budget never runs out . Given a set of agents R who accept their offer , define π(R ) to be the set of agents who accept their offer and who arrive before the budget runs out . In our case , π is deterministic given the ordering σ . Note that PrR∼ˆq;π[i ∈ π(R ) | i ∈ R ] is equal to the probability that an agent gets offered her price , meaning that she arrives before the budget runs out . Thus , by the assumption of the lemma the marginal property holds . For the monotonicity property , consider two sets T ⊆ S . When an agent i arrives in the posted price mechanism , the mechanism has spent less if the set of agents who accept their offer is T than if this set is S . Therefore i ∈ π(S ) implies that i ∈ π(T ) and the monotonicity property holds .
By combining the previous results , we obtain the main theorem for this section .
Theorem 13 . For ∈ ( 0 , 1/2 ) , if the oblivious posted pricing ˆc corresponding to the optimal solution ˆq to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) with budget ( 1− )B ( ie , with ˆci = F −1 ( ˆqi ) for each agent i ) satisfies 2/ ≤ k ≤ B/ maxi ˆci , then this posted pricing mechanism is a ( 1 − 1/e)(1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 ) approximation to the optimal mechanism for submodular value functions and ( 1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 ) for additive value functions in the case of regular cost distributions . Proof . The proof starts with the ex ante mechanism from the previous section and then applies results from this section to modify it into an ex post mechanism . Let ˆq be the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) with budget ( 1 − )B , ( 1− )B be the optimal solution to the concave closure program ( 4 ) with budget ( 1 − )B , and ˆq+ ˆq+ be the optimal solution to the concave closure program ( 4 ) with budget B .
B i
By the optimality of ˆq and Theorem 1 , V ( ˆq ) ≥ V ( ˆq+
( 1− )B ) ≥ ( 1 − 1 e )V +(ˆq+
Note that the solution ( 1 − )ˆq+ optimality of ˆq+
( 1− )B ) . B has cost at most ( 1 − )B since F −1 ( 1− )B and by the concavity of the concave closure V +(· ) , B ) ≥ ( 1 − )V +(ˆq+ B ) .
( 1− )B ) ≥ V +((1 − )ˆq+
V +(ˆq+ i
( · ) is increasing . So by the
10
B ) is an upper bound on the performance of the optimal ex ante mechanism by Lemma 6 , ( ˆqi ) is a ( 1 − 1/e)(1 − )
. i∈R ˆci ≤ ( 1 − 1/k)Bfi by Lemma 11 , regardless of the ordering σ of agents . By
Since V +(ˆq+ the ex ante posted pricing mechanism defined for each agent by ˆci = F −1 approximation to the optimal mechanism . We now consider the posted pricing mechanism defined by ˆc that is no longer ex ante . Since the budget has been lowered by a factor 1 − , each agent is offered her price with probability at least PrR∼ˆq Theorem 10 , this probability is at least 1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 . Therefore , by Lemma 12 , the expected value of this mechanism is at least ( 1 − e− 2(1− )k/12)V ( ˆq ) and this mechanism is a ( 1 − )(1 − 1/e)(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 ) approximation to the optimal mechanism in the case of submodular value functions . In the case of additive functions , there is no loss from the multilinear extension to the concave closure , so the mechanism is a ( 1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 ) approximation . i
Note that as the size of the market k grows to infinity , this approximation ratio approaches 1 − 1/e . Also note that this mechanism requires the market to be at least 4 large . Using another result from Vondr´ak et al . ( 2011 ) and a similar analysis to the one from this section , a ( 1 − 1/e)/8 posted pricing mechanism can easily be obtained for any market size . This posted pricing attains its performance guarantee when agents with cost at least B/4 arrive before all others , but otherwise the order is oblivious .
5 Additive Value and Sequential Posted Pricing orders the agents , and when the value function is additive , ie , v(S ) =
In this section we give improved bounds for sequential posted pricing , ie , where the mechanism i∈S vi . In particular , we analyze the sequential posted pricing ( ˆc , σ ) with ˆci = F −1 ( ˆqi ) from the solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) with the full budget B and the ordering σ by decreasing bang per buck , ie , vi/ˆci for agent i . i
Our results in this section are based on the analysis of the correlation gap of fractional and integral knapsack set functions ( to be defined subsequently ) . The fractional knapsack set function is a submodular function , so a correlation gap of 1 − 1/e can be directly obtained ( Theorem 1 ) . In this section , we improve this bound to 1 − 1/ 2πk for k large markets , ie , with k = B/ maxi ˆci . From this bound we observe that the correlation gap for fractional knapsack in large market is asymptotically one . We show that the integral knapsack correlation gap is nearly the same . Following the approach of Yan ( 2011 ) , the factor by which sequential posted pricing approximates the ex ante relaxation is equal to the integral knapsack correlation gap .
√
Definition 5 . The fractional knapsack set function corresponding to additive set function v(S ) = i∈S vi , sizes ˆc , and capacity B is denoted vB(S ) and equals the maximum value solution to the corresponding fractional knapsack problem on elements S.5 The integral knapsack set function can be defined analogously to the fractional one , but it cannot add elements fractionally . the case where the budget constraint is met ex ante , ie , ES∼ˆq[vB(S ) ] /ES∼D[v(S ) ] when
Most of this section analyzes the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) ( see Definition 3 for the definition of independent and correlated values ) in i ˆci ˆqi ≤ B . We then show that this ratio is equal to the approximation ratio of the sequential posted pricing
5This value is given by sorting the elements of S by vi/ˆci and admitting them greedily until the first element that does not fit with the remaining capacity , that element is admitted fractionally ( providing a fraction of its value ) .
11 mechanism . Finally , we use this ratio to bound the integral , and fractional , knapsack correlation gap .
The main idea to derive a bound on this ratio is to show that it is minimized when all agents have equal cost B/k , in which case , when the budget constraint is met ex ante , we can then apply the result from Yan ( 2011 ) for the correlation gap of the k highest value elements set function . Lemma 14 . For any additive value function v(· ) and budget B , over marginal probabilities ˆq and i ˆci ˆqi ≤ B , and ( b ) satisfy the k large market condition , ie , ˆci ≤ B/k , the ratio of the independent value of the fractional knapsack and the correlated value of v(· ) is minimized when ˆci = B/k for all i . prices ˆc that ( a ) satisfy the ex ante budget constraint , ie , j∈S ˆcj ) .
Proof . For the first part of the proof , we assume that v = ˆc , ie , that the bang per buck is one for all elements . The last step of the proof is to generalize this special case to any values . Observe that with this assumption , vB(S ) = min(B , ES∼D[v(S ) ] =
Assume that there is some ˆci such that ˆci < B/k . We show that when vi = ˆci , increasing ˆci to i = ˆci ˆqi/ˆc any ˆc i > ˆci and decreasing ˆqi to ˆq i preserves the correlated value while only lowering j = ˆqj for j = i . The correlated value of v(· ) is j = ˆcj and ˆq the independent value . Let ˆc j ˆc j ˆq j so it is preserved . Similarly , the ex ante budget constraint is j ˆcj ˆqj = B(· ) from agent i . In the case that C =
The argument for the independent value decreasing is the following . Let v still satisfied . B(S ) be defined similarly as vB(S ) , but where agents have values and costs equal to ˆc . Condition on the subset of other agents S who accept their prices and consider the marginal contribution to the expected value of vB(· ) and v j∈S ˆcj > B , this contribution is zero for both ˆci and ˆc i ) . By i and concavity of min(B − C,· ) , the former is greater than the latter . the definition of ˆq This inequality holds for all sets S , so removing the conditioning on S , it holds in expectation and the independent value of fractional knapsack is lowered . v1/ˆc1 ≥ ··· ≥ vn/ˆcn . Then the fractional knapsack set function can be rewritten as i . When C < B , these contributions are ˆqi min(B− C , ˆci ) and ˆq i = ˆci ˆqi/ˆc
It remains to extend this result to any v . Fix v and assume without loss of generality that i min(B− C , ˆc vB(S ) = and the additive set function as
( vi/ˆci − vi+1/ˆci+1 ) min(B , i∈N i∈N v(S ) =
( vi/ˆci − vi+1/ˆci+1)(
ˆcj ) j∈S∩{1,,i}
ˆcj ) j∈S∩{1,,i} since these sums telescope . ratios of the independent value of min(B , are minimized for all i . We conclude by observing that min(B ,
So the ratio of independent value of vB(S ) to the correlated value of v(S ) is minimized when the j∈S∩{1,,i} ˆcj j∈S∩{1,,i} ˆcj are the fractional knapsack set function and the additive set function when vi = ˆci over ground set {1 , . . . , i} , and that their ratio is minimized when ˆci = B/k for all agents i . j∈S∩{1,,i} ˆcj ) to the correlated value of j∈S∩{1,,i} ˆcj ) and
Next , we use the result from Yan ( 2011 ) to bound the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) .
12
√
2πk when the market is k large .
Lemma 15 . For any distribution over sets D with marginal probabilities ˆq satisfying the ex ante i ˆci ˆqi ≤ B , the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) is at least 1 − 1/ budget constraint , ie , budget constraint is satisfied , so
Proof . Consider the case where each agent i has cost ˆci = B/k and assume that the ex ante i ˆqi ≤ k . Since any set of size at most k is feasible and since i ˆqi ≤ k , there is a distribution such that the budget constraint is always met ex post . Therefore , the correlated value of v(· ) is equal to the correlated value of fractional knapasck . The ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) is thus equal to the correlation gap of fractional knapsack . Since all agents have cost B/k , the fractional knapsack set function is equal to the k highest value elements set function . By Theorem 2 , the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) is therefore 1 − 1/ 2πk . By Lemma 14 , the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) when the ex ante budget constraint is satisfied is minimized when all agents have cost B/k , so this ratio is at least 1 − 1/
√
√
2πk .
We now prove the main theorem of this section which relates the approximation factor of sequential posted pricing ( with ex post budget feasibility ) to the optimal mechanism with ex ante budget feasibility .
√ Theorem 16 . The sequential posted pricing mechanism ( ˆq , σ ) , where ˆq is the solution to the , is a ( 1− 1/ 2πk)(1− multilinear extension program ( 5 ) and where the order σ is decreasing in vi ˆci 1/k ) approximation to the optimal mechanism in the case of regular cost distributions .
Proof . Denote ˆq the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) . For additive value functions , linearity of expectation implies that the multilinear extension is equal to the concave closure and the optima of the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) and concave closure program ( 4 ) are the same . Their performance upper bounds that of the optimal mechanism that satisfies ex post budget feasibility by Lemma 6 . The objective value of these programs with optimal solution i vi ˆqi , which is equal to the correlated value of the additive set function v(· ) on distributions √ with marginals ˆq . So by Lemma 15 , the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the upper bound of the optimal mechanism is at least 1 − 1/
ˆq is
2πk
The random set of agents who accept their offer in the sequential posted pricing is equal to the set of agents who are admitted by the fractional knapsack set function on an independent random set of agents with marginals ˆq , without including the fractional agent . The loss from this fractional agent is at most a factor 1 − 1/k . This posted pricing mechanism therefore has an approximation ratio of ( 1 − 1/
√ 2πk)(1 − 1/k ) .
As a corollary of Lemma 15 , we get new correlation gap results for the fractional , and integral , knapsack set functions . Theorem 17 . The correlation gaps of fractional knapsack and integral knapsack are at least 1 − √ √ 2πk and ( 1 − 1/ 1/
2πk)(1 − 1/k ) respectively , in a k large market .
Proof . We first show the correlation gap of fractional knapsack , the correlation gap of integralknapsack will then follow easily . We start by showing that the correlation gap is minimized when the budget constraint is satisfied . Then , we upper bound the fractional knapsack correlated value by the correlated value of v(· ) . Finally , we apply Lemma 15 .
13
Figure 2 : Comparison of the approximation ratios obtained for additive value functions by the two different approaches . On the horizontal axis is k , the size of the market .
We claim that the correlation gap of fractional knapsack is minimized when the budget constraint is satisfied . Observe that if the budget constraint is not satisfied , then it is possible to decrease some ˆqi such that the correlated value of fractional knapsack remains the same . Since decreasing some ˆqi only decreases the independent value of fractional knapsack , the ratio of the independent value to the correlated value also decreases . Clearly , the fractional knapsack correlated value is upper bounded by the correlated value of v(· ) . Therefore , the correlation gap of fractional knapsack is at least the ratio of the independent value of fractional knapsack to the correlated value of v(· ) when the budget constraint is satisfied , √ so at least 1 − 1/ Finally , observe that the correlated value of fractional knapsack upper bounds the correlated value of integral knapsack and that the independent value of integral knapsack is a 1 − 1/k ap√ proximation to the independent value of fractional knapsack . Therefore , the correlation gap of integral knapsack is at least ( 1 − 1/
2πk)(1 − 1/k ) .
2πk by Lemma 15 .
Comparison of Sequential and Oblivious posted pricing . We now compare the approxi√ mation ratio for additive value functions achieved using the sequential posted pricing mechanism with the bang per buck order , ( 1 − 1/ 2πk)(1 − 1/k ) , and using oblivious posted pricing where the budget is lowered , ( 1 − )(1 − e− 2(1− )k/12 ) . Figure 2 shows that the approximation ratio with the sequential ordering approaches 1 much faster than with the oblivious ordering as the size of the market increases . To obtain these results for oblivious posted pricing , we numerically solved for the best . We emphasize that we are comparing the theoretical bounds of these approaches , and not empirical performances .
6 Computing Prices
In the two previous sections , we gave conditions under which optimal prices from the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) perform well when offered sequentially or obliviously . In this section , we consider the computational problem of finding these prices . For submodular value functions , we reduce the problem to the well known greedy algorithm for submodular optimization . For additive value functions , we use a simple method based on the Lagrangian relaxation of the budget constraint .
14
6.1 The Lagrangian Relaxation for Additive Value Functions and the value function is v(S ) =
Consider the case of additive value functions where the principal has a value vi for each agent i i∈S vi . Recall the virtual surplus program ( 2 ) from Section 3 : which can be rewritten for additive value functions as :
Ec[v(x(c) ) ]
Ec[φi(c ) xi(c ) ] ≤ B , i
Ec[vi xi(c ) ] Ec[φi(c ) xi(c ) ] ≤ B . i i max x st max q st
( 2 )
( 6 )
( 7 )
We show that the ex ante optimal mechanism can be found directly by taking the Lagrangian relaxation of the budget constraint ( with parameter λ ) of the following Lagrangian program : max
λB +
Ec[(vi − λφi(ci ) ) xi(c ) ] . i x
For any Lagrangian parameter λ , this objective can be optimized by pointwise optimizing i(vi − λφi(ci ) ) xi(c ) , aka , the Lagrangian virtual surplus . This pointwise optimization picks all the agents such that vi ≥ λφi(ci ) . If the virtual cost functions are monotone , ie , in the socalled regular case , then this optimization gives a monotone allocation rule where an agent is picked whenever ci ≤ φ−1 i ( vi/λ )
Notice that as the Lagrangian parameter increases , the payments of the agents , as represented by virtual costs , become more costly in the objective of the lagrangian program ( 7 ) . Thus , the expected payment of the mechanism is monotonically decreasing in the Lagrangian parameter . With λ = 0 the Lagrangian virtual surplus optimizer simply maximizes v(x ) and pays each agent selected the maximum cost in the support of her distribution . If this payment is under budget then it is optimal , otherwise , we can increase λ until the budget constraint is satisfied . For example , with λ = ∞ the empty set of agents is selected and no payments are made . The optimal mechanism is the one that meets the budget constraint with equality . In the case that the expected payment is discontinuous then mixing between the least over budget and least under budget mechanism is optimal . For further discussion of Lagrangian virtual surplus optimizers , see Devanur et al . ( 2013 ) .
Proposition 18 . The Lagrangian virtual surplus optimizer ( or appropriate mixture thereof ) that meets the budget constraint with equality is the Bayesian optimal ex ante budget feasible mechanism . i ( vi/λ ) . The mechanism that achieves this outcome posts the price of ˆci = φ−1
Lagrangian virtual surplus optimization suggests selecting an agent i when her private cost ci is below φ−1 i ( vi/λ ) to agent i . Denote by ˆqi = Fi(ˆci ) the probability that i accepts the price ˆci . For the prices ˆc , the i ˆci ˆqi . When the virtual cost functions are monotone and strictly increasing , there is a Lagrangian parameter for which the budget constraint is met with equality , i ˆci ˆqi = B . The optimal ex ante mechanism is therefore the posted price mechanism i ˆci ˆqi = B . Note that i ˆci ˆqi is decreasing as total expected payments are ie , with that posts ˆci to each agent i for the Lagrangian parameter λ that satisfies such a Lagrangian parameter λ can be arbitrarily well approximated since a function of λ .
15
Example 1 . Consider n agents with costs drawn uniformly and iid from [ 0 , 1 ] and uniform additive value function vi = 1 for all i , ie , the cardinality function . The virtual cost function is φ(c ) = c + F ( c ) n/B induces a uniform posted price of ˆc =B/n which is accepted with probability ˆq =B/n for an expected payment of B/n . Summing f ( c ) = 2c . The Lagrangian parameter λ = 1
2 over all n agents , the budget is balanced ex ante .
6.2 A Reduction to the Greedy Algorithm for Submodular Optimization
For general submodular value functions we reduce the optimization of the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) , restated below , to the problem of optimizing a submodular function subject to a cardinality constraint . This problem of optimizing a submodular function under cardinality , knapsack , or matroid constraints is well studied and the greedy algorithm gives a 1− 1/e approximation for knapsack and cardinality constraints ; see Nemhauser et al . ( 1978 ) , Khuller et al . ( 1999 ) , and Sviridenko ( 2004 ) . max q st
V ( q ) qiF −1 i
( qi ) ≤ B . i
( 5 )
Define the cost curve of agent i to be the expected payment to agent i , ie , qiF −1 ( qi ) in our case . The main difference between the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) and the knapsack setting considered in the literature is that the cost curves in the knapsack setting are linear in qi . Our reduction to the greedy algorithm is the following . We divide each agent i , called a big agent , in cost space into m discrete agents ij of equal cost , called the small agents . An agent ij corresponds to the jth increase of qi , starting from qi = 0 , that has cost B/m . We set 1/m as a fraction of the total budget B which fixes the number of steps in the algorithm to be m . With large m , the reduction becomes a finer discretization . i
Before formally describing the reduction , we introduce some notation . For each i and j , let δij be the jth increase in qi , starting from qi = 0 , that has cost B/m , ie , δij satisfying B/m = F −1 k<j δik ) . Given a set S of small agents , the continuous solution corresponding to S is q(S ) with qi(S ) = k≤j δik ) − F −1 k≤j δik ) · ( ( k<j δik ) · ( i
( i j:ij∈S δij .
The reduction .
1 . For each agent i , create m small agents ij where 1 ≤ j ≤ m so that the reduced instance has mn agents .
2 . For each small agent ij , its cost is B/m .
3 . For each small agent ij , its marginal contribution VS(ij ) in value to a set S is the marginal contribution of increasing the fraction of agent i corresponding to S by δij , ie , V ( q)−V ( q(S ) ) where q i = qi(S ) + δij and q j = qj(S ) for j = i .
We show that the solution to the reduced problem that we obtained with the greedy algorithm for cardinality constraint corresponds to a solution for the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) that is a 1 − 1/e − o(1 ) approximation , almost matching the performance of the greedy algorithm for knapsack constraint with integral agents and linear cost curves . We start by showing that if a
16 solution is feasible in the reduced problem , then the continuous solution corresponding to it is a feasible solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) . Then , with access to exact values of the increases δij and of the marginal contributions VS(ij ) , the approximation ratio is 1 − 1/e − o(1 ) . Finally , we show that it is possible to approximate δij and VS(ij ) with estimates that cause an additional loss of o(1 ) to the approximation ratio . with qi(S ) =
From a set of small agents to a continuous solution for the big agents . Previously , we defined a distribution to be regular if the virtual cost function is monotonically increasing . An alternate definition is that a distribution F is regular if the cost curve q · F −1(q ) is convex . This definition is the analogue to the revenue curve being concave for regular distributions when the agents are buyers , and not sellers , from Bulow and Roberts ( 1989 ) .
Recall that given a set S of small agents , the continuous solution corresponding to S is q(S ) j:ij∈S δij and that δij is the jth increase in qi that has cost B/m . Therefore , given a set S of small agents of size at most m such that for any δij ∈ S , δik ∈ S for all k < j , then q(S ) has cost at most B . The condition that if δij ∈ S , then δik ∈ S for all k < j , is equivalent to the condition that greedy always picks small agents corresponding to lower quantiles before small agents corresponding to higher quantiles , which we show formally .
Lemma 19 . Given two small agents ik and ij such that k < j , the greedy algorithm with a cardinality constraint picks ik before ij for regular distributions Fi .
Proof . Since all small agents have equal cost , we need to show that ik has a larger marginal contribution than ij to any set S of small agents such that ik , ij ∈ S . Since V ( · ) is monotone , In quantile space , the cost of increasing some quantile qi by it suffices to show that δik > δij . a fix amount is increasing in qi since qi · F −1(qi ) is convex by definition of regular distributions . Therefore , in cost space , the increase in quantile δi that is obtained by increasing the cost curve by a fix amount is decreasing , so δik > δij .
The case of irregular distributions is considered in Section 8 .
With exact values of δij and VS(ij ) . We consider the case where the exact values of the increases in q and marginal contributions are given by an oracle . We show that finding a good solution to this reduced problem with small agents gives us a good solution to the problem with big agents . Lemma 20 . The optimal solution S(cid:63 ) to the reduced problem satisfies V ( q(S(cid:63) ) ) ≥ ( 1 − o(1))V ( ˆq ) where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) .
Proof . We pick the step size to be m = n2 . The proof shows that there exists a set S that is close to a feasible solution in the reduced problem and such that q(S ) is a better solution than ˆq . Let S be the set of small agents such that q(S ) is maximized subject to q(S ) ≤ ˆq . Define S+1 to be the set containing all small agents in S and one additional small agent for each big agent i . Observe that V ( q(S+1 ) ) ≥ V ( ˆq ) since V ( · ) is non decreasing . So there is a feasible solution to the discretized problem such that if we add one small agent for each big agent i , then we obtain a better solution than the optimal solution to the original problem .
Greedily remove agents by minimal marginal contribution from S+1 until we get a feasible solution S . The number of small agents who need to be removed is n since S is feasible . Since S
17 contains n2 small agents , by the greediness and the fact V ( · ) is concave along any line of positive direction , ( 1 + 1/n)V ( q(S ) ) ≥ V ( q(S+1) ) .
Therefore ,
( 1 + o(1))V ( q(S(cid:63) ) ) ≥ ( 1 + o(1))V ( q(S ) ) ≥ V ( q(S+1 ) ) ≥ V ( ˆq )
Next , we show that the reduced problem can be optimized .
Lemma 21 . Let S be the set returned by the greedy algorithm for submodular functions under a cardinality constraint on the reduced problem , then V ( q(S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e)V ( q(S∗ ) ) where S∗ is the optimal solution to the reduced problem .
Proof . Observe that the objective function in the reduced problem is a submodular function . This follows directly from the concavity of V ( · ) along any positive line of direction . In addition , since all small agents have cost B/m , the constraint is a cardinality constraint . Since the greedy algorithm for submodular functions under a cardinality constraint is a 1− 1/e approximation for submodular functions , we get the desired result .
We now have the tools to show that if we had an oracle for the increases and marginal contributions , the greedy algorithm on the reduced instance would give us a 1 − 1/e − o(1 ) approximation .
Lemma 22 . Let S be the output of the greedy algorithm on the reduced instance , where exact values of δij and VS(ij ) are given by an oracle at each iteration , then V ( q(S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˆq ) , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) .
Proof . We combine the results from the discretization that causes a o(1 ) loss with the greediness of the algorithm that is a 1 − 1/e approximation to obtain the desired result .
By Lemma 21 and Lemma 20 ,
V ( q(S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e)V ( q(S∗ ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˆq ) where S∗ is the optimal solution to the reduced problem .
With estimates of δij and VS(ij ) . We now show that we can use the greedy algorithm with estimates of the increases and the marginal contributions , that we can compute . Let ˜q(S ) be defined similarly to q(S ) but with estimates ˜δij . The first lemma shows that the value of the optimal solution to the reduced problem has almost the same value as when the increases δij are estimated . The second lemma extends Lemma 21 to the case where greedy is run with estimated marginal contributions ˜VS(ij ) and any ˜δij . We defer the proofs of these two lemmas to the appendix . Lemma 23 . Let S∗ be the optimal solution to the reduced problem with exact value of δij and VS(ij ) , then V ( ˜q(S∗ ) ) ≥ ( 1 − o(1))V ( q(S∗) ) . Lemma 24 . Let ˜S be the set returned by the greedy algorithm on the reduced problem with estimates ˜δij and ˜VS(ij ) , then V ( ˜q( ˜S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˜q(S∗ ) ) whp , where S∗ is the optimal solution to the reduced problem with estimates ˜δij and exact values VS(ij ) .
Combining the previous results , we obtain the main result of this section .
18
Theorem 25 . Let ˜S be the output by the greedy algorithm on the reduced instance with estimates of δij and VS(ij ) , then V ( ˜q( ˜S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˆq ) whp , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) .
Proof . This proof follows similarly to the one for Lemma 22 , the difference is that this proof adds the loss from the estimates .
By Lemma 23 and Lemma 24 ,
V ( ˜q( ˜S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˜q(S∗ ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( q(S∗ ) ) where S∗ is the optimal solution to the reduced problem . Using Lemma 20 that connects the discretized reduced instance to the original continuous problem , we conclude that
V ( ˜q( ˜S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( q(S∗ ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/e − o(1))V ( ˆq ) .
Note that in the case of additive value functions , the greedy algorithm is optimal when the optimization is subject to a cardinality constraint and the marginal contributions can be computed exactly . We therefore get the following result . Lemma 26 . Assume v(· ) is an additive value function . Let S be the set returned by the greedy algorithm on the reduced problem with estimates ˜δij , then V ( ˜q(S ) ) ≥ ( 1 − o(1))V ( ˆq ) whp , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) .
Therefore , all the results in previous sections suffer an extra 1− 1/e− o(1 ) factor in the general case of submodular value function and an extra 1− o(1 ) factor in the case of additive value function that are due to computational constraints .
7 Symmetric Costs and Values
In this section we study symmetric environments where both the distribution of costs and the value function are symmetric . A submodular value function is symmetric if the value of a set only depends on the cardinality of that set , ie , v(S ) = g(|S| ) for some function g(· ) . In this setting , we √ obtain an oblivious posted pricing that achieves an approximation ratio of ( 1 − 1/ 2πk)(1 − 1/k ) where k is the size of the market , which is identical to the approximation obtained in the additive case with sequential posted pricing . We assume that the distribution of costs is regular . The following technicalities are used for this section only . We overload the notation and denote by v(· ) : R+ → R+ the concave hull of the points {(i , v(Si))}n i=0 where Si is any set of size i . The posted prices in this section are symmetric and are defined by a single price ˆc , ie , ˆc = ( ˆc,··· , ˆc ) and ˆq = ( ˆq,··· , ˆq ) . Note that the market size k in such a symmetric setting is k = B/ˆc .
We start with two lemmas that highlight symmetric properties of the optimal solution to the concave closure program in this symmetric setting . Lemma 27 . For symmetric submodular value function v(· ) and symmetric distributions of costs , the optimal solution ˆq to the concave closure program ( 4 ) is symmetric , ie , ˆq+ for all i , j . i = ˆq+ j
Proof . By the concavity of the concave closure and the convexity of cost curves ( since the distribution of costs is regular ) , the program we wish to optimize is symmetric and convex , so the optimal solution is symmetric .
19
Lemma 28 . For symmetric monotone submodular value function v(· ) and symmetric distributions of costs , there exists a distribution D over sets of agents with marginals ˆq+ = ( ˆq+,··· , ˆq+ ) such that ES∼D[v(S ) ] = V +(ˆq+ ) and such that all sets S and T that can be drawn from D have size either k or ( cid:100)k . Proof . First , note that B = ˆc· n· ˆq+ since ˆq+ is the optimal solution to the concave closure program and since v(· ) is monotone , which implies that k = n · ˆq+ since k = B/ˆc . The expected value of a set of expected size n· ˆq+ drawn from a distribution is at most v(n· ˆq+ ) by the definition of concave hull . By taking a distribution D that is a mixture of sets of size n · ˆq+ = k and ( cid:100)n · ˆq+ = ( cid:100)k such that the marginals are ˆq+ , the expected value of a set drawn from D is v(n · ˆq+ ) since v(S ) is submodular . Combining the two previous observations , ES∼D[v(S ) ] = V +(ˆq+ ) since the concave closure is the maximum expected value over distributions with some marginals ˆq .
Given quantiles ˆq = ( ˆq,··· , ˆq ) , the value of the concave closure V +(ˆq ) can be computed easily by Lemma 28 and symmetricity . The concave closure program can therefore be approximated arbitrarily well and efficiently when there is symmetry , by using binary search to get arbitrarily close to the optimal quantile ˆq . Our approach for obtaining the desired approximation is to construct an additive function that lower bounds the symmetric submodular function on feasible sets and that upper bounds it otherwise .
Theorem 29 . In the case of symmetric monotone submodular value functions and symmetric regular cost distributions , the oblivious posted pricing ˆc = ( ˆc,··· , ˆc ) with ˆc = F −1(ˆq+ ) is an ( 1 − √ 2πk)(1 − 1/k ) approximation to the optimal ex ante mechanism , where ˆq+ = ( ˆq+,··· , ˆq+ ) is 1/ the optimal solution to the concave closure program ( 4 ) and k is the size of the market . Proof . By Lemma 28 , there exists a distribution D over sets of agents with marginals ˆq+ such that ES∼D[v(S ) ] = V +(ˆq+ ) and such that sets drawn from D have size k or ( cid:100)k . We consider the additive value function vadd(· ) defined as follow : vadd(S ) = |S| v(k ) k and overload the notation for vadd(· ) similarly as for v(· ) . We make the following observations about vadd(· ) :
• vadd(i ) ≤ v(i ) for i ≤ k and vadd(i ) ≥ v(i ) otherwise , by submodularity .
• ES∼D.vadd(S)fi ≥ ES∼D[v(S) ] , since vadd((cid:100)k ) ≥ v((cid:100)k ) and vadd(k ) = v(k ) .
• v(· ) is an additive set function with values vi = 1k v(k ) for each element . Since the feasible sets are sets of size at most k and by the first observation on vadd(· ) , the performance of the posted pricing mechanism is at least the independent integral knapsack value of vadd(· ) . The independent integral knapsack value of vadd(· ) is at most a factor ( 1 − 1/k ) away from its independent fractional knapsack value , ES∼ˆq+ observation on vadd(· ) , ES∼ˆq+
.vadd B ( S)fi . By Lemma 15 and the third )ES∼Dvadd(S)fi By the second observation on vadd(· ) , ES∼D.vadd(S)fi ≥ V +(ˆq+ ) . Since V +(ˆq+ ) is an upper bound on the optimal mechanism by
.vadd B ( S)fi ≥ ( 1− 1√
2πk
Lemma 6 , we get the desired result .
20
Note that in previous settings , we used the solution to the multilinear extension program to define the posted pricing mechanisms . In this setting , we used the solution to the concave closure program in order to take advantage of the concavity of the objective function for computational purposes . Finally , note that in the symmetric case , sequential posted pricing offers no advantage compared to oblivious posted pricing .
8
Irregular Distributions
In this section , we consider irregular distributions . Recall that a distribution F is regular if the virtual cost function is increasing , or equivalently , if the cost curve q· F −1(q ) is convex . The ironing method introduced by Myerson ( 1981 ) gives monotone ironed virtual costs and convex cost curves . With these convex cost curves , we construct randomized posted pricing mechanisms that enjoy the same approximation ratios as the deterministic mechanisms , albeit with a generalized definition of the market size k for randomized posted pricings . Additionally , in the case of additive objective functions , the sequential posted pricing is derandomized . Denote the cost curve of agent i by Ci(qi ) = qiF −1 ( qi ) . Bulow and Roberts ( 1989 ) observed that the derivative of the cost curve with respect to quantile is equal to the virtual cost function , i(qi ) = φi(ci ) . The ironing method constructs the convex hull ¯Ci(qi ) of the cost curve Ci(· ) . For C qi = Fi(ci ) , the ironed virtual costs are ¯φi(ci ) = ¯C i(qi ) . By taking the convex hull of the cost curves , we have convex cost curves and monotone ironed virtual costs as desired . The next two lemmas show that expected payments ¯Ci(ˆqi ) are feasible while serving each agent with probability ˆqi , and that no incentive compatible mechanism can do better . i
Lemma 30 ( Myerson , 1981 , Bulow and Roberts , 1989 ) . For any agent with cost drawn from distribution Fi and any incentive compatible mechanism that selects agent i with probability ˆqi , the expected payment to agent i is at least ¯Ci(ˆqi ) .
We give the proof of the following known lemma since it exhibits how to pick the prices and the probabilities of the randomized mechanisms .
Lemma 31 ( Myerson , 1981 ) . Expected payment ¯Ci(ˆqi ) while serving agent i with probability ˆqi is achievable using a randomized posted pricing with at most two prices .
Proof . Fix a seller i and an ex ante sale probability ˆqi . If ˆqi = Ci(ˆqi ) , then it suffices to post price F −1 ( ˆqi ) . Otherwise , let a be the largest quantile smaller than ˆqi such that ¯Ci(a ) = Ci(a ) . Similarly , i let b the smallest quantile larger than ˆqi such that ¯Ci(b ) = Ci(b ) . The interval [ a , b ] corresponds to the ironed interval in which ˆqi falls in . By the definition of convex hull , we get
) ¯Ci(a ) + ( 1 − b − ˆqi b − a
) ¯Ci(b ) = ( 1 − ˆqi − a b − a
)Ci(a ) + ( 1 − b − ˆqi b − a
)Ci(b ) .
( a ) with probability 1 − ˆqi−a b−a and F −1 i
( b ) with probability 1 − b−ˆqi b−a
¯Ci(ˆqi ) = ( 1 − ˆqi − a b − a Therefore , posting price F −1 i has expected payment ¯Ci(ˆqi ) and the ex ante probability that seller i accepts the price is ˆqi .
By Lemma 30 and Lemma 31 , the ex ante results also hold for the irregular case using randomized posted pricing . The following definition generalizes the notion of posted prices to allow for randomization .
21
Definition 6 . For a randomized posted pricing ˆq ,
• Prices ˆci1 and ˆci2 with probabilities of picking each price are induced by ˆqi . • Randomly pick ˆci1 or ˆci2 . • In the case of sequential posted pricing , set the ordering to be in decreasing order of bang per buck .
Definition 7 . With randomized posted pricing , a market is k large if B/ˆcij ≥ k for all agents i and j ∈ {1 , 2} .
8.1 From Ex Ante to Ex Post with Additive Value Functions
For the additive case , we first show that the ex post randomized posted pricing performs well and then derandomize the mechanism . Theorem 32 . The randomized sequential posted pricing mechanism ( ˆq , σ(· ) ) that serve agents with probability ˆq , where ˆq is the solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) and where the order σ(· ) is decreasing in vi 2πk)(1 − 1/k ) approximation to the optimal mechanism in a k large market .
, is a ( 1 − 1/
√
ˆci
Proof . We show that the randomized sequential posted pricing performs better than a deterministic sequential posted pricing with the same ex ante performance and a market that is k large . Consider a randomized agent i who is offered ˆci = ˆci1 with probability ρ and ˆci = ˆci2 otherwise . Remove agent i and replace it with two deterministic agents i1 and i2 with value vi , who are offered ˆci1 and ˆci2 and who accept their price with probability ρFi(ˆci1 ) and ( 1 − ρ)Fi(ˆci2 ) respectively . Call this new posted pricing the deterministic instance and the original posted pricing the randomized instance .
Both instances have the same ex ante performance since the expected total cost remains the same and since agent i accepts his offer with probability equal to the sum of the probabilities that agents i1 and i2 accept their offer . Fix a set S of agents who accept their offer that does not include i and fix these offers . Notice that in both the randomized and deterministic instance , there is an expected increase in the total cost of ˆci1ρFi(ˆci1 ) + ˆci2(1− ρ)Fi(ˆci2 ) caused by agent i to S . However , in the randomized instance , this increase in cost is either ˆci1 or ˆci2 and in the deterministic instance , this increase in cost can also be ˆci1 + ˆci2 . Since agents are ordered by decreasing bang per buck , the loss from agents that do not fit in the ex post budget constraint is greater in the deterministic case . Therefore , the loss of the fractional knapsack value with respect to the ex ante performance of the mechanism is greater in the deterministic instance . istic . So the approximation ratio obtained by the randomized mechanism is ( 1− 1/ by combining Lemma 15 and the 1 − 1/k loss from dropping the fractional agent .
√ Now note that this argument can be repeated inductively until all the agents left are determin2πk)(1− 1/k ) ,
We now show that the mechanism can be derandomized .
Theorem 33 . Any sequential randomized posted pricing ( ˆq , σ(· ) ) can be modified into a sequential deterministic posted pricing in the case of additive value functions .
22
Proof . The proof proceeds in two steps . The first reduces the number of randomized agents until there is one left by using properties of ironed intervals . The second step is to simply pick the best of the two prices that are offered to the last randomized agent . Consider a randomized posted pricing ( ˆq , σ(· ) ) with at least two agents i and j that are randomized . The marginal cost per unit value of these two agents are ¯C i(ˆqi)/vi = ¯φi(ci)/vi and ¯φj(cj)/vj . Without loss of generality , assume ¯φi(ci)/vi ≤ ¯φj(cj)/vj . Since both of these agents are randomized , ˆqi and ˆqj are within ironed intervals and their ironed virtual costs are constants within these intervals . With no loss in the objective function , we can therefore increase ˆqi and decrease ˆqj such that the budget still binds and such that either ˆqi or ˆqj is at the extremity of the ironed interval it is in , and therefore not randomized anymore . This construction can be repeated until one randomized agent is left .
Consider a randomized posted pricing with a unique randomized agent i who is offered ˆci = ˆci1 with probability ρ and ˆci = ˆci2 otherwise . The proof of Theorem 32 shows that the ratio between √ the performance of the optimal mechanism and the expected fractional knapsack value is at least 1 − 1/ √ 2πk . Agent i is either offered ˆci1 or ˆci2 , so by expectations , with at least one of these two offers , the previous ratio is at least 1− 1/ √ 2πk . Dropping the fractional agent and keeping the best 2πk)(1− 1/k ) approximation for a deterministic price to offer to agent i , we therefore get a ( 1− 1/ mechanism . Corollary 34 . Any sequential randomized posted pricing ( ˆq , σ(· ) ) can be modified with high probability into a sequential deterministic posted pricing in the case of additive value functions with an additional o(1 ) loss in polynomial time .
Proof . We need to compute which offered price between ˆci1 and ˆci2 performs better in terms of fractional knapsack value . Fractional knapsack is a submodular function and the multilinear extension of submodular functions can be approximated arbitrarily well by sampling using Chernoff bounds . Therefore , with high probability , it is possible to compare arbitrarily well the fractional knapsack value obtained with the two offered prices to agent i .
8.2 From Ex Ante to Ex Post with Submodular Value Functions
With submodular value functions , the analysis for the oblivious randomized posted pricing is identical as the analysis for the oblivious deterministic posted pricing . In Section 4 , Theorem 10 shows that by lowering the budget by some small amount , we get that the sum of the costs does not exceed the budget with high probability . Note that this results does not only hold for deterministic agents but also for randomized agents since the payment pi to an agent i only need to be bounded by B/k and is not restricted to be either 0 or ˆci . Therefore , the sum of the costs does not exceed the budget with high probability in the randomized case as well and the remaining of the analysis of section 4 also holds . Theorem 35 . For ∈ ( 0 , 1/2 ) , if the randomized oblivious posted pricing ˆq , where ˆq is the optimal solution to the multilinear extension program ( 5 ) with budget ( 1 − )B , satisfies 2/ ≤ k ≤ B/ maxi ˆci , then this posted pricing mechanism is a ( 1− 1/e)(1− )(1− e− 2(1− )k/12 ) approximation to the optimal mechanism for submodular value functions and ( 1− )(1− e− 2(1− )k/12 ) for additive value functions .
23
9 Conclusion
We consider questions of budget feasibility in a Bayesian setting . We show that simple posted pricing mechanisms are ex post budget feasible and approximate the Bayesian optimal mechanism . Our analysis first considers the ex ante relaxation where the budget constraint is allowed to hold in expectation . Good approximations are obtained when this ex ante relaxation is optimized for a slightly reduced budget or when the agents are ordered by bang per buck ( value divided by offered price ) . The latter approach , in the case of additive value functions when it applies , gives better bounds .
Another method for designing posted pricing mechanisms from the literature comes from the generalized magician ’s problem from Alaei ( 2014 ) . Unfortunately , this approach does not satisfy the monotonicity property of Theorem 9 needed to apply known results that give a good approximation in the case of submodular functions . Thus , it is unclear whether this approach can be adapted to budget feasibility questions .
24
References
Agrawal , S . , Ding , Y . , Saberi , A . , and Ye , Y . ( 2010 ) . Correlation robust stochastic optimization . In Proceedings of the twenty first annual ACM SIAM symposium on Discrete Algorithms , pages 1087–1096 . Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics .
Alaei , S . ( 2014 ) . Bayesian combinatorial auctions : Expanding single buyer mechanisms to many buyers . SIAM Journal on Computing , 43(2):930–972 .
Anari , N . , Goel , G . , and Nikzad , A . ( 2014 ) . Mechanism design for crowdsourcing : An optimal 1 1/e competitive budget feasible mechanism for large markets . In Foundations of Computer Science ( FOCS ) , 2014 IEEE 55th Annual Symposium on , pages 266–275 . IEEE .
Badanidiyuru , A . , Kleinberg , R . , and Singer , Y . ( 2012 ) . Learning on a budget : posted price mechanisms for online procurement . In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce , pages 128–145 . ACM .
Bansal , N . , Korula , N . , Nagarajan , V . , and Srinivasan , A . ( 2010 ) . On k column sparse packing programs . In Integer Programming and Combinatorial Optimization , pages 369–382 . Springer .
Bei , X . , Chen , N . , Gravin , N . , and Lu , P . ( 2012 ) . Budget feasible mechanism design : from prior free to bayesian . In Proceedings of the forty fourth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing , pages 449–458 . ACM .
Bulow , J . and Roberts , J . ( 1989 ) . The simple economics of optimal auctions . The Journal of
Political Economy , pages 1060–1090 .
Calinescu , G . , Chekuri , C . , P´al , M . , and Vondr´ak , J . ( 2007 ) . Maximizing a submodular set function subject to a matroid constraint . In Integer programming and combinatorial optimization , pages 182–196 . Springer .
Calinescu , G . , Chekuri , C . , P´al , M . , and Vondr´ak , J . ( 2011 ) . Maximizing a monotone submodular function subject to a matroid constraint . SIAM Journal on Computing , 40(6):1740–1766 .
Chawla , S . , Hartline , J . D . , Malec , D . L . , and Sivan , B . ( 2010 ) . Multi parameter mechanism design and sequential posted pricing . In Proceedings of the forty second ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing , pages 311–320 . ACM .
Chawla , S . , Hartline , J . D . , and Sivan , B . ( 2012 ) . Optimal crowdsourcing contests . In Proceedings of the twenty third annual ACM SIAM symposium on discrete algorithms , pages 856–868 . SIAM .
Chen , N . , Gravin , N . , and Lu , P . ( 2011 ) . On the approximability of budget feasible mechanisms . In Proceedings of the twenty second annual ACM SIAM symposium on Discrete Algorithms , pages 685–699 . SIAM .
Devanur , N . R . , Ha , B . Q . , and Hartline , J . D . ( 2013 ) . Prior free auctions for budgeted agents . In Proceedings of the Fourteenth ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce , pages 287–304 . ACM .
Ensthaler , L . and Giebe , T . ( 2014 ) . Bayesian optimal knapsack procurement . European Journal of
Operational Research , 234(3):774–779 .
25
Es¨o , P . and Futo , G . ( 1999 ) . Auction design with a risk averse seller . Economics Letters , 65(1):71–
74 .
Ho , C J , Slivkins , A . , Suri , S . , and Vaughan , J . W . ( 2015 ) .
Incentivizing high quality crowdwork . In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on World Wide Web , pages 419–429 . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee .
Immorlica , N . , Stoddard , G . , and Syrgkanis , V . ( 2015 ) . Social status and badge design . In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on World Wide Web , pages 473–483 . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee .
Khuller , S . , Moss , A . , and Naor , J . S . ( 1999 ) . The budgeted maximum coverage problem . Infor mation Processing Letters , 70(1):39–45 .
Myerson , R . ( 1981 ) . Optimal auction design . Mathematics of Operations Research , 6:58–73 .
Myerson , R . and Satterthwaite , M . ( 1983 ) . Efficient mechanisms for bilaterial trade . Journal of
Economic Theory , 29:265–281 .
Nemhauser , G . L . , Wolsey , L . A . , and Fisher , M . L . ( 1978 ) . An analysis of approximations for maximizing submodular set functionsi . Mathematical Programming , 14(1):265–294 .
Singer , Y . ( 2010 ) . Budget feasible mechanisms . In The 51st Annual IEEE Symposium on Founda tions of Computer Science , pages 765–774 . IEEE .
Singer , Y . and Mittal , M . ( 2013 ) . Pricing mechanisms for crowdsourcing markets . In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web , pages 1157–1166 . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee .
Singla , A . and Krause , A . ( 2013 ) . Truthful incentives in crowdsourcing tasks using regret minimization mechanisms . In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web , pages 1167–1178 . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee .
Sviridenko , M . ( 2004 ) . A note on maximizing a submodular set function subject to a knapsack constraint . Operations Research Letters , 32(1):41–43 .
Vondr´ak , J . , Chekuri , C . , and Zenklusen , R . ( 2011 ) . Submodular function maximization via the multilinear relaxation and contention resolution schemes . In Proceedings of the forty third annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing , pages 783–792 . ACM .
Yan , Q . ( 2011 ) . Mechanism design via correlation gap . In Proceedings of the twenty second annual
ACM SIAM symposium on Discrete Algorithms , pages 710–719 . SIAM .
26
APPENDIX i k<j δik )· ( (
Missing proofs from section 6 Proof of Lemma 23 . We need to find the increase satisfies B/m = F −1 k≤j δik ) − F −1 k<j δik ) . To approximate it , we find ˜δij such that ( 1− 1/n3)δij ≤ ˜δij ≤ δi , which can be done easily since the weight functions are increasing . Recall that ˜q(S ) is defined similarly to q(S ) but with estimates ˜δij . Let S(cid:63 ) be the optimal solution of the problem with small agents without noise . Since ( 1 − 1/n3)δij ≤ ˜δij ≤ δij for all i , j , we get that ˜q(S(cid:63 ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/n)q(S(cid:63) ) . By the concavity of V ( · ) along positive lines of direction , we get that V ( ˜q(S(cid:63) ) ) ≥ ( 1 − 1/n)V ( q(S(cid:63)) ) . k≤j δik ) · ( ( i
Proof of Lemma 24 . First note that the objective function for the reduced instance is a submodular function regardless of the values of ˜δij . So since we are comparing ourselves with ˜q(S∗ ) , it remains to show that the greedy algorithm with a noisy oracle on marginal contribution of agents performs well . Let g(· ) be the objective function of the reduced instance . The marginal contributions are estimated by taking 10 δ4 ( 1 + ln n ) samples of the random set with independent marginal probabilities q . By using basic Chernoff bounds as in Calinescu et al . ( 2011 ) , we get that with high probability , all the estimates that are computed during the algorithm have an additive error of at most δ2g(S(cid:63) ) . Let S be the set of small agents returned by the algorithm . Let Si = {e1 , . . . , ei} be the value of S after i iterations . Now since g(· ) is submodular , g(S(cid:63 ) ) ≤ g(Si−1 ) + gSi−1(e ) e∈S(cid:63)\Si−1
By the greediness of the algorithm , ˜gSi−1(ei ) ≥ ˜gSi−1(e ) for all e ∈ S(cid:63 ) \ Si−1 . So , gSi−1(ei ) + 2δ2g(S(cid:63 ) ) ≥ gSi−1(e ) , and g(S(cid:63 ) ) ≤ g(Si−1 ) + ( 1 − 2δ)g(S(cid:63 ) ) ≤ g(Si−1 ) +
1 δ 1 δ
( gSi−1(ei ) + 2δ2g(S(cid:63) ) ) gSi−1(ei )
Then , by following identically the remaining of the proof for the e/(e − 1 ) approximation for greedy subject to a cardinality constraint , but by replacing g(S(cid:63 ) ) by ( 1 − 2δ)g(S(cid:63) ) , we get that ( 1 − 1/e)g(S ) ≥ ( 1 − 2δ)g(S(cid:63) ) , which concludes the proof .
27
