On the Discovery of Success Trajectories of Authors
Dinesh Pradhan1,a , Tanmoy Chakraborty2,b , Saswata Pandit3,a , Subrata Nandi4,a aDept . of Computer Science & Engg . , National Institute of Technology , Durgapur , India bUniversity of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computer Studies ( UMIACS ) , College Park , MD 20742
{1dineshkrp,3saswatapandit94,4subratanandi}@gmailcom
2tanchak@umiacsumdedu
6 1 0 2 b e F 5
] L D . s c [
1 v 4 0 9 1 0
.
2 0 6 1 : v i X r a
ABSTRACT Understanding the qualitative patterns of research endeavor of scientific authors in terms of publication count and their impact ( citation ) is important in order to quantify success trajectories . Here , we examine the career profile of authors in computer science and physics domains and discover at least six different success trajectories in terms of normalized citation count in longitudinal scale . Initial observations of individual trajectories lead us to characterize the authors in each category . We further leverage this trajectory information to build a two stage stratification model to predict future success of an author at the early stage of her career . Our model outperforms the baseline with an average improvement of 15.68 % for both the datasets . Keywords Success trajectories , ; citation networks ; prediction 1 .
INTRODUCTION
An individual author ’s career trajectory is governed by a plenty of decisions and unforeseen events , that can significantly impact her career . As a result , the career trajectory is subjected to an author ’s past accomplishments and can be of different shapes in temporal scale . A success trajectory can be defined with respect to different objectives , such as research publications , funding , teaching ability etc . However , most important criterion accepted universally is the citation count of an author ’s scientific publications . Most of the author centric indices , such as h index , g index captures either growth or saturation of research profiles , however fails to capture the decline of success . Analyzing the decline of success is similarly important to unfold several aspects , such as whether the authors are still active in research , how worthy are their recent publications , do they overcome the “ test of time ” challenge etc .
Here , we explore two massive datasets consisting of papers related to computer science and physics domains , and analyze the success trajectory of authors in terms of the normalized citation count ( ratio between total citations and
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s ) . WWW’16 Companion , April 11–15 , 2016 , Montréal , Québec , Canada . ACM 978 1 4503 4144 8/16/04 . http://dxdoiorg/101145/28725182889375
( i ) total publications ) over the years . Interestingly , we discover at least six distinct categories of success trajectories , which to the best of our knowledge is revealed here for the first time in the granularity of individual authors . Finally , we build a system which predicts ( mean accuracy 15.68 % more than the baseline system ) the future success of an author at the early stage of her career . 2 . EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND RESULTS Datasets . We crawled two massive bibliographic datasets [ 2 ] : CS ( 2,473,171 articles in computer science ) , ( ii ) Physics ( 425,399 articles in Physical Review journals ) . After preprocessing , we consider 1,549,317 and 295,311 authors respectively from CS and Physics datasets whose publication informations are available for at least 10 years . Heuristics for trajectory discovery . To begin with , we take the selected sets of authors with the information of their papers and citations over time . An initial three year buffer window is provided to each author with the assumption that unlike for a paper , a few years time frame is always required for an author to set up her career . Therefore , we consider the fourth year of the career timeline of an author as the beginning of the logical year of her career profile . Then we quantify the success of an author a at year t ( termed as St a ) by the ratio between the number of citations received by a till t ( termed as C t a ) and the number of papers published by a till t ( terms as P t a ) . This is followed by a series of data processing : firstly , to smoothen the longitudinal data points corresponding to an author , we use five years moving average filtering for smoothing ; secondly , we scale the data points by normalizing them with the maximum value present in the time series ; finally , we use two heuristics for peak detection : ( i ) the height of a peak should be at least 75 % of the maximum peak height , and ( ii ) two consecutive peaks should be separated by more than 2 years ; otherwise they are treated as a single peak . Categories of success trajectories . Remarkably , we observe six different patterns of success trajectories of authors based on the count and the position of peaks present in a trajectory ( see Figure 1(left) ) : ( i ) Early risers ( ER ) : authors whose career peaks once within initial 5 years ( but not in the first year ) followed by a decay ; ( ii ) Late risers ( LR ) : authors whose career peaks once after at least 5 years since she has published her first paper , followed by a decay ; ( iii ) Frequent risers ( FR ) : authors whose career peaks multiple times over the years ; ( iv ) Steady risers ( SR ) : authors having a monotonic increasing growth of success over the years ; Steady droppers ( SD ) : authors whose career peaks in the first year followed by a monotonic decrease over the years ;
Figure 1 : ( Color online)(Left ) Sample examples ( taken from CS dataset ) of success trajectories ; ( Right ) Characteristics of different trajectory categories for CS ( black ) and Physics ( red ) datasets ( NA : Not Applicable ) . and Others ( OT ) : apart from the above types , there exist a large volume of authors who on an average publish less than one paper per year and receive less than one citation per year . Due to the lack of proper statistical evidences , we categorize them into a separate category . Characterizing individual success trajectories . Next , we attempt to understand the authors of individual categories in more details ( see Figure 1(right) ) . First , we calculate the percentage of authors in each category and observe that steady risers are the major class of authors , followed by late risers ; whereas steady droppers are rare . Second , we measure the average impact of authors in each category and notice that while in CS domain frequent risers are the most profound authors in terms of h index , in Physics steadyrisers dominate others , the reason being that physicists prefer publishing papers in Journals ( see later ) . However , as expected steady droppers seem to be least prominent . Third , for CS dataset we notice that early risers and steady droppers tend to publish papers mostly in conferences , while steadyand frequent risers prefer publications in journals . Forth and most interestingly , we observe that early risers and steadydroppers are mostly affected by self citations 1 . Had the selfcitations been discarded from the analysis , 53 % early risers and 63 % steady droppers have migrated to OT category .
A deeper inspection of the decay in the success trajectories of early risers , late risers and steady droppers for CS ( Physics ) dataset revels that around 82 % ( 79 % ) cases the value of success drops due to the enormous volume of individual publications overshadowing the effect of incoming citations . Further , we observe that during the time of decay , 46 % ( 37 % ) of authors are unable to retain their most prominent collaborators ( in terms of h index ) , indicating that the effect of collaboration might be a reason for this decay . Interestingly , for both the datasets ( CS ; Physics ) the rate of publications of steady risers ( 2.06 ; 1.27 ) is least among others ( on average 4.32 ; 3.29 ) , which indicates that formers tend to emphasize on quality , rather than quantity . Leveraging trajectory information for predicting success . One crucial question in this context is – how can the trajectory information be leveraged for building real applications ? Here we consider the task of predicting success ( defined above ) of an author in future at the early stage ( t years after her first appearance ) of her career . We consider
1
A citation is marked as self citation if there is at least one author common in both citing and cited papers . the same set of author centric features ( along with the first two years citations and publications of authors ) and framework discussed by Chakraborty et al . [ 1 ] where Support Vector Regression ( SVR ) [ 1 ] turned out to be the best learning framework . We use 10 fold cross validation technique . The baseline is designed by training SVR on the entire training samples and predicting the success of a query author by fitting the regression equation . On the other hand , we propose a two stage stratification learning model [ 3 ] . In stage one , a query author is mapped into one of the trajectories/strata2 using a Support Vector Machine that learns from the same set of features used in the baseline . In the second stage , only those authors corresponding to the category of the query authors are used to train the SVR module to predict the future citation count of the query author . In this way , we remove the effect of random noise while training the regression model . Experimental results show that our model achieves 15.09 % ( 16.3 % ) and 14.7 % ( 10.5 % ) more accuracy in term of mean squared error and Pearson correlation coefficient respectively for CS ( Physics ) dataset3 . 3 . CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We discovered and characterized success trajectories of authors in two massive datasets . We believe that this information may be useful to develop models for performance prediction . Our study here for a span of at least initial 10 years performance may be extended over several decades of an author ’s lifetime , which would lead to a complete characterization of her career . Understanding the dominant features among author ’s collaboration profile , affiliation , research domain , etc . which primarily controls the success profile may also be worth exploring further . 4 . REFERENCES [ 1 ] T . Chakraborty , S . Kumar , P . Goyal , N . Ganguly , and A . Mukherjee . Towards a stratified learning approach to predict future citation counts . In JCDL , 2014 .
[ 2 ] T . Chakraborty , S . Sikdar , N . Ganguly , and
A . Mukherjee . Citation interactions among computer science fields : a quantitative route to the rise and fall of scientific research . SNAM , 4(1):1–18 , 2014 .
[ 3 ] G . Haro , G . Randall , and G . Sapiro . Stratification
Learning : Detecting Mixed Density and Dimensionality in High Dimensional Point Clouds . In NIPS . 2007 .
2
Note that we know the category information of the authors present in the train ing set a priori , and therefore the training points are divided into six categories . 3
The results are averaged over t , ranging from 3 to 6 .
