From : KDD 96 Proceedings . Copyright © 1996 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Detecting Early Indicator Cars in an Automotive Database :
A Multi Strategy Approach Ruediger Wirth & Thomas P . Reinartz
Daimler Benz AG
Research & Technology F3 S/E
PO Box 2360
89013 Ulm , Germany e mail : {wirth,reinartz}@dbagulmDaimlerBenzCOM
Abstract
No company so far achieved the ultimate goal of zero faults in manufacturing . Even high quality products occasionally show problems that must be handled as warranty cases . In this paper , we report work done during the development of an early warning system for a large quality information database in the automotive industry . We present a multi strategy approach to flexible prediction of upcoming quality problems . We used existing techniques and combined them in a novel way to solve a concrete application problem . The basic idea is to identify sub populations that , at an early point in time , behave like the whole population at a later time . Such sub populations future developments . We present our method in the context of a concrete application and present experimental results . At the end of the paper , we outline how this method can be generalised and transferred to other KDD application problems . as early indicators act for
Introduction
No company so far achieved the ultimate goal of zero faults in manufacturing . Even very high quality products , like Mercedes Benz vehicles , occasionally show problems that must be handled as warranty cases . At MercedesBenz , such cases are recorded in a large database , which contains information on all Mercedes vehicles . For each vehicle , information on its technical configuration and its repair history is stored . This information includes faults and their repairs , the mileage at the repair time , costs associated with the repair , and the area where the repair was performed , for example . Currently , this quality information database contains about 7 million vehicles ; the net size of the database is about 25 Giga bytes .
Domain experts access this database for various tasks including l observation of product quality in the field , early detection of important faults and their causes , l . prediction of warranty costs , l initiation of actions for product improvement .
76
KDD 96 limited
Most database analyses are currently to standardised SQL queries and descriptive statistics . Nevertheless , users expect a lot of useful information hidden in these databases that is not accessible by conventional methods . Knowledge Discovery in Databases ( KDD ) ( cf . Piatetsky Shapiro & Frawley 1991 ; Frawley , Piatetsky Shapiro , & Matheus 1992 ; Fayyad et al . 1996 ) has the potential to disclose this hidden information and also to improve the analysis capabilities by facilitating the tasks of the users .
A successful application of KDD techniques in the quality information domain at Mercedes Benz will have high impact on the business . Warranty costs belong to the best kept secrets of a company . Typically , a lot of money and prestige are involved . As an indication of the magnitude of this problem area , consider publicized recall actions of car manufacturers . Such actions can easily cost dozens of millions of dollars , not counting the negative impact on the image of the company . first elicited
The presented application domain has been tackled following the task model proposed by Reinartz & Wirth ( 1995 ) and Wirth & Reinartz ( 1995 ) . In a thorough application analysis we the users’ requirements , expectations and prior knowledge . Various application goals were identified in this phase . One of these goals is the development of an early warning system for quality problems . In this paper , we present a particular multi strategy approach to prediction that is very useful for an early warning system . This approach is very flexible , not tied to particular techniques , and can be generalised to other KDD problems such as focusing .
Scientifically , this application domain serves to evaluate and improve KDD techniques . In particular , we develop and refile a methodology of ISDD to guide a user through the process . This methodological approach is task oriented and not driven by techniques . It is based on a systematic refinement of tasks that will be finally mapped to techniques . This task refinement provides us with a framework to set up trials with different techniques until the best combination of techniques is found . Thus , the iterative and interactive nature of the KDD process ( Fayyad et al . , 1996 , Bra&man & Anand 1994 ) is the supported . Here , we focus on the application point of view .
As argued in Wirth & Reinartz ( 1995 ) , the main bottleneck for JXDD applications is not the lack of techniques . The challenge is to exploit and combine existing algorithms in the most profitable way in the context of real applications . Most successful KDD applications ( eg , SKICAT ( Fayyad , Weir , & Djorgovski 1993 ) , OpportunityExplorer ( Anand & Kahn 1993 ) ) did not rely on sophisticated new techniques . The reason for their success was intelligent combination and adaptation of known techniques wrt the constraints of the application problem . Once developed , these methods ( ie , combinations of techniques ) can be transferred to other similar application problems . The application reported in this paper follows the same spirit . We rely on existing ( although slightly modified ) techniques , which we combined in a novel way to solve a concrete application problem . The resulting method can now be transferred to similar KDD application problems .
The paper is organised as follows . First , we describe the application problem in more detail . Then , we outline our solution approach . We first identified the tasks that need to be solved and refined these tasks until they could be mapped to KDD techniques . We describe our concrete realisation and show experimental results . Finally , we critically assess the results , sketch potential benefits of our approach to KDD in general , and point out future work .
Application Problem top of the quality
Currently , Mercedes Benz is developing an early warning system on information database mentioned in the previous section . The early warning system should discover upcoming quality problems as soon as possible . The earlier quality problems are detected the earlier product improvement actions can be initiated to save future warranty costs . Furthermore , an early warning system can help to avoid expensive recall actions . If an upcoming quality problem with a line of cars is discovered early enough , there may be time to overcome this problem by preventive maintenance actions at regular maintenance intervals , for example . Expensive follow up faults can be prevented and the customer does not realise that there could have been a problem in the future .
The current system is based on conventional information technology and simple descriptive statistics . It is rigid , restricted in its capabilities , and consumes a lot of resources because it operates on the whole database . Using a KDD approach , we aim at making the system more terms of computing time , and capable to warn even earlier . less expensive , faster
The solution approach described in this paper was inspired by the following observation . The experts look at sub populations of the cars if they want to get a first idea flexible , in about the rate of certain faults . For instance , people in certain countries seem to be more concerned with the paint of a car . If the experts want to check the quality of the paint they look at the cars in this country first . Any problem with the paint is likely to be observed there first . Taxis are another sub population which is watched closely because they drive many miles in a short period .
Teic 1 total population
Figure I Predicting fault rates using early indicator cars in certain aspects , behave like
The question was , could this approach be generalised and automated . Do there exist sub populations of cars which , the whole population of cars at a later point in time ? If yes , how can they be characterized by easily observable attributes ? In the following , we call such sub populations early indicator cars ( EICs ) .
Figure 1 illustrates the idea of EICs . Assume we observe a certain aspect of the fault profile , for instance a fault rate , over the life time of cars . The lower line in the diagram shows the accumulated fault rate for a certain fault for cars from the same production period . Assume that we are now at time T , , and we want to predict the fault rate at time T , . If we had EICs then we could compute the fault rate for the EICs at time T , , and use this value as predicted value for the fault rate of the whole population at time T , . In this example , the EICs would indicate an increasing fault rate although the total fault rate still looks fine at time T, , .
The discussion above suggests the following high level procedure . First , select a production period which is used for learning . It needs to be a period in the past such that the values of the relevant attributes at time T , are already known . In the following , we will call this production period the learning production period . From this learning production period we derive a procedure the identification of EICs which is independent from a particular production period . This identification procedure will then be applied to subsequent production periods . Each production period then has its own set of EICs which are used for prediction.’ for
1 From another point of view , the identification procedure for EICs could be viewed as a particular prediction model .
Data Mining Applications’
77
I I
Database t , leaming period Brcartype
Characterisatim
Figure 2 : Main steps for detecting EICs
Pre Processing
,_________________________________
Data Mining
___________
In the context of an early warning system , EICs are an attractive concept because they promise the following benefits : l
Significant changes in the fault profile will be detected earlier . Such changes include upcoming new quality problems , a change in the fault rate or average costs for certain faults . Analyses can be performed on smaller sets of vehicles . Thus , resources are saved which can be used for different or more detailed analyses . Some analyses , for instance the application of sophisticated learning algorithms , may not even be possible on the whole population.2 The EICs can be used to predict various aspects of the fault profile , eg , values , interesting events , and trends . Thus , prediction is much more flexible than with traditional statistical methods like time series analyses . While EICs alone will not be sufficient for a comprehensive early warning system , they will certainly form a very powerful central part . l l
Solution Approach
In this section , we describe our approach to detection of EICs . We pursued a task oriented approach . We first identified the tasks that needed to be solved , refined these
2 Therefore , the EIC approach is closely linked to the focusing problem in KDD .
78
KDD 96 tasks and made them more precise until they could be mapped to KDD techniques . Different techniques could have been applied to solve the tasks . In the next sections , we describe one particular choice of techniques and report experimental results .
In
Basic idea Our solution approach consists of three major steps . 1 . Characterize the fault profile for the whole population of cars at a certain time T , . 2 . Select EICs . 3 . Generate an identification procedure for EICs . the first step , the fault profile of the whole population of cars at a certain time T , is characterized . A fault profile is a vague term which could be characterized in various ways . In any case , it will be described in terms of fault relevant attributes .
In the second step , EICs need to be selected . For this purpose , we compute the values for the fault attributes at an earlier time T, , . Those cars which fit the fault profile of the whole population at T , are considered to be EICs . The identification procedure for EICs must take into account that EICs need to be identified at production time or shortly after . Therefore , we cannot use attributes that relate directly to the fault profile . EICs need to be characterized by easily observable attributes , like type and configuration of a car or areas where it was sold . This requires the use of two separate sets of attributes . One set is related to the fault profile and the other set contains attributes that can be observed at production time . Figure 2 shows the procedure .
Realisation In this section , we describe techniques and set up of experiments we conducted to assess the applicability of the approach outlined in the previous sections .
The main choice for the realisation concerned the fault profile . We decided to represent the fault profiles as a hierarchy of classes . Classes contain cars which are similar according to a set of attributes which domain experts judged to be relevant for the fault profile . hierarchical
( Reich 1994 ) for
The characterization of a fault profile can then be mapped to a ( conceptual ) clustering task ( eg , Gennari , Langley , & Fisher 1989 ) . For several reasons , we selected the conceptual clustering algorithm ECOBWEB this clustering task . ECOBWEB can handle both numeric and symbolic attributes and provides some other features , like the hierarchy correction to avoid ordering effects , which proved to be useful . Since we chose a clustering approach for the first step , the second step must be defined accordingly .
The second step is the selection of EICs . We compute values of the fault attributes for a selected earlier time T , , for all cars included in the first step . The resulting instances are then examined how similar they are to classes from the first step . If an instance is similar to an existing class , then we assume that this instance fits the fault profile at time T , and could thus serve as an early indicator car . If the instance is not similar to any existing class , then it cannot be an early indicator .
This second step can be reduced to a test whether the instances of time T* , can be assigned to existing classes of the hierarchy , For this test , ECOBWEB was slightly modified . ECOBWEB is an incremental hill climbing system . Each instance is presented incrementally and ECOBWEB tries to incorporate this instance . In the simplest case , the instance can be added to an existing class . The description of the class will then be adapted but the structure of the hierarchy remains unchanged . Other operators change the structure of the hierarchy by splitting classes , merging classes , or adding a new class . All of these operators are tentatively applied , their result is evaluated , and the best operator is permanently executed . We changed ECOBWEB such that the operators are the structure evaluated but not executed . If one of changing operators wins , then the instance does not fit into the existing hierarchy . In other words , it does not fit into the fault profile of time T , . If the structure preserving operator wins , then the instance fits and is considered to be an early indicator car .
Using this test , we selected a sub population of cars that are considered as early indicator cars . If we were only interested in the present production period we could simply take this set for future prediction tasks . Since we are really interested in identifying early indicator cars for future production periods , we need to characterize the early indicator cars independent of the production period . This characterization could then be used to identify the set of EICs for each subsequent production period .
,’ ‘ ,
,‘,‘I
Therefore , in the third step we try to discriminate EICs and NonEICs using attributes that can be easily observed at production time or shortly after . We selected attributes which described the configuration of the car ( eg , engine type , transmission type , special equipment ) , the sales area , and the average mileage , which can be easily calculated from the information collected at the first maintenance visit to the garage .
This task can be mapped to a standard classification task with two classes , EIC and NonEIC.’ Both classes are described using the configuration attributes and the average mileage per day . The latter attribute is computed from the mileage that is observed at the first maintenance in the garage . The resulting instances were then assigned to two classes according to the result of the second step . Finally , we employed two standard rule learning programs , CN2 ( Clark & Niblett 1988 ) and C4.5 ( Quinlan 1993 ) , to learn descriptions for these two classes .
These descriptions are independent of the fault profile and a particular production period . The identification procedure for EICs for a production period now is simply to select all cars from this period which fit the description .
Experimental Results In this section , we present results of our experiments . Numbers in diagrams have been modified because the actual numbers are confidential . The interpretation of the diagrams remains valid .
For our experiments , we chose a learning production period of three months in 1991 . The times T , and T , were set to 12 and 6 months , respectively . Faults were restricted to faults in the injection system . In cooperation with domain experts we selected 8 attributes which are relevant for the fault profile . Among others , these attributes described average mileage between two faults , average time between two faults , total number of faults in the period , and costs per faults . For each car produced in the learning production period , values for these attributes were computed for life times T , and T , . There were 2628 cars considered .
First , ECOBWEB was used to cluster the resulting instances and to construct a class hierarchy based on the attribute values for T , . Then , attribute values at time T , were used for selection of EICs as described in the previous section . About one third of the cars ( ie , 862 cars ) were classified as EICs .
Then , we selected 28 attributes that can be easily observed early in the life time of the car . We applied both CN2 and C4.5 with different parameter settings until the learning result seemed to be reasonable . It turned out that EICs and NonEICs were not easy to separate . In retrospect , this is not surprising since the vast majority of cars had no quality problems during the first 12 months . For a large portion of these cars their assignment to one of the two classes was almost random .
3 Later , we will see that results became better after we introduced a third CIasS .
Data Mining Applications
79
Figure 3 : Evaluation results
. . ,
After this observation , we tried to bias the algornnms towards cars that actually had a quality problem . We introduced a third class containing the EICs which had at least one fault . Now , both CN2 and Cl.5 could better discriminate NonEICs from the other two classes . After some iterations with different parameter settings two rule sets were produced .
The resulting rules could be used in two ways to extract EICs . Rules for EICs could be applied directly to identify EICs or rules for NonEICs could be applied to exclude Non EICs . The latter alternative turned out to be better .
This identification procedure was applied to cars from the learning production period and three subsequent production periods . This resulted in eight sets of EICs . Each set contained about one third of the cars produced during the respective period . The goal of the experiments was to predict different fault rates , average costs per car , and a hot list of faults . The values of the EICs six months after the the production date were used to predict corresponding twelve months values of the whole set .
Figure 3 shows the results for the prediction of the fault rate ( total number of faults divided by the number of produced cars ) at the left and the average cost per car at the right , respectively . Other tests , for instance predicting fault rates for individual parts produced similar results .
CN2 EICs overestimated fault rates but picked up trends accurately . ” On costs they performed badly . The predictions of C4.5EICs were always pretty close to the actual values , both for fault rates and costs . In many cases In addition to predicting values , we also used EICs to predict hot lists of faults . It turned out that for most cases , ranking and relative frequency of individual faults were predicted accurately . In some cases , however , there were significant deviations from the predicted values . We suspect that these deviations are interesting in their own right . At least some of them may indicate unexpected developments that deserve attention by domain experts .
In summary , the results exceeded our expectations . identified
They show that EICs exist and can be
LearnInn Pedod
Pl
P2
P3 automatically . The feasibility of this approach has been provea .
Conclusions
In this paper , we presented a multi strategy approach to flexible prediction and demonstrated its feasibility . Our experiments showed that the EIC approach can be used to predict future developments . It will now be further refined and incorporated in an early warning system for quality problems .
The experiments are an example for a typical KDD process . After the identification of the prediction learning task we went through several steps of pre processing , applied various data mining the preprocessed data , and evaluated and revised the results in a post processing process . Methodological considerations helped us to structure this process and to generalise the results . techniques to stage
KDD the of
Applicability of the EIC approach Based on our experience with the EIC approach’ , we expect that its applicability and its benefits depend on the domain . Probably , EICs neither exist in all application domains nor can they address all aspects of an application problem . Nevertheless , if EICs exist , as in our quality information domain , they can be use for different purposes . transferring
EICs provide a flexible way of prediction . They are not fixed to prediction of values of just one attribute . They can predict different attributes or events , depending on the application domain . They can also predict different trends , which is very important for any decision support system . innovative approach to sampling . Analyses can be performed on EICs instead of the whole population . If the method is applied as described in this paper , then the time aspect has
Furthermore , EICs are an intelligent ,
4 In this application domain , trend prediction is sticient Specific quantitative values are not necessary .
5 Ifwe generalise the approach described in this paper , it would be more appropriate to talk about early indicator instances instead of early indicator cars . Nevertheless , we use the acronym EIC throughout this paper .
80
KDD 96 to be considered . EICs are a sample for the whole population at a later point in time . However , the approach can easily be generalised such that the EICs are selected according to different criteria . For instance , in the quality information domain it is also interesting to consider regional effects . Identify a set of regions such that the cars sold in these regions behave like the whole population of cars .
Finally , EICs can also be used for detecting deviations . If EICs are believed to be good predictors then any deviation in the prediction deserves attention of domain experts . the experimental results with
Future work Although the chosen techniques were very good , there is much room for refinement of the EIC approach . For the experiments reported here some more or less arbitrary choices were made which need to be investigated more systematically . The task refinement process made these choices and parameters explicit and provides a framework for further experiments . Further experiments will address both domain specific and methodological refinements of the EIC approach . the
The domain specific refinements concern selection of the attributes and data . For instance , the length of production period was taken to be three months . Other values , perhaps taking seasonalities into account , may lead to better results . Also , times T , and T , , were arbitrarily set to twelve and six months , respectively . Again , other values may lead to better results . These choices might even depend on fault . Furthermore , attributes describing the fault profile were highly aggregated . In subsequent experiments we will also investigate more fine grained attributes . type of
Methodological refinements address the usage of different techniques for the various tasks of the EIC approach and the extension to other application domains . For instance , in the quality information domain we are performing similar experiments with Kohonen networks ( Kohonen , 1988 ) for the clustering sub task . Additionally , we are exploring completely different methods for the representation of a fault profile . At the end , we will have a variety of combinations of techniques which realise the EIC approach . We will then apply the EIC approach to other domains . We expect that the choice of the best realisation of the EIC approach depends on both the domain and the data . Our methodological framework allows us to explore the alternatives systematically and to select the most appropriate one . thank our domain experts at MercedesAcknowledgments:We Benz for their support and access to the quality information database . Lothar K . Becker partly implemented and evaluatg our approach .
References in databases : A
( 1996 ) . Advances
Anand , T . , & Kahn , G . ( 1993 ) . Opportunity explorer : Navigating large databases using knowledge discovery templates . Proceedings of 1993 AAAI Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases , pp . 45 5 1 . Bra&man , RJ . , Bc Anand , T . ( 1994 ) . The process of knowledge discovery first sketch . Proceedings 1994 AAAI Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases , pp . 1 12 . Clark , P . , & Niblett , T . ( 1989 ) . The CN2 induction algorithm . Machine Learning 3 , pp . 261 283 . Fayyad , UM , Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , Smyth , P . , & Uthurasamy , R . in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining . Cambridge , MA : MIT Press . Fayyad , UM , Weir , N . , & Djorgovski , S . ( 1993 ) . Automated cataloging and analysis of sky survey image databases : The SKICAT system . Proc . CIKM , pp . 527536 . Frawley , WJ , Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , & Matheus , CJ ( 1992 ) . Knowledge discovery in databases : An overview . AIMagazine , Fall , pp . 57 70 . Gennari , JH , Langley , P . , & Fisher , D . ( 1989 ) . Models of incremental concept formation . Artificial Intelligence , 40 , pp . 11 61 . Kohonen , T . ( 1988 ) . Self organisation and associative memory . Berlin : Springer . Quinlan , JR ( 1993 ) . C4.5 : Programs for Machine Learning . San Mateo , CA : Morgan Kaufinann . Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , & Frawley , WJ ( eds . ) ( 1991 ) . Knowledge discovery in databases . Menlo Park , CA : AA41 Press / MIT Press . Reich , Y . ( 1994 ) . Macro and micro perspectives of multistrategy learning . in : Michalski , RS , & Tecuci , G . ( eds . ) Machine Learning : A Multi strategy Approach , Vol . IV , San Francisco , CA : Morgan Kaufmann , pp . 379 401 . Reinartz , TP , & Wirth , R . ( 1995 ) . The need for a task model in databases . in : Kodratoff , Y . , Nakhaiezadeh , G . , & Taylor , C . ( eds . ) Workshop notes Statistics , Machine Learning , and Knowledge Databases . MLNet Familiarisation Workshop , Heraklion , Crete , pp . 19 24 . Wirth , R . , k Reinartz , TP ( 1995 ) . Towards a task model for Knowledge Discovery in Databases . Internal Report , Daimler Benz Research & Technology , Ulm , Germany . for knowledge discovery
Discovery in
Data Mining Applications
81
”
