From : KDD 96 Proceedings . Copyright © 1996 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Mining Knowledge in Noisy Audio Data
Andnej CZYZEWSKI
Technical University of GdaW , Faculty of Electronics , Sound Engineering Dept .
Narutowicza 11112 ; 80 952 Gdausk , Poland . andrzej@nextelkapggdapl
Abstract
This paper demonstrates a KDD method applied to audio data analysis , particularly , it presents possibilities which result from replacing traditional methods of analysis and acoustic signal processing by KDD algorithms when restoring audio recordings at&cted by strong noise .
Introduction l~llnologlGs or cmnpurer m l , , C II CL2 a ? L L , z A_ 10 1yplGdl dppllCdUOIlS audio acoustics only rarely consider the opportunities of data processing with the use of methods which stem from KDD approach . What is essential here is the fact that methods of analysis and signal processing developed on the basis of speech acoustics have not been transferre4l respectively so far to other related areas , eg as an algorithm of intelligent analysis and processing of the musical audio signal . In the meantime the area of audio acoustics has an extensive demand for applications of intelligent signal processing .
The paper demonstrates a KDD method applied to audio data analysis , which was studied at the Sound Engineering Department of the Gdat+isk Technical University . Particularly , it presents possibilities which result from replacing traditional methods of analysis and acoustic signal processing by KDD algorithms when restoring audio recordings aRcted by strong noise .
Previously , the parallel algorithm applied to the removal of clicks has been tested ( Czyzewski 1994 , 1995a ) and the rough set method applied to noise suppression in old audio recordings was tried ( Czyzewski 1995b ) . A new concept of perceptual coding allowing for noise reduction in old musical recordings stemmed from a modification of KDD applications investieated nreviouslv bv the author K’zvzewski 199 % . , 1995c ) . Perceptual coding provides the way of processing audio signal in such a way that the portions of signal which are perceptible to human hearing sense are to be encoded while the remaining portions of signal or noise are to be rejected . The algorithm processes signal in subbands of the frequency scale corresponding p r . , ,
,d + , _ .
220
KDD 96 to the critical bands of hearing . The rough set method was employed to building the knowledge base of signal and distortions in such a way that it becomes possible to automatically control the masking threshold in order to maintain the noise affecting audio signals not audible to listeners , Details of the elaborated and tested algorithms will be presented and results of their application discussed . Some general conclusions concerning knowledge acquisition of audio signal affected by noise and distortions will be added . Potential telecommunications and multimedia appiications wiii be quoted .
Rough set approach to mining signal and noise data
The idea of using KDD approach to the removal of continuous noise from old recordings uses the perceptual coding scheme enhanced by the intelligent decision algorithm based on the rough set method . The rule set used for the determination of thresholds for the selection of eligible components of the signal is obtained by learning from examples . Hence , the data mining process allows one to discern between signal and noise portions of the audio material . Consequently , the masking threshold level can be determined for each data frame allowing one to make the noise inaudible after the execution of the perceptual coding procedure . Before the details of the elaborated algorithm are presented a brief introduction to the domains of rough sets and of perceptual coding of audio data will be provided .
Basic concepts of the rough set theory
The Boolean traditional logic , which is employed by computers for general use , stems from clhntofs formulation of the definition of a set and operations on sets . However , as numerous examples prove , computers which work on this basis , are not good enough to solve many practical problems which require automatic inference , especially in situations when the data being analyzed carry a certain inaccuracy or irreproducibility and when there is no possibility to create a precise enough model of the decisive process . In such cases , overcoming the axioms of Cantor ’s definition of sets may turn out to be of purpose and very useN . This situation obviously corresponds to the problems of discerning between signal and noise components in noisy audio patterns . Overcoming iimitations related to Cantor ’s definition of the set is possible by : Pi, , leh “ :ram,+ +l.n+ CL “ a* l,ewan;a kna +rr Ipjllvllllg U&F IGqyuu~,,~cur LuaL LUG ret . lAlulLualI~~ IUIVC L ” be strictly defined , that is of a set which is precisely defined by its elements . By doing so it is possible to define the set based on lower and upper approximations . Such a set , since it is not defined fully , may include elements which belong to it mauy times . the its
JJppr
Apprownahon / problems which require an intelligent data analysis , searching for hidden relationships between the data and even making the right decisions in situations when incomplete and partially contrary antecedents exist .
The fundamentals of this theory were announced by Pawlak in the early 1980 ’s ( pawlak , 1982 ) . The theory was quickly adopted by the scientific world and is now one of the fast developing methods of artificial
;~+dl ; “ c.~M ulK.uqj~~~ mn .lnl , ( rawmn ,
1aa1\ r=lJ , .
I%* 111v mn;n lua.ul
+wasno LQIILW
.*1ntLarl Inatbu
+rr L ” defining a rough set are illustrated schematically in Fig 1 . More detailed definitions of these terms can be found in the literature ( Slowinski ed . , 1992 ) .
The knowledge is represented in a system based on rough sets in a tabular form composed of the following elements : a finite set of objects , P is a finite set of attributes , D is a special decisive attribute determined by the expert , P is a collection of all conditional attributes in P , vo , represents the area of decisive attributes , F is called the knowledge function .
An inductive learning system based on rough set .~ a consists of the iearning component for the automauc rule derivation from training samples and of the inference system used for decision making at the recognition stage . Rules are expressions in the following format : if <conditionl>n2~ . then <decision> .
. and~ndition d gouudary Region
\ Lower ADDrOxdtiOn
Conditions are based on attributes . Attributes should be equal to concrete values or should belong to certain ranges . The decision always use a single rule matching approach .
The knowledge base in rough set method can be conveniently represented in the form of a decision table , in which rows represent ob&cts and c0imns represent attributes . In the last column decision attributes are collected . The main task for the learning phase ( rule generation procedure ) is to find the minimum number of maximum composed sets that cover the so called positive region J%%s ) providing one of the basic notions of the rough set theory @‘awl& 1982 ) . Consequently , two types of rules are to be derived from the &.4cinn An UIV UVIIY* “ II . Y . important parameter of possible rules , reflecting quality of them is the rough measure k&s defined as follows : nrbc nnccihlp SWVY s4AI.s yv ” LuY’ ” t hlw WVIV . W. L ndec *UIIY . rclrtcain md pm=IXnYI 1’1
!U where : X is the concept and Y is the set of all examples described by the rule .
Spatial , Text , & Multimedia
221
SPACE AS
UNIVERSE U APPROXIMATION LOWERANDUPPERAPROXRdATIONS LA&UP ROUGH SET Bt DEPENDENCIES .luuJULT CORE C
Ii
IRS & D
Fig 1 . Illustration of elementary notions related to the rough set theory .
Overcoming the traditional axioms applied in the case of rough sets causes the logic based on the rough set theory to acquire completely new features which make it an extremely useful tool for solving many
An additional parameter was proposed by the author one to optimize the rule generation process . doting This parameter was called the rule strength r and is defined as follows : where : c number of cases conforming the rule , n p the neutral point of the rough measure .
The neutral point of the rough measure ‘fl provides one of some parameters of the rule generation system to be set by its operator . This parameter allows one to regulate the influence of possible ( uncertain ) rules on the process of decision making . More details concerning the rough set concepts are to be found in the rich literature ( Slowidski ed . , 1992 ; Wojcik , 1993 ) .
Perceptual coding algorithm
Empirical data reveal that some signals are inaudible in the presence of others both in time and in frequency domain . The level of the barely audible pure tone depends on the ditference of frequencies of the signal components and the masking tone , and on the excitation level of the masker . Usually , this dependence is presented as the function of frequency in a linear scale or in a logarithmic scale ( Zwicker&Zwicker 1991 ) . It can be observed that the shape varies “ : :Cn,.nCLr F ,x ” 4 , . &v,m A % % ” T rL . 3lpulclaluy &uJluullj LO ncqllcmby bmlllt;E;~ . u1 WIE ; literature , some attempts to calculate that shape can be found ( Krohkowski , 1996 ) .
Another well proven phenomenon is the fact that human auditory system analyses spectrum ranges which correspond to subbands , called critical bands . The stimuli frequencies within a critical band are perceived similarly and processed independently from those of other critical bands . Because of the need to use the critical bands scale , the Bark unit for this was defined , which is of the width of one critical band . It can be observed that Bark to Hertz dependence can be approximated by the straight line : up to the 8th Bark in the linear frequency scale and from the 8th Bark in the logarithmic one . The above property was taken into account when converting to Bark units in the eiaborated algorithm . Moreover , it turns out that masking curves assume almost an uniform shape when calculated versus Bark units . One can notice that the slopes of the curves at the lower frequencies are constant , whereas at the higher ones , the slope depends on the excitation level of the masker .
222
KDD 96 ncrr~md ie 10 UOY~IIYU
Basing on the above indications , the elaborated perceptual algorithm for the encoder performs the __ folIowing operations :
Step 1 . On the basis of the sampling frequency , values of frequencies for consecutive spectral lines are computed . Next , they are converted to Bark units .
1 trmnrnmi~~ ss w*n,p ” “ ~oY
Step 2 . The continuous series of 16 bit samples are grouped into blocks of the length of 512 samples . This &.P hinh 1LL611 “ Ispectral resolution ( long blocks ) and time resolution requirements ( short blocks ) . Since at the borders of blocks some audible distortions may occur , so called ‘block effects’ , thus overlapping technique with the length of the fold equals to 32 was applied . Step 3 . Because of the Digital Fourier Transform properties , blocks containing samples are windowed before the processing is made . Rectangular cosine shaped window was used calculated according to the following formula : lustw~c.n uwL,,YvII lm LN tn L ” data sin( : e G , ‘ ) d&u(i ) = data ,
A u datacos($ $ ) , i e(O,L 1 ) i E(L,N L 1 ) i E(N &N l )
( 3 )
I where : L the size of the fold , N the length of the block . Step 4 . The FFT procedure is executed . Amplitudes and phases of spectral lines are calculated using complex representations . Since these values are symmetrical , only half of them is further processed . The remaining part is restored in the decoder .
Step 5 . The amplitudes of spectral lines are sorted according to decreasing values of amplitude .
Step 6 . Simultaneous masking procedure is executed . Spectral lines with amplitude value remaining below the masking threshold are discarded . Masking curves are represented by uniform curves . For the practical use , shapes of these curves are approximated hv ctraioht “ J YUa~ frequencies is set to 27 dB/Bark , whereas at the higher ones , the slope S ( with minus sign ) is expressed as :
Thp clone L1.W Ya ” p nf the “ a UX ” lin~c IWY lnw~r 1 ” ll line 11 w thP ua ” at u .
S =22 0.2 I [ dB/Bark ]
( 4 ) where : I denotes the ievei of the masker . For each non masked spectral line , there is a mask level computed , ie the excitation value of barely audible tone of the respective frequency . Step 7 . Within every critical band for each spectral line , the minimum mask level is chosen . This approach ensures that after the quantization of non masked components , the quantization noise is maintained below the audible level .
Step 8 . Subjective level of noise is estimated by a human listener . If its value is below the mask level in every critical band no further actions are performed . If not , new masking thresholds are established to shift the noise below the masking level in each particular subband . This procedure is conceived as a flexible one in order to not to diminish nor to neglect eligible components within the band .
Step 9 . After the perceptual processing , every spectml component is quantized or set to 0 ( if masked ) . It would be redundant to encode masked vahles : ml& only these components with non zero magnitudes are processed . However , there is a need to know , for which frequencies spectml lines were neglected if they were . Therefore , an additional piece of information is sent , which defines whether consecutive complex components are transmitted or not . And thus , every package of data is preceded by 256 one bit flags . If the flag is set to 0 at the kth position , it means that the magnitude and phase for the kth spectml component is not processed ( the masking occurred ) . On the other hand if the kth value is set to 1 , it denotes that the package includes the kth complex component . utili= all 16 bit representation whereas the value can match only a part of it . Thus , it can be assumed that the number of bits used to encode these values is constant in a critical band within the time duration of several frames . In a case , when the word length changes , one needs to send only a new value for appropriate subband . Consequently , the data package is preceded by a number of one bit flags . When the kth flag is set to 0 , it means that the number of bits used to encode spectml components in the kth critical band did not change . When the flag is equal to 1 , it denotes that a new number for these bits will be transmitted for the kth band . The number of one bit flags is equal to the number of critical bands determined by the given nnms1:n & a , 341qJlll1~ UGquGll~y .
During the masking procedure , it is evahrated the permissible noise level in each critical baud . The level is used for the quantimtion and should be known to restore sound correctly . Thus , there is a need to store values of the levels for every subband . Fortunately , it turns out that it is essential to precede the audio package by a number of flags informing whether the noise level in consecutive criticai bands changed . If so , a new 16bit value of the level for appropriate band is transmitted . As previously , the number of the one bit flags refer to the number of utilized critical bands .
Consequently , each SlZsample frame is stored in the format as follows :
256 of one bit flags of non masked spectral lines , up to 25 of one bit flags . They describe the change of the word length engaged to encode complex components in a critical band , up to 25 of one bit flags . They concern the change of permissible noise level in a critical band , up to 25 of 4 bit values of a new value of word length used to encode spectral components in a critical band ,
16 bit values of a new permissible noise level in a critical band ,
r vdaes of amnlitudes and nhasen of non masked spectral lines . The value of phases can be encoded using 5 bits , what is recommended in the literature . Consequently , amplitude and phase of the constant complex component is encoded . r
The decoder uses the above data for the additive synthesis of sound on the basis of spectral components which have been qualified as non masked ones .
Previously , the
Knoyledge acquisition of signal and of noise rough set approach to the determination of spectral components obtained in the McAulay Quatieri analysis was tried by the author ( Czyzewski 1995b , 1995c ) . Similar KDD procedure to the one elaborated previously was exploited in the current experiments to derive rules allowing to automatically select the optimal level of the masking threshold in the perceptual codingffiltration procedure . The masking threshold influencing the selection of spectral components in the encoder should be updated frame by frame basing on the rule set . This rule set is to be acquired on the basis of examples processed during the learning phase . Correspondingly , three classes are to be defined : threshold low ( too low ) , threshold medium or balanced ( right ) and threshold high ( too high ) . The expressions in brackets correspond to subjective assessment of the effect of filtration . When the threshold is too low , then the noise is clearly audible . When the threshold is too high , many eligible components are removed , so the resulting sound is clean but poor and distorted . Balanced threshold allows one to remove noise without discarding eligible signal components . As results from above indications , threshold values need to be quantized . The quantization consists in replacing real values of masking range representations which are utilized as decision attributes ( Slowinski ed . , 1992 ) . Practically , the uuiform . . . . . . r r ^ ,, ,I L r,A ,.^ L .a73 I ” rC yuat1uuuw1 wala GlupluyGu UiibGu Ull u up 1illl~CS Ul magnitude of threshold . threshold by
Practically , the learuing procedure consists in selecting some short fragments of the recording , automatically setting various threshold levels and assessing the effect subjectively when playing back those fragments after the resynthesis . Correspondingly , the
Spatial , Text , Q Multimedia
223 of the fragments characteristic each sample fragment is to be represented by a set of threshold values in each critical band and the decision comes from the human expert . That is the way the knowledge base is built withregard to expert subjective assessm&ts of individual examples . Normally , it is suBicient to choose some examples corresponding to the most recording . Typically , up to 5 percent of the whole material should be chosen and assessed on the basis of 2 to 3 seconds portions . This produces a stream of exemplary data to be added to the relevant classes labeled as “ low ” , “ right ” and too “ high ” . Consequently , the knowledge base is build up to be applicable to the selected fragments to the rest of the whole recording ( certainly ) and ( possibly ) . The generalization capabilities of KDD algorithms the rough set belongs to proved to work well also with the new patterns representing the material not employed rule base represents knowledge the algorithm . Thfi rule set may contain rules of the following form : to the %aining . The acquired training during the of where : W , ) = V*J*,J*,~
( 5 ) in the frequency band No . k the threshold value is to be set to i EC l,2,,16 > . , denotes level
I is , that the quantized k E< 1,2,,24 >
Then , the magnitude of the threshold set in kth critical band is as follows :
4 = 61 , .
[ m ]
( 6 ) through
The exemplary rules presented above are to be determined automatically the learning from fragments of the recording , packet after packet . As each packet represents the result of FFI’ tran&orm of 512 samples , thus for each 1s portion of audio sampled with the frequency 22.05 kHz as much as 22.050/512 z 43 rules may be generated . table
Thus , typical containing initially after is constructed learning procedure employing 10 or 15 s of exemplary audio material the decision several hundreds of rules . Usually , such a data collection is superfluous . This feature the fact that musical tones duration usually exceeds single packet length . Consequently , many rules and attributes W , ) are discarded after the rough set based reduction of the table and the resulting knowledge obtained decision base the compacted . Subsequently , is automatically results from
224
KDD 96 acquired rule base is used for the automatic setting thresholds for all subbands and all consecutive packets of the whole recording . For the concrete combination of input data many rules are firing , some of them certain ( rough measure equal to 1 ) and some uncertain ( rough measure lower than 1 ) see eq . 1 . According to the rough set method principles , the decision always comes from the single firing rule being the strongest one see thresholds eq . 2 . Consequently , the specuum filtering are to be updated according rules . the current packet is processed using Subsequently , threshold rule values update conditional attributes . Results of processing noisy recordings with this method are presented in the next paragraph . to the winning controlled the by
Results experiments .
Music affected by strong noise was used for the analysis resynthesis described algorithm with the “ intelligent ” threshold update was applied among others to an exemplary fragment of the song performed by Edith Piaf taken from a very noisy record .
The
After the perceptual filtration is executed , which is supported by the rough set based control of masking threshold , the rectified signal was obtained revealing enhanced subjective quality . Results of analyses of music material made before and after the processing are presented in Fig 2 . As is seen from Fig 2a , spectral analysis of the musical fragment reveals that signal components are accompanied by very strong noise . The noise is broadband ( so called hiss ) and its components are strong within the whole range of frequency ( up to l/2 sampling freq which was equal to 22.05 kHz ) .
Fig 2b presents spectral analysis of the fragment restored with the perceptual coding algorithm with not properly selected masking thresholds some eligible signal components are weakened while the higher components of hiss remain still beyond the masking signal threshold . Fig 2c presents restoration with algorithm eight controlled by from characteristic portions of the whole recording ( time duration of each portion : 2 to 3 s ) . the the perceptual result of coding set derived rule the
Conclusions
KDD algorithms should find their way to more audio applications . The previously conducted experiments related to neural network implementation to the removal of impulse distortions ( Czyzewski 1994 , 1995a ) and the presented the restoration of noisy audio recordings may support this opinion . There are many potential applications of application exemplary related to intelligent algorithms applied to the removal of noise and distortions . Some of them might be used in telecommunications and digital broadcasting , in databases and multimedia related systems as data reduction and noise suppression techniques .
Acknowledgment
The presented research project was sponsored by the Committee for ScientiIic Research , Warsaw , Poland . Grant No . 8 TllD 002 08 .
References
1 . Czyzewski A 1994 , Artificial IntelligencsBased Processing of Old Audio Recordings . In Preprint of 97th Audio Engineering Society Convention . San Francisco ( Preprint No . 3885 ) .
3.9
4.4
53 Time ( seconds )
I.9
4A
$3 Time koadrl
6R
7J
9 )
1.9
II
7J
81
93 a
,I
22
I .
I .
,I
22 m
6664 urn . ml .
1
9 .
.I
I.99
2.w
136
4s
534 cm96
7.92
834
93
The ( reconds )
Fig 2 Results of perceptual filtering of sound with the use of the rule base . 1 . t 1 , e L e . AZ ____ AZ ,me r A a./ ungmm uagmem or au auaro recorurng dutxieu by strong noise , b./ The same fragment restored with the use of insufliciently trainal algorithm , c./ Fragment as in Fig ( a ) processed employing the final version of the rule set .
A
2 . Cmki
1995a . Some Methods For Detection And Interpolation Of Impulsive Distortions In # %,A *A: n A^^ AZ , T , lx. , , mnm ACLlD ~l,,Lol , vvumm~vt , UIU on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics . Mohonk Mountain , NY , USA m TIVC ; . l~oo ntxiwuuqp . tusuw
~wm
3 . Cqzewski A . 1995b . Managing Noisy Data in the AI based Processing of Old Audio Recordings . In Proceedings of International Symposium on Intelligent Data Analysis . Baden Baden , 17 19 August , 1995 .
4 . Czyzemki A 1995c . New Learning Algorithms for the Processing of Old Audio Recordings . In Preprint I ,a or 99th Audio Engineering Society Convenuon . New York ( Preprint No . 4078 ) .
5 . Pawlak Z . ( 1982 ) . Rough sets . Journal of
Computer and Information Science , ~01.11 , No5
6 . Pawlak Z . ( 1993 ) . Rough Sets Present State and the Future . Foundations of Computing and Decision Sciences , vol . 18 , No3 4
7 . Slowinski R , ed . 1992 . Intelligent Decision Suppo~ . balk of the Rough Sets Theory . Kluwer Academic Publisher , Dordrecht/Bostonln . on ~piica~oiis Ed evens
8 . Wojcik ZM 1993 . Rough Sets for Intelligent Image Filtering , In Proc . of Rough Sets and Knowledge Discovery Workshop ( RSKD ) , Ban& Canada .
9 . Zwicker E . , Zwicker U . 1991 . Audio Engineering and Psychoacoustics : Matching Signals to the Final Receiver , the Human Auditory System , J . Audio Eng . . _^C . Sot . , voi . 39 ( pp . I 13 126 ) .
10 . Krolikowski R 1996 . Noise reduction in old musical recordings using the perceptual coding of audio . Forthcoming .
Suatial . Text . Q Multimedia
22s
