From : KDD 96 Proceedings . Copyright © 1996 , AAAI ( wwwaaaiorg ) All rights reserved .
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining :
Towards a Unifying Framework
Fayyad
Usama Microsoft Research One Microsoft Way
Redmond , WA 98052 , USA fayyad@microsoft.com
Gregory
Piatetsky Shapiro
GTE Laboratories , MS 44 Waltham , MA 02154 , USA gps@gte.com
Padhraic
Smyth
Information and Computer Science
University of California , Irvine
CA 92717 3425 , USA smythQicsuciedu
Abstract
This paper presents a first step towards a unifying framework for Knowledge Discovery in Databases . We describe finks between data milfing , knowledge discovery , and other related fields . We then define the KDD process and basic data mining algorithms , discuss application issues and conclude with an analysis of challenges facing practitioners in the field .
1 Introduction
Across a wide variety of fields , data are being collected and accumulated at a dramatic pace . There is an urgent need for a new generation of computational techniques and tools to assist humans in extracting useful information ( knowledge ) from the rapidly growing volumes of data , These techniques and tools are the subject of the emerging field of knowledge discovery in databases ( KDD ) . This paper is an initial step towards a common framework that we hope will allow in this multius to understand the variety of activities disciplinary together . We view the knowledge discovery process as a set of various activities for making sense of data . At the core of this process is the application of data mining methods for pattern t discovery . We examine how data mining is used and outline some of its methods . Finally , we look at practical issues of KDD and enumerate challenges for future research and development . field and how they fit application
2 KDD , Data Mining , other and Relation to
Fields the notion of finding useful patterns
Historically in data has been given a variety of names including data mining , knowledge extraction , information discovery , data archaeology , and data information harvesting , pattern processing . The term data mining has been mostly used by statisticians , data analysts , and the
~Throughout this paper we use the term "pattern" designate pattern or model extracted from the data . to
82
I<DD 96 management information systems ( MIS ) communities . It has also gained popularity in the database field . the first KDD workThe term KDD was coined at shop in 1989 ( Piatetsky Shapiro 199t ) to emphasize that "knowledge" is the end product of a data driven discovery . It has been popularized in artificial intelligence and machine learning . between the KDD from data . The distinction
In our view KDD refers to the overall process of discovering useful knowledge from data while data mining refers to a particular step in this process . Data mining is the application of specific algorithms for extracting patterns process and the data mining step ( within the process ) is a central point of this paper . The additional steps in the KDD process , such as data preparation , data selection , data cleaning , incorporating appropriate prior knowledge , and proper interpretation of the results of mining , are essential to ensure that useful knowledge is derived from the data . Blind application of data minas "data dredging" in ing methods ( rightly criticised the statistical can be a dangerous activity easily leading to discovery of meaningless patterns . literature ) artificial
KDD has evolved , and continues to evolve , from the intersection of research fields such as machine learning , pattern recognition , databases , statistics , intelligence , knowledge acquisition for expert systems , data visualization , and high performance computing . The unifying goal is extracting high level knowledge from low level data in the context of large data sets . KDD overlaps with machine learning and pattern recognition in the study of particular data mining theories and algorithms : means for modeling data and extracting patterns . KDD focuses on aspects of finding understandable patterns that can be interpreted as useful or interesting knowledge , and puts a strong emphasis on working with large sets of real world data . Thus , scaling properties of algorithms to large data sets are of fundamental interest .
KDD also has much in common with statistics , parexploratory data analysis methods . The sta ticularly tistical approach offers precise methods for quantifying the inherent uncertainty which results when one tries to infer general patterns from a particular sample of an overall population . KDD software systems often embed particular statistical procedures for sampling and modeling data , evaluating hypotheses , and handling noise within an overall knowledge discovery framework . In contrast to traditional approaches in statistics , KDD approaches typically employ more search in model extraction and operate in the context of larger data sets with richer data structures .
In addition to its strong relation to the database
( the 2nd ’D’ in KDD ) , another related area field data warehousing , which refers to the popular business trend for collecting and cleaning transactional data to make them available for on line analysis and decision support . A popular approach for analysis of data warehouses has been called OLAP ( on line analytical processing ) , after a set of principles proposed by Codd ( 1993 ) . OLAP tools focus on providing multidimensional data analysis , which is superior to SQL in computing summaries and breakdowns along many dimensions . OLAP tools are targeted towards simplifying and supporting interactive data analysis , while the KDD tool ’s goal is to automate as much of the process as possible .
3 Basic Definitions
We define KDD ( Fayyad , Piatetsky Shapiro , 1996 ) as
& Smyth
Knowledge Discovery in Databases the nontrivial process oi" identifying valid , novel , potentially useful , and ultimately understandable patterns in data . is
Here data is a set of facts ( eg , cases in a database ) and pattern is an expression in some language describing a subset of the data or a model applicable to that subset . Hence , in our usage here , extracting a pattern also designates fitting a model to data , finding structure from data , or in general any high level description of a set of data . The term process implies that KDD is comprised of many steps , which involve data preparation , search for patterns , knowledge evaluation , and refinement , all repeated in multiple iterations . By non trivial we mean that some search or inference is init is not a straightforward computation of volved , ie like computing the average value predefined quantities of a set of numbers . The discovered patterns should be valid on new data with some degree of certainty . We also want patterns to be novel ( at least to the system , and preferably to the user ) and potentially useful , ie , lead to some benefit to the user/task . Finally , the patterns should be understandable , if not immediately then after some post processing .
The above implies that we can define quantitative
In many measures for evaluating extracted patterns . cases , it is possible to define measures of certainty ( eg , estimated prediction accuracy on new data ) or utility ( eg gain , perhaps in dollars saved due to better predictions or speed up in response time of a system ) . Notions such as novelty and understandability are much more subjective . In certain contexts understandability can be estimated by simplicity ( eg , the number of bits to describe a pattern ) . An important notion , called interestingness ( eg see Piatetsky Shapiro ~ Matheus 1994 , Silberschatz & Tuzhilin 1995 ) , is usually taken as an overall measure of pattern value , combining validity , novelty , usefulness , and simplicity . Interestingness functions can be explicitly defined or can be manifested implicitly via an ordering placed by the KDD system on the discovered patterns or models .
Data Mining is a step in the KDD process consisting of applying data analysis and discovery algorithms that , under acceptable computational efficiency limitations , enumeration of patterns over the data ( see Section 5 for more details ) . produce a particular
Note that the space of patterns is often infinite , and the enumeration of patterns involves some form of search in this space . Practical computational constraints place severe limits on the subspace that can be explored by a data mining algorithm .
KDD Process is the process of using the database along with any required selection , preprocessing , to apply subsampling , and transformations data mining methods ( algorithms ) to enumerate patterns from it ; and to evaluate the products of data mnining to identify the subset of the enumerated patterns deemed "knowledge" . of it ;
The data mining component of the KDD process is concerned with the algorithmic means by which patterns are extracted and enumerated from data . The overall KDD process ( Figure 1 ) includes the evaluation and possible interpretation of the "mined" patterns to determine which patterns may be considered new "knowledge." The KDD process also includes all of the additional steps described in Section 4 . The notion of an overall user driven process is not unique to KDD : analogous proposals have been put forward in statistics ( Hand 1994 ) and in machine learning ( Brodley and Smyth 1996 ) .
4 The KDD Process
The KDD process is interactive and iterative , involving numerous steps with many decisions being made by
Data Mining General Overview
83 pa0ms
I Preprocessed | I !
Data
Data
TransformedS = .~ ~ .
I I I i
~~ ,A .
7,~ Target Data
I !
Figure l : An overview of tile steps comprising tile KDD process . the user . Brachman & Anand ( 1996 ) give a practical view of tile KDD process emphasizing tile interactive nature of the process . Here we broadly outline some of its basic steps :
1 . Developing an understanding of the application domain and the relevant prior knowledge , and identifying the goal of the KDD process from the customer ’s viewpoint .
2 . Creating a target data set : selecting a data set , or focusing on a subset of variables or data samples , on which discovery is to be performed .
3 . Data cleaning and preprocessing : basic operations such as the removal of noise if appropriate , collecting the necessary information to model or account for noise , deciding on strategies for handling missing data fields , accounting for time sequence information and known changes .
4 . Data reduction and projection : finding usefid features to represent tile data depending on tile goal of tile task . Using dimensionality reduction or transformation methods to reduce tile effective number of variables under consideration or to find invariant representations for the data .
5 . Matching tile goals of tile KDD process ( step 1 ) to particular data mining method : eg , summarization , regression , clustering , etc . Methods classification , are described in Section 5.1 , and in more detail in ( Fayyad , Piatetsky Shapiro , & : Smyth 1996 ) .
6 . Choosing the data mining algorithm(s ) : selecting method(s ) to be used for searching for patterns the data . This includes deciding which models and parameters may be appropriate ( eg models for categorical data are different than models on vectors over the reals ) and matching a particular data mining method with the overall criteria of the KDD proin cess ( eg , the end user may be more interested
84
KDD 96 understanding the model than its predictive capabilities see Section 52 )
7 . Data mining : searching for patterns of interest in a particular representational form or a set of such representations : classification rules or trees , regression , clustering , and so forth . The user can significantly aid the data mining method by correctly performing the preceding steps . to 8 . Interpreting mined patterns , any of steps 1 7 for further iteration . This step can also involve visualization of the extracted patterns/models , or visualization of the data given the extracted models . possibly return
9 . Consolidating discovered knowledge : incorporating this knowledge into another system for filrther action , or simply documenting it and reporting it to interested parties . This also includes checking for and resolving potential conflicts with l)reviously believed ( or extracted ) know}edge .
Tile KDD process can involve significant iteration and may contain loops between any two steps . Tile basic flow of steps ( although not the potential multitude of iterations and loops ) is illustrated in Figure 1 . Most previous work on KDD has focused on step 7 the data mining . Ilowever , the other steps are ~ important for the successfid application of KDD in practice .
IIaving defined the basic notions and introduced the KDD process , we now focus on the data mining component , which has by far received the most attention in the literature .
5 The Data Mining
Step of the KDD
Process
The data mining component of the KDD process often involves repeated iterative al)plication of particular data mining methods . The objective of this section is to present a very brief overview of the primary goals of data mining , a description of the methods used to address these goals , and a very brief overview of data mining algorithms which incorporate these methods . The knowledge discovery goals are defined by the intended use of the system . We can distinguish two types of goals : Verification , where the system is limited to verifying the user ’s hypothesis , and Discovery , where the system autonomously finds new patthe Discovery goal into terns . We further subdivide Prediction , where the system finds patterns for the purpose of predicting the future behaviour of some entities ; and Description , where the system finds patterns for the purpose of presenting them to a user in a human understandable form . In this paper we are primarily concerned with discovery oriented data mining . classification ,
Most data mining methods are based on tried techniques from machine learning , pattern and tested recognition , and statistics : clustering , regression , and so forth . The array of different algorithms under each of these headings can often be quite bewildering to both the novice and experienced data analyst . It should be emphasized that of the very many data mining methods advertised in the literature , there are really only a few fundamental techniques . The actual underlying model representation being used by a particular method ( ie , the functional form of f in the mapping ~ ~ f(x ) ) usually comes from a composition of a small number of well known options : polynomials , splines , kernel and basis functions , threshold/Boolean functions , etc . Thus , algorithms tend to differ primarily in goodness of fit criterion used to evaluate model fit , or in the search method used to find a good fit .
Data Mining Methods
5.1 and deAlthough the boundaries between prediction scription are not sharp ( some of the predictive models can be descriptive , to the degree that they are understandable , and vice versa ) , the distinction is useful for understanding the overall discovery goal . The relative importance of prediction and description for particular data mining applications can vary considerably . However , in the context of KDD , description tends to be more important than prediction . This is in contrast to many machine learning and pattern recognition applications where prediction is often the primary goal . The goals of prediction and description are achieved via the following primary data mining methods .
Classification : learning a function that maps ( clasa data item into one of several predefined sifies ) classes .
Regression : learning a function which maps a data item to a real valued prediction variable and the dis
Clustering : covery of functional relationships between variables . identifying a finite set of categories or clusters to describe the data . Closely related to clustering is the method of probability density estimation which consists of techniques for estimating from data the joint multi variate probability density function of all of the variables/fields in the database .
Summarization : finding a compact description for a subset of data , eg , the derivation of summary or association rules and the use of multivariate visualization techniques .
Dependency Modeling : scribes significant ( eg , learning of belief networks ) . Change and Deviation Detection : finding a model which dedependencies between variables discovering the most significant viously measured or normative values changes in the data from pre
5.2
The Components Algorithms of Data Mining
Having outlined the general methods of data mining , the next step is to construct specific algorithms to implement these methods . One can identify three primary components in any data mining algorithm : model representation , model evaluation , and search . This reductionist view is not necessarily complete or fully encompassing : rather , it is a convenient way to express the key concepts of data mining algorithms in a relatively unified and compact manner (Cheeseman 1990 ) outlines a similar structure . then no amount of training the language used to deModel Representation : scribe discoverable patterns . If the representation is too limited , time or examples will produce an accurate model for the data . It is important that a data analyst fully comprehend the representational assumptions which may be inherent in a particular method . It is equally important that an algorithm designer clearly state which representational assumptions are being made by a algorithm . Note that more powerful repparticular resentational power for models increases the danger of overfitting the training data resulting in reduced prediction accuracy on unseen data . quantitative statefunctions" ) of how well a particular
Model Evaluation Criteria : ments ( or "fit pattern ( a model and its parameters ) meet the goals of the KDD process . For example , predictive models are often judged by the empirical prediction accuracy on some test set . Descriptive models can be evaluated along the dimensions of predictive accuracy , novelty , utility , and understandability of the fitted model .
Data Mining General Overview
85
Search Method : consists of two components : parameter search and model search . Once the model representation ( or family of representations ) and the model evaluation criteria are fixed , then the data mining problem has been reduced to purely an optimization task : find the parameters/models from tile selected family which optimize tile evaluation criteria . In parameter search the algorithm must search for the parameters which optimize the model evaluation criteria given observed data and a fixed model representation . Model seamh occurs as a loop over the parameter search method : the model representation is changed so that a family of models are considered .
Data Mining Algorithms
5.3 There exist a wide variety of data mining algorithms . For a brief review of the most popular of these see ( Fayyad , Piatetsky Shapiro , 8z Smyth 1996 ) and the references therein . Popular model representations include decision trees and rules , nonlinear regression and classification , example based methods ( including nearest neighbour and case based reasoning methods ) , probabilistic graphical dependency models ( including Bayesian networks ) , and relational learning models ( including inductive logic programming ) .
An important point is that each technique typically than others . For example , suits some problems better decision tree classifiers can be very useful for finding structure in high dimensional spaces and are also useful in problems with mixed continuous and categorical data ( since tree methods do not require distance metrics ) . However , classification trees may not be suitable for problems where the true decision boundaries between classes are described by a 2nd order polynomial ( for example ) . Thus , there is no ’universal’ data mining method and choosing a particular algorithm for a particular application is something of an art . In practice , a large portion of the applications effort can go into properly formulating the problem ( asking the right question ) rather than in optimizing the algorithmic details of a particular data mining method ( Hand 1994 ; Langley and Simon 1995 ) .
6 Application
Issues
For a survey of applications of KDD as well as detailed examples , see ( Piatetsky Shapiro et al 1996 ) for industrial applications and ( Fayyad , Haussler , & Stolorz 1996 ) for applications in science data analysis . Itere , we examine criteria for selecting potential applications , which can be divided into practical and technical categories . The practical criteria for KDD projects are similar to those for other applications of advanced technology , and include the potential impact of an application ,
86 KDD 96
The technical criteria absence of simpler alternative solutions , and strong organizational support for using technology . For applications dealing with personal data one should also consider the privacy/legal issues ( Piatetsky Shapiro 1995 ) . include considerations such as the availability of sufficient data ( cases ) . In general , the more fields there are and the more complex the patterns being sought , the more data are needed . However , strong prior knowledge ( see below ) can reduce the number of needed cases significantly . Another consideration is the relevance of attributes . It is important to have data attributes relevant to the discovery task : no amount of data will allow prediction based on attributes that do not capture the required information . Furthermore , low noise levels ( few data errors ) is another consideration . High amounts of noise make it hard to identify patterns unless a large number of cases can mitigate random noise and help clarify the aggregate patterns . Changing and time oriented data , while making the application development more difficult , makes it potentially nmch more useful , since it is easier to retrain a system than to retrain a human . Finally , and perhaps one of the most important considerations is prior knowledge . It is very useful to know something about the domain what are the important fields , what are the likely relationships , what is the user utility function , what patterns are already known , and so forth .
6.1
Research and Application
Challenges challenges for KDD . This list and We outline some of the current primary researcil application is by no means exhaustive and is intended to give the reader a feel for the types of problems that KDD practitioners wrestle with . Larger databases : Databases with hundreds of fields and tables , millions of records , and multigigabyte size are quite commonplace , and terabyte ( 1019 bytes ) databases are beginning to appear . Methods for dealing with large data volumes include more algorithms ( Agrawal et al . 1996 ) , sampling , efficient approximation methods , and massively parallel processing ( Holsheimer et al . 1996 ) . there often a High dimensionality : very large nmnber of records in the database , but there can also be a very large number of fields ( attributes , variables ) so that the dimensionality of the problem is high . A high dimensional data set creates problems in terms of increasing the size of the search space for in a combinatorially explosive manmodel induction it increases the chances that a data ner . In addition , mining algorithm will find spurious patterns that are not valid in general . Approaches to this problem in
Not only is attempts at KDD . clude methods to reduce the effective dimensionality of the problem and the use of prior knowledge to identify irrelevant variables . Overfitting : When the algorithm searches for the best parameters for one particular model using a limited set of data , it may model not only the general patterns in the data but also any noise specific to that data set , resulting in poor performance of the model on test regdata . Possible solutions include cross validation , ularization , and other sophisticated statistical strategies . Assessing statistical significance : A problem ( related to overfitting ) occurs when the system is searching over many possible models . For example , if a system tests N models at the 0.001 significance level , then on average , with purely random data , N/10O0 of these models will be accepted as significant . This point is frequently missed by many initial One way to deal with this problem is to use methods which adjust the test statistic as a function of the search , eg , Bonferroni adjustments for independent tests , or randomization testing . Changing data and knowledge : Rapidly changing ( non stationary ) data may make previously discovered patterns invalid . In addition , the variables measured in a given application database may be modified , deleted , or augmented with new measurements over time . Possible solutions include incremental methods for updating the patterns and treating change as an opportunity for discovery by using it to cue the search for patterns of change only ( Matheus , Piatetsky Shapiro , and McNeill 1996 ) . See also ( Mannila , Toivonen , & Verkamo 1995 ; Agrawal & Psaila 1995 ) . Missing and noisy data : This problem is especially acute in business databases . US census data reportedly has error rates of up to 20 % . Important attributes may be missing if the database was not designed with discovery in mind . Possible solutions include more sophisticated statistical strategies to identify hidden variables and dependencies ( Heckerman 1996 ; Smyth et al . 1996 ) . Complex relationships Hierarchically structured attributes or values , relations between attributes , for representing database will require algorithms that can effectively utilize such information . Historically , data mining algorithms have been developed for simple attributevalue records , although new techniques for deriving relations between variables are being developed ( Djoko , Cook , & Holder 1995 ; Dzeroski 1996 ) . Understandability cations and more sophisticated means knowledge about the contents of a it is important to make the discoveries more between fields :
In many appli of patterns : include and prior inter strategies interaction representations knowledgo . : Many
( Buntine 1996 ; Heckerman understandable by humans . Possible solutions graphical 1996 ) , rule structuring , natural language generation , and techniques for visualization of data and knowledge . Rule refinement ( eg Major & Mangano 1995 ) can be used to address a related problem : the discovered knowledge may be implicitly or explicitly redundant . User current KDD methods and tools are not truly incorporate prior knowledge active and cannot easily about a problem except in simple ways . The use of domain knowledge is important in all of the steps of the KDD process as outlined in Section 4 . Bayesian approaches ( eg Cheeseman 1990 ) use prior probabilities over data and distributions as one form of encoding prior knowledge . Others employ deductive database capabilities to discover knowledge that is then used to guide the data mining search ( eg Simoudis et al . 1995 ) . Integration discovery system may not be very useful . Typical integration issues include integration with a DBMS ( eg via a query interface ) , integration with spreadsheets and visualization tools , and accommodating real time sensor readings . Examples of integrated KDD systems are described by Simoudis , Livezey , and Kerber ( 1995 ) , and Stolorz et al ( 1995 ) . systems : A stand alone with other
7
Concluding
Remarks of basic notions We have presented some definitions in the KDD field . A primary aim is to clarify the relation between knowledge discovery and data mining . We provided an overview of the KDD process and basic data mining methods . Given the broad spectrum of data mining methods and algorithms , our brief overview is inevitably limited in scope : there are many data mining techniques , particularly specialized methtypes of data and domains . Although ods for particular various algorithms and applications may appear quite different on the surface , it is not uncommon to find that they share many common components . Understanding data mining and model induction at this component level clarifies the task of any data mining algorithm and makes it easier for the user to understand its overto the KDD process . all contribution and applicability towards a common
This paper represents a step framework that we hope will ultimately provide a unifying vision of the common overall goals and methods used in KDD . We hope this will eventually lead to a better understanding of the variety of approaches in this multi disciplinary field and how they fit together .
Data Mining General Overview 87
Mannila , tt . , Toivonen , H . and Verkamo , AI 1995 . Discovering Frequent Episodes in Sequences , In Proceedings of KDD 95 : First International Con]erence on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pp . 210 215 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . Matheus , C . , Piatetsky Shapiro , 1996 . Selecting and Reporting What is Interesting : KEFIR Application Cambridge , MA : AAAI/MIT Press , Piatetsky Shapiro , G . 1991 . Knowledge Discovery in Ileal Databases , AI Magazine , Winter 1991 .
G . , and McNeill , D . The in AKDDM , to Healthcare Data , 495 516 . of Deviations .
In Proceedings of KDD g4 .
G . , Matheus , C . 1994 . The Inter
Piatetsky Shapiro , estingness Fayyad , U . M . and Uthurusamy , R . , ( eds. ) , AAAI Press report WS 03 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . Piatetsky Shapiro , G . 1995 . Knowledge Discovery in Personal Data vs . Privacy a Mini symposium . IEEE Expert , April . Piatetsky Shapiro , G . , Brachman , It . , Khabaza , T . , Kloesgen , W . , and Simoudis , E . , 1996 . An Overview of in Developing Industrial Data Mining and KnowlIssues edge Discovery Applications , In Proceedings of KDD 96 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . Silberschatz , A . and Tuzhilin , A . 1995 . On Subjective in Knowledge Discovery . In Measures of lnterestingness Proceedings of KDD 95 : First International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pp . 275 281 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press .
Simoudis , E . , Livezey , B . , and Kerber , R . 1995 . Using Recon for Data Cleaning , In Proceedings of KDD.95 : First hdernational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pp . 275 281 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . Smyth , P . , Burl , M . , Fayyad , U . and Perona , P . 1996 . Modeling Subjective Uncertainty in Image Annotation , in AKDDM , AAAI/MIT Press , 517 5,10 . Stolorz , P . et al . 1995 . Fast Spatio Temporal Data Mining of Large Geophysical Data.sets , In Proceedings of KDD95 : First covery and Data Mining , pp . 300 305 , AAAI Press .
International Conference on Knowledge Dis
Acknowledgments
We thank KDD 96 referees ideas .
Sam Uthurusamy , for their
Ron Brachman , suggestions valuable and and
Bibliography
307 328 .
59 82 . and Computing , in practice . Statistics in AKDDM , AAAI/MIT Press , in A KDDM , AAAI/MIT Press , 37 58 . of in Databases : A Human Centered
Agrawal , Ft . and Psaila , G . 1995 . Active Data Mining , In Proceedings of KDD 95 : First International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , pp . 3 8 , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . Agrawal~ R.~ Mannila , H . , Srikant , Ft . , Toivonen , H . , and Verkamo , I . 1996 . Fast Discovery of Association Rules , in AKDDM , AAAI/MIT Press , Brachman , R . and Anand , T . 1996 . The Process Knowledge Discovery Approach , Brodley , C . E . , and Smyth , P . 1996 Applying classification algorithms to appear . Buntine , W . 1996 . Graphical Models for Discovering Knowledge , Cheeseman , P . 1990 . On Finding the Most Probable Model . In Computational Models o ] Scientific Discovery and Theory Formation , Shrager , J . and Langley P . ( eds ) . Los Gatos , CA : Morgan Kaufinann , 73 95 . Codd , EF 1993 . Providing OLAP ( On line Analytical Processing ) to User Analysts : An IT Mandate . EF Codd and Associates . Djoko , S . , Cook , D . , and Holder , I , . 1995 . Analyzing the Benefits of Domain Knowledge in Substructure Discovery , in Proceedings o ] KDD 95 : First h~ternational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , Menlo Park , CA : The AAAI Press . Dzeroski , S . 1996 . for Knowledge Discovery AAAI/MIT Press . Fayyad , U . M . , G . Piatetsky Shapiro , P . Smyth , and Ft . Uthurusamy , 1996 . Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ,
Inductive Logic Programming
( AKDDM ) , AAAI/MIT Press . in Databases , in A KDDM ,
Fayyad , UM , Haussler , D . and Stolorz , Z . 1996 . KDD for Science Data Analysis ; Issues and Examples . Proc . 2nd Int . Conj . on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ( KDD 96 ) , Menlo Park , CA : AAAI Press . questions . J .
F’ayyad , UM , Piatetsky Shapiro , in ilKDDM , AAAI/MIT Press , 273 306 . in AI(DDM , AAAI/MIT Press , pp . 1 30 .
G . , and Smyth , P . 1996 . From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery : An Overview , Hand , D . J . 1994 . Deconstructing statistical Royal . Slat . Soc . A , 317 356 . Ileckerman , D . 1996 . Bayesian Networks for Knowledge Discovery , Holsheimer , M . , Kersten , M.L , Mannila , H . , and Toivonan , H . 1996 . Data Surveyor : Searching the Nuggets in Parallel , Langley , P . and Simon , H . A . 1995 . Applications of machine learn’ng and rule induction . Communications o ] the A CM , 38 , 55 64 . Major , J . and Mangano , J . 1995 . Selecting among Rules Induced fi’om a Hurricance Database . Journal of h~telligent
InJormation Systems 4(1):29 52 . in AKDDM , AAAI/MIT Press .
88
KDD 96
